ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, other representatives of the government, representatives of the media! We continue with the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. And before we proceed, I would ask you to listen to me to announce the sad news that you all know, of course. On 7 December this year, Alojz Metelko, a delegate of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia died during the mandate period 1990/1992 and a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia during the mandate period 1992/1996. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. [[...]] [[One minute's silence.]] Thank you very much. [[...]] I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Member and Members: Stanislav Brenčič by 2 p.m., Geza Juban, mag. Vasja Klavora, Darja Lavtišar Bebler from 15:00 on, Franz Pukšič, Dr Mitja Slavinec until 13:00 and Davorin Terčon from 15:00 on. Yesterday we are finished with the general part of the budget, and today we are continuing to address the specific part of the SUPPLEMENTAL PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET, and before we go after the individual budget consumers and amendments, we have the right to discuss the specific work as a whole in the introduction to the Rules of Procedure. That's why I'm asking if anyone wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Then it is the budget user, the Nationality Office, that we have the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' parliamentary group on the sub-programme "support to nationalities". Anybody want a word? Mr. Battelli. Mrs. Possoncheva first. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Battelli. Maybe it'd be good if you could get along. Mr. Battelli, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u2	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be very brief. This is an amendment, which is in fact a harmonisation of the funds for co-financing of the RTV programmes of both nationalities for 2006, with the implementation for 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u3	Please, listen. Mrs. Possonchev.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I would only add to this so much that I am glad that this hard heart of the Members is not so hard, sometimes they are also kind, here I am thinking of the Committee on Finance, and I hope that you will support this too.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? So no. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group on their behalf? No, no, no. We're voting. Thank you very much. 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 49 and 3 against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] Which means that this amendment was adopted. The next item is the new budget user service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. We have the amendment of several parliamentary groups on the sub-programme of economic and development policy. To make our work easier, it may not be too difficult to go to the other side of our review of the amendments. I'm asking, who wants a word? Nobody. Who wants to explain the voice? Mag. Squeak. On behalf of the Group or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u6	On behalf of the parliamentary group, of course, I will say that we will not support this amendment, because it is not about not opposing the Prime Minister to appoint a new Minister for the monitoring and implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, but because, of course, we believe that this gentleman is not yet formally appointed, he will be appointed next week and we are actually doing something that is also problematic in some other amendments, we are giving money for something that has not yet been covered in the national assembly. That's one thing. The second thing that matters. In the work of the Reform Committee and in the first explanations of the Government, in particular in terms of savings, it was said that part of the Committee would cost nothing, that the funds would also be provided on those items which, of course, mean rational business, which means that, in order to create the work of this Office, this service would in fact have to redistribute funds from wage items in those departments whose work this new service will carry out, but the amendment set up by the parliamentary groups would be quite contrary to that. Money is taken from damages under court decisions for 171 million and then in today's newspaper we read that the Ministry of Finance of this money will not miss 171 million in 2006 and some 150, 160 million in 2007. I wonder what kind of planning this is, if you can't just miss 350 million on damages based on court rulings. It is also interesting to see a reduction in the law on denationalisation, where the work of the competent Ministry of Justice or of the Ministry of Justice is concerned, in this case it is the Ministry of Finance. However, it is substantive to ensure that the money is provided for denationalisation to take place as soon as possible. We do not understand how the government has planned, if we can suddenly find out with the amendment of the ruling coalition that 300 million is too much and we can put them on some service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to implement the development strategy. Last thought, we have written some strategies in Slovenia in the past 10 years, we have entered the European Union, and I do not recall having any service to monitor the implementation of Slovenia's entry into the European Union strategy, but have done so by competent authorities, departments, in accordance with constitutional competences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic, also on behalf of the Member of Parliament [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u8	I'll do it on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u9	Then I'll just ask again if anyone else wants to do it on behalf of the Member of Parliament? [[No, no, ……]] Well, on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment for a simple reason, because between the 250 amendments there are at least 30% of those whose funds are much more needed, much better to put them where they are needed, between Slovenians and Slovenians. At least 25%, a job falls out of the air, gets 150, 160 million, and, just for example, a stem hospital "stresses" this state council for seven years. He takes, he takes, he takes, and finally he's on the budget. But the patients in the O.R. are walking down the stairs, the ones who can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Anyone else? If not, we vote. There were 59 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 14. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] Which means the amendment was adopted. Let's move on to the end of the other side. Budget user of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. Two amendments under the sub-programme support to the Slovaks in place and abroad. I am putting both amendments to the debate, but of course we will vote separately. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I have tabled an amendment to the 2006 budget to reintroduce or re-enter the budget item of the Slovenian Emigrant Mother. In particular, since 1997, when I participate in the adoption of budgets, the Slovenian evictive mother, the evict society Slovenia in the world and the Slovenian World Congress have been special items in the state budget. This time the government deleted this and instead of these three budget users gave one item: "civil society in Slovenia". Although she listed the three budget consumers in the round and added Rafael's company, I do not have much confidence in the operators of this budget that the funds will actually be distributed as they would have deserved. In fact, in the last year, the Slovenian government almost managed to shut down or severely restrict the functioning of the Slovenian evictive matrix, although we had a budget adopted in 2005, the government, with a special decision, reduced the funds for the operation of the Slovenian evict queen from 34 million to 21 million tolars. And instead of the Slovenian evict queen and other companies being financed after 12 in the first months of the year, according to the 2005 budget, the government of Slovenia has significantly reduced its funds. The next step was followed by the fact that this item was also deleted from the budget in the 2006 budget. I have a feeling that this is about discrimination against this society, which was established in 1951 and probably also because the whole period in the previous system worked very well, probably not according to the measure of the new government. Let me say that this company was founded by Slovenian writer Tone Seliškar in 1951 and that Tomo Brejc has been in the narrowest management of the Slovenian expatriate mother since the beginning. Let me tell you about those of you who do not know, the father of our European Member, Michael Brejc, but this is just in the round. These funds, which are now in this bag called civil society in Slovenia, amounting to 70 million for four societies, will certainly not be distributed in the same way as they should be in practice in this last year. That this is how we are convinced by the next measure taken by the government. In fact, Slovenian expatriate queens have withdrawn funds to issue a central magazine for Slovenes around the world, i.e. Slovenian expatriate queen for over 50 years has been publishing the National Gruda and then in the last period also a magazine, which is her successor, Slovenia. In a special invitation to tender, Slovenian expatriate queen, despite extremely good references and several half-century experiences in this area, failed in the invitation to tender. The invitation to tender was opened mainly by the anonymous publishing company Children d.o.o., which has no references in this area. As an interesting thing to say, this invitation even turned out to be the family label, so I really don't know why it happened. In particular, the Secretary of State for Slovenians, both in place and worldwide, signed this treaty just the day before his resolution, so that it puts the whole thing in a special situation. With this signature is the label Children d.o.o. for 5 years, he received more than 200 million tolars, and this was another blow for the Slovenian expatriate queen, who also published this magazine for so long. So, I propose, fellow Members of the Council, that you support this amendment of ours, that the Slovenian expatriate queen be reintroduced into the state budget as a special item. It is not about taking these funds away from anyone, as is the case with other amendments, but it is about redistribution within the heading - civil society in Slovenia, where a special budget item would also have a Slovenian expatriate queen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Would anyone else like to discuss it? Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I would like to discuss both amendments to this budgetary user. First of all, I would like to express my support for the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, just explained by my colleague Bevk. I think that the area of Slovenians around the world is one of those where the exchange of power feels very much, and where the policy of our-yours begins to be implemented. A typical example is this case of the Slovenian expatriate matrix, which was once a self-consumer of the budget, and is now dismissed as such. So that we don't discredit her as much as possible, but minimize her activity. It is that these societies that deal with Slovenians around the world, or organizations, have a quiet omen more left, more right, depending on who existed in the former system and who did not exist at that time. Even though he was doing well. Although I must say that it is with the Slovenian expatriate matrix that I also admit that it is in the past with its organisation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u15	Thank you so much for warning others, I'm obviously a failure myself. I'm asking for a little silence, Mr. Terchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u16	So, in recent years, I've helped myself a little bit, and I'm going to say that she's not that familiar with her organization. However, I think that these organisations dealing with the activity of the Slovenes around the world should be equal in particular here. Because if we look at the way we finance, we're always seeing a very big drought again and again to some people, I'm going to say to organizations with a certain omen, and that's not fair, that's not right. Policy is being introduced in, that is, the area of Slovenians around the world, precisely in an area where we all claim in one voice that this is a national interest and that this should not be the case. Secondly, I would ask for support, if that makes any sense, to the second amendment tabled by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. It is the area of constitutional obligations, the financing of the constitutional obligations of Slovenians around the world, both foreign nationals and expatriates. So if we look at the index itself in the proposed budget, we will find that according to the indexation of the rest of the budget, the index is quite decent. However, if we go to dissect items, we will find that it is indexed or increased mainly by bureaucracy in Slovenia, not by the activity of Slovenians in place or around the world. So, it's about indexing the office's reinforcements. Maybe it's because they've done so much shame in the past year that it's going to be hard to fix them now. In fact, they have changed the way in which the funding of the foreigners is financed, reduced the role of roof organisations and this is completely unnecessary, because the Slovenians have agreed instead on how they will be financed through roof organisations, and this office has somehow broken down, reduced funding for the umbrella organisations and put itself in an awkward position. These changes and the situation in the office also indicate this situation. I must say that one of the important coalition commitments, which has also been recorded in the new government's coalition treaty, is concern for our fellow citizens abroad. However, developments in the Office and also in funding do not follow. As I said, the increased item is decent, but it is increased by bureaucracy in Slovenia, not for the activity of Slovenians around the world. And that is why we also propose in our amendment to reduce the bureaucratic part within the global item, thus reducing the funding of the office itself and making funds available for the activities of foreigners, Slovenians around the world. The arguments are certainly valid, the question is how many you hear. I hope you'll listen anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Yes, Mr. Sok, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Given that it is constantly repeated in public, how many amendments the opposition has tabled, and that the ruling coalition has somehow rejected all the amendments, or as you say, as a bulldozer has hit, even though those of us who have been in this house for a long time know how it was in the ancient days, but still there is something that needs to be said. If anyone, then in New Slovenia we are certainly interested in increasing funds for Slovenians around the world. And since I have budget lines before me, I would like to say why we will not support this amendment in New Slovenia. See, the estimated implementation for 2006 is slightly over 2 billion and 16 million for the government office for Slovenians in place and around the world. This item increases by almost 19%, to 2 billion 400 million, with an additional draft budget for 2006. I think this is going on, given our options, given what the finance minister always says, that we are limited to finance and that we must meet the convergence criteria and, above all, look to follow the euro's takeover from 1.1.2007, that this item is in fact a huge increase, and that, despite all these expectations and the pleas made by the opposition, there is no need to increase these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I don't think that's true if colleague Sok had a 2005 budget, I'd see where this increase is going in particular. This increase is mainly about the functioning of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians, both in place and worldwide, for new jobs, but not for the financing of foreign organisations and evicted societies. These funds, however, are practically at the same level as before. It is said that money is increasing mainly for administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u22	Dear President! I'm calling because apparently one is not enough for them to understand. Now Mr Bevk has repeated what I have said, so I will repeat it three times. I said that the index is decent to increase, Comrade Sok, but that you give bureaucracy in Slovenia, not to foreigners or displaced persons. And let's read it again, more clearly, I don't think it can be and please don't cheat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I believe that a fellow opposition species recognise that the increase in funding index for the Office for Slovenians around the world and that they forget that the way in which organisations have been financed in place has been changed and that project funding is involved and that within this organisation can be fought by good projects, that it is not yet determined who will receive this money, this means, but that it is actually possible to run with good projects also for good funds, extensive resources. And you're kind of blurring out the situation when there's actually enough money on the table, but at the same time, you're saying that some people don't get it. I kind of agree that what my colleague Pukšič introduced when he was there that quality decides that this is the right criterion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. And then Mr. Tarchoon, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u26	This budget will obviously do so. One amendment of the coalition was tabled. With a good impression the amendment for nationality is voted out to show its width and the second will be rejected, that is now more or less clear to me. I would just like to warn you that while we were in position, there was also some government discipline, that most of the amendments were not accepted, that is a fact, but we were able to at least table amendments and when even with the help of the opposition to vote. Now, I'd say military discipline or discipline is very consistent, and that's how it's going to be, obviously. Comrade Jerovšek, I also miss that there is no Mr Pukšič here because you are talking about programme funding, it is not programme funding. See, the system funding was that a minority as an entity itself agreed on how it would be financed under the options it had. This has now collapsed and is talking about software funding, which basically means that each of the minorities, depending on who likes them and where they belong, will come to their home in Slovenia and ask for money and then here will be given money, who is more ours, who is more yours, and this is for you program funding. Otherwise, it would be good for Mr Puksic to be here, too, to say how he was at the office and what relations he had with Minister Rupl and why no one invited anyone abroad when he went, etc., that would also be very welcome at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u28	I'd say the Germans and the Slovenians are all ours. Unfortunately, then, if you have not established this in the past, you will have to explain it again. They are all ours, they are all Slovenians, and it is certain that certain repatriation funds must also be allocated as we speak about them. I don't know if you're in pain, but the fact is that the direction of this ruling coalition is also in this segment. As regards constitutional obligations, support for indigenous Slovenian national communities in substitution. See, the government has increased these funds by 195 million in the supplementary proposal and currently amount to 1 billion 882 million, never so high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, then Mr Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much, again. I do not need instructions, Comrade Terchoon, as to how the budget has been adopted in the past, which amendments have been successful, but in this respect I must say, of course, that Comrade Terchoon here cites experience in the old rules of procedure. If we hadn't made such a "disaster" with this rule of procedure when you accepted it, then I would probably have made an amendment today, or without hope of victory, but as a warning to the government, and a signal for the coming years. That's how I used to work, and I would do it today. This is no longer a possibility today. And within the Group of Members, it shall be assessed whether it is possible to carry out this task or not. That's what you wanted. That's what happened. You have taken this option from the Members with the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to mention these debates, despite the fact that in the previous Rules of Procedure the opposition amendments did not go as well. I haven't had this luck in eight years to make an amendment to the budget through, so statistics are, as far as this is concerned, quite clear. With regard to software funding, it is the same as it used to be a little better. You have to have a little historical memory here, too, and not mention facts that don't hold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u31	Mr. Bevk, then Mr. Tarchon.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This government will succeed something that has not yet been succeeded, even though they have tried. It will succeed in removing 3 companies from the state budget as independent budget consumers: Slovenian evictive matrix, evictive society Slovenia in the world and the World Slovenian Congress. The previous governments have also tried to make one bag out of these societies so that they can then finance it by their taste, and we have been on the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world, which is the only committee of the National Assembly, which is not made up according to the outcome of the national elections, but all parliamentary parties have equal representation. That is why we have unanimously opposed the governments of that time, and we have also tried now, and we have failed because discipline in this coalition is too great. This government will delete these three companies from the 2006 and 2007 budgets and the Secretary of State, or one that will carry out the budget according to its taste, and you know how this coalition tastes, finances these three societies and will certainly, given the last year of experience we have with the financing of the Slovenian expatriation matrix, experience the greatest discrimination. Don't stop me from saying that's not true and that's not gonna happen. One year from now, when we look at the realisation of the budget of these two societies, I will prove to you with numbers that I was right. But if I'm wrong, then I'll apologize. But I believe it will be as I now say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I'm asking nicely for a little more peace in the hall. And try to avoid dialogue and controversy with each other, but discuss amendments. Thank you very much in advance for understanding. But Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. I agree with those who say that this government will succeed in what has not yet been done. In fact, if I look at the proposal for realisation and, of course, the funds planned, then I can find that, say, at the Government Office for Slovenians in place and around the world, the index of increase is almost 19%. As long as I'm here in Parliament, and I've been for a while, I don't remember ever having an index on this item 19%. It's true, you're right, it hasn't worked for any government yet, but that's positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Target. Please, no intermediate phone calls. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u36	What Mr Petan invented, and now I don't understand it anymore. We're here, gentlemen, half an hour, telling you the increase is 19%, I don't have to say. I said it was an increase of 19%, but that goes to the office, not the activity of Slovenians around the world. That's what I said in the first sentence. What do you need three quarters of an hour to understand one sentence? I really don't get it. Is half an hour too short? Now, as far as your understanding of how you feel about the Slovenians around the world is concerned, we will also see one story as we proceed with the law as you look at it here. I say you look about that, that only one who is pure-blooded Slovenian, but pure-blooded yours, not only a pure-blooded Slovenian, that he is acceptable to you and he is receiving your mercy. What Comrade Bevk said to prove to you with the numbers, this is already happening, this can be proved by numbers today. Otherwise, as far as the rules of procedure is concerned, Comrade Jerovšek. If you do not know what options the Member has, we will help you here, come, because you obviously have problems with understanding, we will show you, you will see that we will prove that you have these options. However, the Rules of Procedure would not have been adopted if you had not agreed to do so. Since we know it's a two-thirds majority and we couldn't take it on our own at the time, you put your vote together. And this rules of procedure have been in force for some time now, not this year's first year to follow them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u37	Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u38	Procedurally, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u40	The President, you have warned Members not to embalm. I do not find any indication in the Rules of Procedure that there is no need to be politicised during the discussion of the budget. It needs to be polished. Members should be warned, however, that on page 329. The rapporteur for the DZ writes very clearly what he said, Mr Tarchon. It will be for the Slovenians, but five and a half million will be spent on car purchases, 2.8 million to buy computers at the office and 5 million to work abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. My duty as chairman is, of course, to ensure that only the subject matter is discussed. And there are two amendments to the debate. The controversy is yes, Mr. Squeakl, but not that it is connected to a person, or "ad personam", to be "ad rem", to be discussed only about the matter, not about the persons. Would anyone else like to discuss it? Mr. Barovich, Mr. Skolch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much. So, basically, I would try to understand these things that the coalition has done in this area, extremely well-intentionedly. This increase in resources for the Office and bureaucracy is likely to be necessary in order to compensate for the damage that the former Secretary for Slovenia has already done to a large extent to this area. Mr Pukšič has indeed succeeded in bringing this policy to that point, which was practically the lowest point of understanding, who deserves it and why it deserves it. It is good that he has resigned, and I hope that this increase in resources means an attempt at human resources rehabilitation in this area, and that it will certainly take more than one person to make things better. As far as Mr Jerovsk is concerned, I must say that I feel deeply sorry for him. I don't think he's cheating, but he's having a really hard time understanding our rules of procedure and our work, and if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u43	Mr. Skull, we said not about people, please, because we know where this is going.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u44	No, we are talking about Mr Jerovsk's problems with the procedure, not with him, but with him, more could be said about him. We're fellow Members, I've been here since 1990, and I've been willing to help everyone every time if he didn't stay in this house, including him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. So, Mr. Jerovšek. Again, let us also help ourselves to avoid discussing each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I am very grateful to the speaker that the post-festum expresses great concern for my problems, but I in particular had problems before, in the opposition. And at the time, I did not receive such understanding from my colleague Školč and his colleagues. I have already said today that, in this same debate, when we have formally tabled amendments and were Jerovšk's amendments to the budget, I have not experienced this support and this understanding of Mr Školč, so that now crocodiles have tears to pour on me seems a little strange. At the same time, I must say that unfortunately, my colleague Puksic is not here today and I do not intend to be his lawyer, but I do not agree with his thesis that colleague Puksič has been working poorly at the Office for Slovenians around the world and in place, on the contrary. This year, I also took part in several events organized by Slovenians in place, in the Chair of the Committee on Foreign Policy, 14 days ago in Celovac, in a conference of a single list and also in a substitute, in Italy - I don't know, we were never together by accident with my colleague Školč – but there I came across the Secretary of State's extraordinary commendations in the Office for Slovenians around the world. So, too, from this point of view, it grieves me that Mr Školč, who comes from this edge of the country - I hope he is still representing the interests of those places - that he does not know the mood even 5 kilometres across the border, and that he is so negative about a fellow Member who has also radiated a lot of energy in his previous post. I think, if anything, we can either admit to our colleague or we have to admit to my colleague Puksic, we have to admit to him that he has been successful as mayor, that he has been successful as a Member, and that he has been successful as Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Now he has the word, Mr. Skolč.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I would not burden everyone with what was happening at the time when we were together with Mr Jerovsk's Member, in different positions, but I find that he is also forgetful. That's a special problem. There were many things in which, even to the amazement of my colleagues, I attracted the opposition. I will provide you, Mr Jerovšek, with a magnetogram so that you do not continue to laugh here with this forgetfulness.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I will read the last sentence of the second paragraph of Article 75 in order to refresh my memory and magnetogram. The speaker can only talk about a question that is on the agenda and I have a feeling that we are talking about many things that are not on the agenda. Now he has the word, Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u50	Mr. President! I think that what you said or vice president that this is perfectly correct, I would say, respected colleagues and colleagues, we keep the level of the National Assembly, and we're thinking about that Latin river that says "esto bonus ssi non potes esse perituus" which means, "be at least good if you can't be smart."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Jerovšek also confused Celovec and Borovlje. We really drove up and back at night, and maybe he didn't see exactly where we were. That's enough to refresh your memory. But there's something I'd like to say when my friend Pukšič is so defensive. Pukšič is our respected fellow Member, one of the 14 state secretaries who has changed in this place, and I do not think that this is serious, because he has clearly followed the tradition of the previous 13 secretaries who have not held back for more than half a year in this place. However, there is something very wrong with the status of this office and the fact that we do not have an accomplice on this side at all. Which of the ministers and secretaries of state can even be involved? This budgetary consumer has no interlocutor, with us here, where there are seats for ministers and secretaries of state. The Secretary of State for Slovenians in place and around the world must not even sit at government meetings, obviously not sitting here in the National Assembly. And it's been a while since the status of the Slovenian office in place and around the world has been arranged not to be the last child in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Given the widespread volunteerism and the gulf, I would also warn you that the weekend will only formally start tonight. Now we've got a few more hours to work. Anyone else want a word? We're on page 2 of the 74s. [[No, no, ……]] Then we vote first on the amendment of the Social Democrats and then on the amendment of the LDS. Mr. Horvath, explanation of voice. In your own name? All right, parliamentary groups. The word is yours. About the first amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u54	Yeah. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Members, fellow Members, distinguished ministers, other representatives of the government! The New Slovenia Group will not support this amendment. We are pleased that the government has increased this item as many times as we have seen today. I'm sure we'd be most pleased if this item were 24 billion, not 2.4 billion, but we know it's just not going to work. We also believe in the principle of government when it composed and interpreted the budget and said that the budget would be project oriented. Whoever has better projects, who does better projects, will get more money. As for our correct orientations and our proper relationship, our heart relationship with the Slovenians in place and around the world, I am sure that this relationship is heartwarming because we are so few and we are very fond of every Slovenian in the world - I am giving one initiative, although business, I apologize, it does not belong to this place, Members and Members of Parliament, I am sure, distinguished people, and we can also make a lot of money "serve" in Slovenia. Let's put this money together, let's give it, let's finance it, let's help with projects that will be good for us, especially for Slovenians in place and around the world. I have one recipe, I have two experiences, and there's something I can do to help. In 2000 and last year, I brought 40 pupils and teachers of the Slovenian school from Hamilton to a three-week tour of Slovenia, and if you knock on the right door of our companies, you will see that you will get an additional, maybe 2.4 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u56	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I will support both amendments, because they are focused on activity, what Slovenians are supposed to do in place and around the world. It's important stuff. I have a slightly different experience on these visits than Mr Jerovšek. However, I believe that Mr Pukšič has done a good job as he was set up as a mineral and has blown up the harmony and coherence of the operation of the umbrella organisations, particularly in Italy. Of course, sharing Slovenians is very bad, there are few of us anyway, and sharing them according to the criteria that speak about everything else but about Slovenia is in some ways distasteful. Both amendments are geared towards their activities, to the preservation of Slovenia. We'll also talk about Korotan's home later, and there'll probably have to be the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I'm a magician. I'm sorry if she's already taken the floor, but I hope there's nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'm calling to express my support for the two amendments. I am convinced that there is a need to provide permanent funding for the activity, but that any additional money that would support a concrete, one-off activity is welcome and such initiatives to raise additional funds are welcome, but it is very important, I stress, to provide permanent sources of funding. And since it has recently been possible to hear a debate on the so-called civil society, although I am not by nature an unbeliever Tomaž, it still seems to me that it is good that, as a special item, the Slovenian expatriate mother is named, and is thus provided with a firm place in the budget and also provided with solid financial resources. The experience with the financing of the Gruda, which plays an extremely important role, in view of the experience we have with the knowledge of Slovenians in the world in the second and third generations, and is any activity that helps to preserve the Slovenian language between our immigrants and foreigners, should be done by those who are most skilled. If the chosen publisher knows that, we'll have a chance to see it in a short time. But once again, support goes to activities, not to what might be hidden in a beautiful growth index and was explained what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon, on my behalf, I presume?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u60	Yeah, on my own. So, I will support both amendments and also appeal to colleagues and colleagues to do so. At the first amendment, I repeat, it is only about writing down what everyone promises will happen, and we know that it will not happen, because the matter is hiding behind software funding, and the program funding will be currencyised, and eventually someone will say that someone has a better program and this better program will be, I suppose, who has already. So, it is about ensuring the continued funding of organisations dealing with the problem of Slovenians, particularly in emigration in this case, and it is about transparent financing. In the second amendment, as I have said before, I repeat, it is the financing of the direct programme, what is the content, not what is essentially bureaucracy in relation to the implementation of the programme. And given the complications and the misunderstandings of this, I would say that it would be a good idea to introduce a budget reading course and also a hearing course for the interlocutors, because I simply cannot understand that so much time cannot be told one simple thing. Certainly, I will support both amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u61	Thank you. And Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I will support both amendments, but I propose that we, colleagues and colleagues, calm down in two minutes, forget what has happened in recent years and vote for these two amendments. We'll do a good job for the Slovenians around the world and the foreigners.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We're voting on the first amendment. Thank you very much. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment. There are 64 Members and Members present, 25 votes against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] This amendment is not accepted either. We continue on page 4, with the budgetary user of the police. The sub-programmes "internal security and criminal activity". We have a single amendment tabled by the LDS. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Among the priorities of the Ministry of the Interior are the commitments related to the establishment of the so-called Schengen border, including the repression and prevention of crime. The latter was also highlighted by the Ministry in a motion for a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime. Despite the above facts and the findings of the resolution that crime cannot be completely suppressed, but with appropriate policies and programmes to a greater or lesser extent, the Ministry has allocated resources in the 2006 and 2007 budgets under the Crime Programme only for the purchase of technical resources and consumer material for the operation of the Centre for Criminal Investigations, the purchase of special equipment for the execution of operational police work, the cost of seized items and the establishment of conditions for the protection of witnesses, etc. We ourselves believe that, according to the findings of experts dealing with the phenomenon of crime, more resources should be allocated, particularly to the new employment and training of criminals, in order to detect, in particular, the crimes of economic crime and corruption. Given that the coalition does not have fully systemised jobs, this service should be strengthened with new staff, so we propose that the wage line be increased. In the detection of crimes and their perpetrators in the field of economic crime and corruption, it is particularly important, in addition to a good knowledge of police powers, to have greater knowledge and competence, since the investigation of these crimes is extremely difficult and requires other specialized knowledge and skills. Attention should also be given to the international exchange of experience. All right, so we propose to provide resources for additional education and training and exchange of experience, as we believe that quality regular training at home and abroad should be provided to criminal police workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Would anyone like to explain your voice? No, no, no. We're voting. I'm sorry. I'd like to ask you to react a little bit sooner than usual. Master Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u66	Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. In fact, with the support of this amendment, you will tell whether you are in favour of an investigative commission with the support of experts. You claim that in Slovenia in the past there have been a number of suspicions of damage to state property, and we have proposed an amendment to provide additional funds of 2,500 000 for the employment of economic experts to address the suspicion of property damages. What is surprising about this amendment is that we continue to have a negative position on the parent's working body, but I still understand this because the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has rejected something else, something that he knows more about through his mother. What is surprising about this proposal is that the government does not support this proposal. It is a pity that the Minister of the Interior is not with us to tell us whether this is because the government does not support him or because he himself does not want to obtain additional economic criminals, so of course we will support this amendment in the parliamentary club. On the basis of the vote, we will assess or, indeed, you are in the process of forming an investigative commission to eliminate the suspicion of damages to state property or simply to discredit the reputation of 83 Slovenian companies, but of course you are not prepared to allow detection of the suspected suspicion to be found at least comparable to the data available for other sales when selling Mercator. I am in favour of hiring economic criminals who will be able to prevent so-called crimes. If you support the amendment, this will be done, but if it does not, as you say, it was in the past and in the House of Members, we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'm still asking you to calm down a little bit, because it's barely sounding like that. First Mr. Chernač, then Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u68	Dear colleagues and colleagues! This amendment will not save anything, I think the proponents are aware of it, but I just don't understand why they insist so vehemently. Experience from the past shows that only by increasing funds can nothing be solved. The whole issue of justice was based on the fact that you wanted to solve problems of a substantive nature by increasing financial subsidies. And so it is here. It's not a problem, the police have a lot of skilled personnel, the problem is elsewhere, the problem is the way it works. As long as these trained personnel deal with matters such as - I can say a concrete case without names - the payment of a director's credit rating of 48,000 dollars at a new year and for such problems they are filing complaints, which they already know will fall in advance, because there are no legitimate elements of any crime involved in this; and until they deal with the right things, then no additional funds will help us. We can also increase budget items in such and similar areas for billions of dollars, and this will not solve anything. The amendment is weak, gives comfort to established ways of operating in the past and is therefore not well supported. However, there is a need to support substantive measures, measures that will allow a different way of doing things not only in this area but also in all others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support this amendment myself, either, because within this amendment I see some strange purposes and strange symbolism. Indeed, I am concerned about the sudden concern of some about the detection of economic crime, but for eight years also as Chairman of the Intelligence Commission, I have found that you were not willing. And now I'd like to ask myself, after this specialist training, the exchange of experience, I think -- you have some kind of program for this famous liberal academy to maybe teach some police. Maybe, but I don't trust those intentions. And I see even worse symbolism in where they would take me. In fact, the southern border control item would be reduced by 320,000 dinars. Colleagues, this is a direct call on symbolically to Croatian fishermen to flood the Bay of Piran, that control will no longer be there and that the border has already been removed. And next year, you'll be identical, if you accept this game, you'll be telling me that there's no Piran Bay anymore, that it's just the Saudi coast, that you've accepted Croatian opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u71	We're in the voice-explanatory phase, if anyone's forgotten. Anyone else? We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment was not accepted. We continue with the budget user of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I don't read numbers because you all have material in front of you. A sub-programme for the implementation of foreign policy, where we have two amendments. The first was submitted by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members and the second by the Group of Social Democrats. I'm putting both of them in a debate. Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. I will personally support this amendment. It is 10 million tolars, which, while taking up the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff, allocates to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs within the framework of the foreign policy implementation programme. A new item of the European Aviation Museum is opened, which is dedicated to 10,000 tolars or 10 million tolars. Why? This is one of the ways that this government in some way gives the opportunity and opportunity to the Maribor airport, which, according to domestically speaking, stagnates from day to day. With such a program and project we can revive the Maribor airport in the northeastern part of Slovenia. And that's very important to those who live there. But it's important for a number of reasons. It is important, from an economic point of view, for the airport to come to life; it is important, from a tourist point of view, for the airport to come to life; it is also important in terms of visibility. In this way, Styria, Maribor, the region of Slovenia, can also become slightly different recognition through such a program. Sadly, though, what I have to say here today is that I will also show that I have taken color photographs of state property at the Maribor airport. If you're leaving a Maribor airport today, you own sanitation, a state-owned car, with a 35-year-old I.M.V. car, you'll fill the plane. Look at that. But if you clean up your fecal water, another 35-year-old car will empty the plane and clean it up. However, in case the Brno airport closes by accident, the Prime Minister or the State or any official should land at the Maribor airport, and in winter time the question is, because of such a relationship, if he can even land as we have here and with outdated, obsolete equipment. And it would probably be the biggest shame that our Prime Minister or our country should land in Zagreb or Trieste, but we have the second largest airport in Maribor and is not qualified. And I don't blame ministers or anyone else. It is true, however, that in the last year as a Member, as Chairman of the Transport Committee, I have made great efforts to increase certain items in the field of civil aviation. I note, however, that third-rate bureaucrats have scissors and canvas in their hands that inhibit the development of both Maribor Airport and some things in Brno. Be the state's infrastructure. And in this place, I have to be honest with you, because I often play a role in saying that I am very grateful to the Ministry of the Economy, my colleague Visiak, from his previous mandate to make a great deal of effort and effort, along with his colleagues and director of the Directorate, Mr Hribar, that this Maribor Airport, which is not a Maribor airport, which is a Slovenian, which is very important for the northeastern part of Slovenia, for some other segments and destinations - make a lot of effort and effort to make it work. However, if the whole government does not join the National Assembly in addressing this problem, this is one major disaster. After all, in any other amendments I will tell you today what awaits us - those who come from Maribor - about people of some social and other transfers. Do not neglect that the Maribor airport can offer a great potential for new jobs. Today in Maribor we lose our public works, today we have as many as three or four companies going bankrupt, closing the doors of some companies that are mostly owned by foreigners due to the relocation of programmes to some other parts of Europe or countries. The programme of public works has decreased so much that unemployment in Maribor - I speak in concrete terms, according to statistics, so I am talking about the municipality - with the 16% that has been artificially reduced by 22 due to some social programmes, will jump back again and Maribor will be second or third in Slovenia after unemployment. Such a way of thinking, as it is in this and in some other amendments, is not a matter of a lot of resources, but gives the opportunity and opportunity for those who are called to do so in the country to show up and put some development programmes and projects forward and that we are trying to really get Slovenia to a European centre, or whether it is an airport. According to the equipment we have, it belongs to a museum, and the state does not have to drive it from the Maribor airport to waste, to just take care of certain facilities and to restore it. That's the image we have here today. And I will be very pleased that all Members, regardless of where they come from, will pay a little more attention to solving such a problem. Since one airport, such as the Brno airport, is important for Slovenia as a whole, the economic and tourist transfer of the north-eastern part of Slovenia, which according to statistics and the comparability of development and more coherent regional development, is very neglected, this is a very important destination. Let us therefore support such projects and also try to promote both tourism and the economy in those regions that are slightly behind the central region. That's why I'm going to support this amendment for $10 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Petan's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I will also support this amendment not so much because it is there in Styria, where I am from - I am not exactly agreeing to this view: it is all good, from where I am from - but because of something else. This programme already has almost a beard, and I remember that we have taken a decision twice on the defence committee that I led in the previous term and, as I recall, the decision of all political parties was unanimous, which were represented in the committee to support this programme. At least two then defence ministers participated in this support, as we voted in two different periods. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u75	Please be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u76	was the support of the government and also the single support of the committee, so that this programme has already been experienced, the real establishment of the airport museum has already experienced so much unanimous support. [[..]] And it's right that we're now targeting the funds, then they were really just symbolic, we were talking about one tolar, but it was about giving some incentive to set some example for some things to start going on. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u78	Thank you, Vice President. If we evaluated our discussions on the border with Croatia, we would probably get a proposal for a billion-dollar item today. You just make as many wishes as you have. I am surprised that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not, in fact, foresee any tolar or minority on the line of the state border, which relates mainly to the border with Croatia. We therefore propose that this item be increased to 50 million, which should, of course, be allocated to the preparation of professional grounds for possible arbitration or litigation and for the payment of the proceedings themselves. Of course, it can happen that Mr Solana's foretold mediation will be unsuccessful, I am afraid that this will be so that we will be spinning in a vicious circle, not least that Solana will have to host, there will be some costs, and in a few years we will find ourselves where we are today or the border issue will not be settled and we will always be looking at how to resolve this matter. I insist that, of course, we will have to use third aid, and when there is no other choice, there may also be an argument that there is no money for that. That is why I propose that this money is foreseen, not least of all not a great deal of money, given the importance of this issue, which we are always trying to resolve with resolutions, declarations, announcements of such and different zones, but the border is not being resolved, so I suggest that you listen to this amendment, colleagues, Members of Parliament, allow the foreign ministry to arm itself with some money that will co-finance the preparation of good professional bases and arguments for our demands and the procedure itself, we know, if arbitration occurs, and the dispute is not free, it is not cheap, of course, it will have to be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Barovic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u80	Thank you. I would just like to point out that the Slovenian National Party has not tabled this amendment free of charge or on its own initiative. I would like to remind my colleagues that the funds for the Maribor airport were already provided in the 2004 and 2005 budgets. Another time. I would like to point out to the National Assembly that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted a decision on support and also a decision on the formation of a group to take up the museum. Third time. To bring not only the development of a technical culture but also the development of tourism, the economy, good neighbourly cooperation and, finally, it is possible to start some decentralisation of power in our small but large country of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm absolutely asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Hwauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will support the amendment myself, as will the others, which relate to the same content. I believe that this is a good opportunity for Slovenia, even for the region, for the city of Maribor alone, as well as the municipality of Hoče Slivnice, where this airport is specifically located. However, it is a more symbolic means, which certainly allows the project to start living and that in some foreseeable time we will also reach one museum that will allow, I don't know, the opening of new jobs, also allow the development of tourism and will certainly positively affect the entire region. So, once again, I'm happy to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs already has a very small budget compared to other budget consumers. In 2000, it amounted to 15 billion and 355 million; in 2006 it decreased to 15 billion 506 million; and in 2007 it decreased to 14 billion 188 million. The trend towards falling funding for the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has followed since 2001. And when we discussed this budget on the Committee on Foreign Policy on 20 October, my colleague Aurelio Yuri and I proposed that the Committee on Foreign Policy adopt its amendment and increase funds on certain items. Why did we suggest that then? Because of what Dr. Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, said. He said, and I will quote: "I would like to draw attention to the problem of the extent of the part of the funds earmarked for the basic activity of our ministry. These funds, regardless of what I will say in the end, are still a serious problem, as their scope is decreasing more than the scale of spending in connection with the OSCE Presidency." In short, it is true that we will no longer hold the presidency in 2006, so the funds should be reduced, but what is now counted is more than what the Presidency can bear. Then he said what was the key problem with the Ministry's malnutrition. This is a regular activity of the Ministry, which is that the Ministry has not received any additional funds in the last eight years - I quote - "to open new diplomatic and consular offices and to finance these activities at the expense of its own resources." In short, by either reducing our representations or opening representations that we have not occupied and so on. Together it was in line with the guidelines - this is already a new topic, which is the Minister of Principles. It is said that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Rupel, was very, very unhappy at the Foreign Policy Committee meeting, because it is obvious that the government has decided not to adequately finance our diplomatic activities. That is why, after the Committee on Foreign Policy refused to accept its amendment, first with colleague Aurelius, we gave an amendment to the Parliament, which was rejected on the Committee on Finance, and then our Group of Members reiterated these two amendments, namely what it had previously said by colleague Juri, 50 million tolars for border funds and 100 million tolars for strengthening diplomatic and consular representations. And if you have anything to do with your parliamentary or ministerial colleague and your colleague in the coalition, give you support for these two amendments and you will allow for a little better operation in the financial sense of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the government! I'm going to support the first amendment myself, and I wouldn't state an additional fact. I think my predecessors already said that. And for practically the same reasons, I will support the amendment under number one. But I'm not going to support amendment number two for one simple reason. We have probably all looked at the proposals of the amendments both for the 2006 budget and for 2007 budget, and so on, I think that if we accepted all these amendments, we could end the Ministry of Defence and I think we would have eliminated the entire Schengen border by now. Given how much I count - about 29 billion we take to the Ministry of Defence and about 8 to 9 billion if we accept all the amendments and we take to the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. I am skeptical that this amendment by the SNS Group can at all be dealt with under this heading. Look, this amendment speaks of museum activity and it's located in the implementation of foreign policy. These things are, I will say, extremely unusual and talk more about a possible deal between the government coalition and the SNS than about really understanding how and where museums stand. I have no doubt that it is necessary to ensure, on professional grounds, the establishment of a special airport museum or a collection, however. This is mainly the subject of the law on cultural heritage and is primarily the subject of the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture is also the one that establishes museum networks, establishes them and places individual museums and collections in this structure. That is why, Mr Vice-President, I am not sure, as well as Mr Bajuk, that it is possible to vote on this amendment at all because it places an activity in a place "where it does not belong". If a museum can be formed as part of an external policy, then I must say that I misinterpret the law on cultural heritage and the museum network. I think they're some good intentions, but they're, as they like to happen, bad. I am also not sure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - I apologize - is qualified to run a museum within the framework of foreign policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Only a warning or explanation that only the proposer can correct, withdraw, amend until the end of the debate, otherwise the amendment is tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Bevk is next, and then Mr Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Comrade Bajc! Just the amendment you're going to support is taking money from the General Staff of the Slovenian Army. While there are two amendments proposed by the Social Democrats Group, they do not accept the Ministry of Defence. That is not the case with your argument, but you can still support that amendment contrary to your explanation, but if I have convinced you, you can also support our two amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I apologize to Mr Jelinčič for wanting to have a replica, but in fact it goes, whether it's a replica or another debate at the same time. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'll have a debate. Mr. Skolč, although he was Minister of Culture, he does not understand [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u93	I'm asking you to listen!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u94	Some things. [[...]] And I find it sad that the Lord does not understand, but shows his general attitude, as the Liberal Democracy did in the 12 years to some things that could have been arranged long ago, but were not regulated because of such misunderstandings, and in the end because of lack of knowledge of the Slovenian language, because it is said 'where it does not belong', not 'where it does not belong'. But let's leave the dictionary and the Slovenian alone. The fact is that Mr Školč does not "represent" the fact that museum activity can also be an international activity. For it is a European airport museum, something other than a local museum there, on Cross Street or on which street Mr. Školč already lives. I think it's a matter of course. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u95	Mr. Jelinčič, please, no personal assaults or teasing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u96	Yes, Mr. Vice President, that's the way it goes. There's no other way. Some gentlemen need to clarify things at the level they understand, otherwise we cannot do that. In short, I would like to point out that this is a very important matter in which the whole Western European Union is involved and even more so. The Assembly of the Western European Union, which, in addition to its 25 members within the European Union, also takes over the surrounding countries and cca in total. Forty countries. The matter is important and in this way we Slovenians have been given a position for this museum, on the principle of which the Council of Europe has also taken its policy of museums in general. Because they're going to start creating European museums of individual things. And just as we can be sure that the Germans would certainly not lend us Dürer's graphics to Slovenia to have them at the European Graphics Museum, the only option is actually to have an airport museum here in Europe. It was my idea, and that's why I got this thing in Europe. And I think it is reasonable and wise for Slovenia to take advantage of the fact that we are starting to work to get European funding. Those European funds that the former authorities did not know or did not want to acquire, despite the fact that they could be acquired. It is sad that this is the way we have to negotiate and respond to matters when a fellow Member puts them at the level of the agreements between the Slovenian National Party and between the ruling coalition. This is a constructive opposition, unlike their or the opposition of the Liberal Democracy, which is destructive. And I think the most important thing is that we are building something together and it is about time that even in the Liberal Democracy we realize that it is more important to build than to break it down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just for a little while, colleague Sam. On the same side where the amendment under number one, which I said I would support, it says where to go. Otherwise, it wasn't your client colleagues who wrote it down. It was the other 320 million at the southern border. And you're in amendment number two, and you're saying there's supposed to be an increase of $50 million in funds to regulate the state border. Secondly, when you reasoned or denied what I said myself, that I would support the amendment under number 1, which is taken by the military or the Ministry of Defence, I think that training and the defence system also belongs to those purposes for which it is called the opening of a new item of the European Aviation Museum, for which 10 million is dedicated.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Some of the concerns about this project of the European Aviation Museum seem justified in view of the fact that this project has not been presented more broadly. Even on our committee, the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union, it was not, but I understand from the explanation, because it goes beyond the borders of the European Union, that it is a much broader project, and therefore it seems very important to me that it is proposed by the Slovenian National Party as a European party. I think it's a very big move. It's got to start somewhere. The considerations can be justified because we can fear that this would not become a bar in this museum activity of Slovenia, but that it would indeed become a promotion, which will probably require a lot of additional resources if the museum develops in this direction, as previously explained. Therefore, I think it would be good for the initiators to present this project to some home committee as well, but certainly the project and intention of the Slovenian National Party should be welcomed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anyone else? If not, we are moving on to a vote or a decision on the 1st amendment, and I ask if anyone wants to explain the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Liberal Democracy Group, we were surprised that Mr Janez Janša was drooling behind the speaker's stage with the support of his colleague, Zmaj Jelinčič, when he presented the European Aviation Museum project, he shriveled here. And I think that the Minister of Finance, Mr Andrej Bajuk, had to break his hand to Mr Janez Janša that he did not support the first step on the way to the goal of getting this European museum. And the government has not supported this for 10 million tolars of a valuable amendment, that is to say it has not supported the first step that has been taken to reach the European Aviation Museum. It must be said that this contribution of 10 million dollars to start this journey will be paid by the European Union in the billions we will receive. What such a European air museum means in a tourist offer, what it means in national pride, is huge and I think that this is a thing that Mr. Zmago Jelinčič has driven and needs to be helped on this path. On the other hand, we are extremely disappointed with the Prime Minister in the sense that when he was in Maribor he spoke in a crowded casino hall that as long as he is in power, Slovenia will not be like just one doughnut, which has marmalade only in the middle, but will somehow be distributed. And I can't understand the stepmother's relationship to the Maribor airport, which, look here, has such a security fleet that's been built years since these vehicles were built, far beyond having any depreciation value at all. This actually belongs to a museum, not a Maribor airport. And this bloody resistance to the problem of the Maribor airport shows that the Prime Minister's promise that Slovenia will no longer be just one round, even a waste of money. For this reason, we believe that the adoption of this amendment is the first stone for Slovenia to have a European museum. The funds are being taken by the General Staff, which I must commend and tell the Minister of Defence that in Maribor in the field of museum activity he did a great deal when he restored the cadet and probably because of this 10 million in the implementation of his budget will not mean much, but at a symbolic level, ladies and gentlemen, it means that we are breaking up those [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, then Mr. Sok. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. So in our parliamentary group, we will support this amendment, which speaks of funds for the airport museum. I have already said in the debate myself that the decision or support has already been given twice by the Defence Committee in its previous term on the initiative of a member of this Committee, Mr Jelinčič. And that was adopted unanimously with the support of all parliamentary groups. That's why we're going to support this amendment. He's not the only one. There are other resources for this museum as well. As for these photographs, it seems a little strange to me that after 12 years of government, someone remembered that some things were 30 years old. He had 12 years to change things at the time, but he didn't even think about it, and today he is apprehensive about the Prime Minister, who is only in that position for a year. This seems a little strange to me, and also because we will show that, in view of the conclusions that we have had in the previous term, we have a different attitude towards this and that this is a project that I can say that the current Prime Minister has already supported, because otherwise the amendment could not be adopted. So we will vote in favour of this amendment. But he's not the only one who's talking about this, so don't just talk about ten million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much. In New Slovenia we will support this amendment - this one and I think there are two others with the same content. If not for another reason, it must be supported to get to the museum where they'll put those old cars that my colleague Kangler was talking about. Of course, it is necessary to ask ourselves what happens when we always point to the country and what the Maribor policy has done in doing so. And I, as a resident of this region, observe what is happening in Maribor, where politics is more or less dealing with itself, instead of being a general engine for the wider back. And I very much agree with those words that one famous Slovenian said: "In Maribor, everything is done for nothing to be done." So, every time we point our finger at the country, let's not forget that four fingers point back. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u107	I'm asking nicely for silence in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u108	But we will support this, and colleague Kangler, there's no need to get upset. As a local politician, you should also warn, because you do not have authority in Maribor, but someone else has it, who is actually dealing with himself all this time. And it also had a decisive impact on the development of this airport, which we are talking about today, which could have developed completely differently if, of course, it was not a local policy. It has done everything against the fact that the status of this airport has actually been resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u109	Thank you. Mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Chairman. Our Group of Members will also support this amendment. In doing so, I would like to say that it would be great to see this air museum gradually realized in the coming years. That's what I mean because I was at the Royal Aviation Museum in London 30 years ago, and I saw at least a few thousand visitors from different parts of the world coming to see it on a full day's work. If this museum were to become a European, it would probably be bigger than that and receive the attention and visits of many tourists, which would undoubtedly have a positive impact on that end of our country and the country as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry. We're going to explain our own voice that I'm going to support this amendment. However, I will support this amendment because it is urgently necessary to provide at least minimum resources to start preparing and driving project documentation in the right direction. But I would like to point out that I understand some who speak for themselves. The stories are all over again. Today, the Maribor airport is on one side of the country - with state infrastructure, on the other hand - the airport administration as a shareholder company. And I also agree with some who say that in the past the authority that had a direct ownership stake over the airport is responsible for such or other moves. But it's been four or five or eight years. And state infrastructure is separate from private capital, separate. And look, he's got a lot on his plate as Chairman of the Transport Committee. As far as the Maribor airport is concerned, I must admit here frankly that the intervention of the Prime Minister has only been given the opening time that the Maribor airport is open until 21:00. In no way and in no way did these third-rate bureaucrats, as I call them, give the green light to open the Maribor airport from 2 p.m. on. How should air traffic develop if air traffic control is provided only by 2 p.m.? And here I have to say honestly: the recognition to the Prime Minister that he hit the table and demanded that flight control be ensured at the Maribor airport and that this ensures the operation and development of this airport, as far as the airport of Maribor is concerned. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u114	Given the debate so far, it is clear that the amendment will therefore receive support from the Slovenian National Party in the National Assembly. Of course, thank you very much. Allow me to stress, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that the value of the amendment will be reflected both in the museum value and in the value of the wider importance and not only in the form of an enrichment of the environment, i.e. airport infrastructure, the cultural and historical system of the museum, but also in particular the possibility of using EU funds or EU funds. Therefore, the only thing that makes sense is what the National Assembly can do, and if it is only decent to take that step or step so as to forget at this point who is the opposition, the position and that this does not prevail in the minds of some individuals, as we have seen in the debate. The amendment needs to be adopted because of the wider environment and, of course, because of the city of Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I don't have anyone else on the list. Anybody else want some? Mr. Sculpture. In your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u116	In my own name. So I remain skeptical of the place where these funds will be realized. I do not believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is qualified to establish a museum activity. I think that if we want any museum, European or global, this will still remain a museum and be subject to museum activity and that it is necessary to locate funds within the Ministry of Culture. From this point of view, I will object to this amendment, because I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not qualified to operate in the museum area, and that means I will say some voluntary action where we Pilately wash our hands, but we will not solve the problem of the airport or the problem of the airport museum, but we will tear up another one of those networks that works by force, this is the museum network. If everyone is able to establish museums through this and beyond professional standards in the National Assembly, then we are questioning the expertise in this area. I oppose this and I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. There are no more applications. We're voting on the first amendment. Thank you very much. There are 67 Members and Members present. 61 votes against 2. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We're voting on the second amendment. I ask, would anyone like to explain the voice either on behalf of the delegation or in their own? I see you don't. We're voting. Thank you. There are 67 colleagues and colleagues present, with 25 votes against 41. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't voted out. Continue on page 5, sub-programme Operation of diplomatic-consular representations. Here we have only one amendment tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Does anyone want to explain their voice in one way or another? Mag. Squeaked on behalf of the Member of Parliament or in his own?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u118	We will support this amendment in the parliamentary group because the amendment substantially increases the money for the functioning of the diplomatic-consular network, on the salaries of the DKPs. In doing so, I would like to point out that we or you have rejected amendments to the Income Act to ensure the proper economic situation and social status of foreign workers. Because you did not guarantee that when these people return to Slovenia, they would have both sick and pension benefits at the level of wages they received or should receive according to their work. This problem will be growing in Slovenia, and colleagues from Social Democracy also wanted to resolve it with this amendment. Obviously, the government does not support this, does not support the mother's working body, and if you continue to think with your head in the previous amendment to the European Aviation Museum, then you will vote in favour of this amendment and any other amendments. I propose that you support the amendment and thus ensure that it is ensured that it is adequate, including the social status of diplomats and all those working in diplomatic and consular representations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that, according to the entire budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, funds have been falling for some time. Thus, in the last period, these funds have now fallen from 0.83% to 0.77%. While it has, say, a country with which we are often replaced, Slovakia, as much as 1% of the state budget earmarked for the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And if you are already following Slovakia's example with regard to the introduction of a single tax rate, you should also set an example by at least equally financing the functioning of the external ministry. I propose that this amendment of the Social Democrats be supported, as this 100 million-dollar post would strengthen the staff force of diplomatic and consular representations in Europe and around the world. In fact, it happened in the past that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Republic of Slovenia opened individual embassies only on paper, because they could not complete them human resources. So I suggest you accept this amendment. In fact, Slovenia will chair the European Union in 2008, and we are entering Schengen, and it is imperative that the diplomatic-consular representative be strengthened in person, which is why we have proposed this amendment, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 38. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the budget user of the Ministry of Defence. First, we have two sub-programmes: scientific research activities in the defence field and technological development in the defence field. The amendment was tabled by the LDS. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I am very pleased that there is a representative of the Ministry of Defence here to be able to hear directly from my mouth my position on scientific research activities at the Ministry of Defence. I am surprised, however, that the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has written this amendment, where it increases funds by a billion 100 on this item. And I did not see any greater centralisation as in the allocation of the funds they had tendered in the Slovenian Army for the period 2004. And it is with great interest that I await the end of this year and that we ask the Ministry of Defence how the funds for research projects were shared in 2005. Look, if that's justice, and if that's honesty, no one will personally convince me. The Slovenian Army, I speak from the analysis, has allocated 2 billion 475 million in 57 projects for 2004 for research projects. We have three universities, we have an institute in Ljubljana. Of this, there are 2 billion 219 million left in Ljubljana. Of the 2 billion 475 million in Ljubljana, 2 billion 219 million remained or 47 projects were supported. What about the University of Koper? What about the University of Maribor? Are we really that kind of "butters" in Maribor, do you think? No, he doesn't. They do not get opportunities and opportunities because of lobbyists who rule and who decide on such or other projects! Shame on you! See, the total of 124 million went to Maribor, of which 20 million were spent at Kranj College, if calculated as a percentage, the University of Maribor would receive 1.8% of all research tasks. However, we have professors who can research and work for NATO and for some other European and American institutions in Ljubljana, who are doing project revisions, and the Ljubljanaers are throwing them out, that projects and tasks are inappropriate and that they do not meet such or other tendering conditions. Shame on you! And I'm surprised, or I'm not surprised, that someone really wants to raise a billion 100 from Liberal Democracy, which in 2000 was so centralistic that it was a precedent of precedent. I'll point it out one more time. Of the 2 billion 475 million left in Ljubljana 2 billion 219 million, 124 billion came to Maribor, not to ask about Cyprus at all how much had come to the University of Cyprus. Is the University of Cyprus just a straw university or their doctors, researchers do not have the opportunity and opportunity to access these funds that the Slovenian Army places in the research spheres? That is why I would like to see another representative of the government sitting here today to point out this to his friends. These money-sharing lobbies are just so macho to some other universities that other institutions behave. It's true! I will propose a law myself, I will propose a law, I will put it into coalition coordination in the future, so that when money is shared for research purposes, where universities are to be awarded, the Rectors or Management Boards must agree to cut such funds and have them deal with each other. Without one or the other consent, this money cannot be divided! At that time, we can expect that these funds will be distributed fairly, according to projects. In this way, I cross: you, me, are reviewing projects for you, and they approve of millions of research tasks, neglecting the University of Koper and the University of Maribor - I cannot accept this. For these reasons, my fellow Members, this amendment, which increases a billion 100 on this item, cannot be supported. This is pure proof of what centralisation means and what it means to be employed in Ljubljana or at the University of Ljubljana or at any other university. And where are the differences and who has more opportunities and opportunities for research? It is painful for those professors, it is painful for those experts who can work for the European institutions that can work for the United States of America, who can work for NATO and the Slovenian army tossing their papers back so that their tasks are inappropriate. That's what's going on. It is said that he is a suitable expert for NATO, they can do research on fiber optics and technology, but for the Slovenian Army he is inappropriate. It is inappropriate, however, because third-rate bureaucrats control this lobby, which shares the budget in this way. If we went to look at any items or segments when purchasing some equipment, we could come to the exact same conclusion. The number of companies established in central Slovenia that have received some of the invitations to tender; others are much better and cheaper, and because some documents are not translated from Slovenian into German, they fall on public invitations to tender because tenders are thus set up. And the tenders are written by those who are interested in getting the deal. That's why I won't support this amendment. However, I will tell you, the Secretary of State in advance: when 2005 is around, I will ask the question of a Member of Parliament and I want for 2005 the answer to how the resources allocated by the Slovenian Armed Forces for research purposes were shared in 2005. And this amendment, for that reason, and from that perspective, I cannot support it. However, I would be happy if they increased in this segment of funds, but I would be even more pleased to see that, after assessing tasks and territorially, they are also distributed evenly in quality and quantity among all three universities in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Zupan has signed up for this. Please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, this comment you have made about the allocation of funds for the projects you have mentioned is, of course, to a large extent true. The fact is that we have identified this problem, the fact is that we have set up a completely new system for system evaluation this year. In particular, this system was in the past, I can say in the decades it was designed so that those who asked were also those who actually evaluated and then also those who actually shared the money. We've changed this system this year. I'm going to say it's not perfect yet, but it's been changed, and it's been cut off, and it's happened that people who ask for projects are no longer on the committees that decide on it. Projects that shared for the military, if I understood you correctly - these calls were particularly bad. We have found this, but when the funds are distributed, but we have already drawn up regulations for this year's 2006 invitation to tender, we have agreed with the Ministry of Defence on how these procedures will take place, and I assure you that these procedures will be followed by a system that is now being introduced. [[.....]] This is said to be assessed by independent experts to assess the relevance. This will be done by both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and will then be made public on the basis of this assessment. I can promise you this and you'll get these exact views of the means. However, in order to divide proportionally into universities, we cannot say this, because the fact that projects need to be assessed primarily in terms of quality and target direction is that they are targeted projects. So we can't prescribe that projects be divided according to the size of universities. But the fact is that it has to be determined because we know that universities in a certain sense are also comparable in some sense to research institutes. Of course, from this long-term relationship, long-term data of course can be seen whether anything has been done, as it is called, either biased or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Let me just say, if this helps motivate us to take one-hour lunch break at one o'clock. So I'd like to ask if you can hold on for 55 minutes. Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u126	Thank you. I am pleased, Your Honor, that you, too, with your activity and your work at the Ministry, have reached these data that I have suggested today. I don't even expect these funds to be distributed proportionally across universities, by the number of students and after all that. The fact is that this money, which has been distributed for many years, remains in only one region or in one area. And 1.8% of the funds earmarked for the University of Maribor will not convince me that this is fairly divided money because I know some projects. Some professors turned to me and made me thoroughly aware of the problem. The problem is in people, the problem is with the employees who decide. They're employed there at the Ministry, where they decide. At the same time, however, they are linked to those who revise these tasks. And it is a shame and a sorrow for someone who could have been assigned to NATO for the U.S. Army, but for some other European countries, for the Slovenian Army, it is inappropriate. And to this man and to this young researcher who has European references, we are doing a great injustice, a great injustice. And such injustices must be removed, and I am very grateful to you, Minister of Respect, that you have warned of this. And I myself will make a great deal of effort and effort, as much as it is in my political power, to make sure that these mistakes are resolved in the future. And this must also be the priority of this government, so that such differences will no longer occur. These data I mentioned are for the 2004 period. And I am certainly interested, so I would like to highlight what these data will be, the allocation of funds by project to all three universities that are active in Slovenia and, of course, to some institutes that have applied for these calls.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I see the debate is gone. We'll vote. Would anyone like to explain your voice? Yes, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u128	In the Liberal Democracy, of course, we will support this amendment, because we are convinced that we need to gradually increase resources for defence and for the development of the Slovenian Army as a contribution to strengthening NATO. And we also welcome that the government has returned to the starting points adopted in 2003, so that it does not invest in the defence ministry only in the purchase of weapons, training, but that defence depends heavily on the research and technical potential of an army. Of course, we find and give it just as surprising that the distribution of these funds - I am not speaking now from the Ministry of Higher Education, Technological Development and Science, but from the Ministry of Defence - are so centralised and the calls are such that at least what we got, there are no signals from the environment that there really has to be something else done, first at the Ministry of Defence, because not only universities, but also labour organisations were participated and determined only from one environment and a company that had an address in some environment, only these companies were selected. Make one analysis and you will see that this claim is completely true. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, what you said - you need to know that the saying that holds the bag is just as guilty - as the one that gives it in. You were in the previous nomenclature another man in the hierarchy who distributed these funds. And if you were honest about what you were saying here today, and you would think, you would expect at least the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to move from Ljubljana, perhaps to Koper, Novo mesto or Maribor. And that would be something, but not just those contracts that they are, and because we know that this technology development agency, we are witnessing, works extremely badly, because it does not attend many meetings where technological development policy is being created, especially on the Higher Education Committee, Science and Technology Development. I think that this would reach two flies at a time: one more way to get this agency to live, another situation would rule and, on the other hand, the centralisation of decision-making in the Republic of Slovenia would be strained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, we vote. I note that there were 58 Members and Members present, 21 votes in favour, 36 votes in favour. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the sub-programme of international cooperation. Once again, we have the resources for the European Aviation Museum. The amendment was tabled by the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Would you like a word? Yes, Mr. Jelinčich the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. It's a three-amendment dig, that's the other one from those amendments. In fact, they are being deployed across different ministries precisely because of the importance and European accommodation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it? Would anyone like to explain your voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. Thank you very much. There were 56 Members and Members present, 53 votes against, none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment has been accepted. We continue on page 7 of your review or our review with the budgetary user. Ministry of Economy. Here we have amendments within a few subroutines and we start with a subroutine. Programmes to promote the technological development of the economy, where two amendments have been tabled, both by the LDS. I'm putting them up for debate. Yes, Dr. Laharnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Dear Members. With our amendments, we want to increase the funds invested in technological development. This is how we want to ensure the technological breakthrough of Slovenia, the greater competitiveness of Slovenia in international markets. Such policies and these amendments are consistent with both the development strategy of Slovenia and the proposals of that famous reform committee. What is currently a fact is that there is a technology agency that was established last year for the mandates of the previous government. This agency has been installed by the new government in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u133	Please, for a little patience and listening. Mr. Lakhovnik. I warned others, not you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u134	Thank you very much. This agency was placed in an empty space by the new government, placed under the Ministry of Higher Education and Science, while some informal authority over it is said to be the Ministry of Economy. What's the problem? It was precisely the idea of this technology agency that a greater share of the funds would be devoted to the economy, in order to implement those research that have the greatest potential for commercial impact. The technology agency was designed according to the example of a Swedish technology agency or a Finnish technology agency, but after one year there is nothing. Nothing. The means for technological development and the competitiveness of the economy are shrinking and what we can only do in this national assembly and try to fix is to increase the share of the funds for technological development through amendments. The funds are taken on the budget lines of the Ministry of Defence, Slovenia has entered NATO, has entered with the assumption that the costs of defence per unit will be lower and we think that there is no problem if funds are taken at the Ministry of Defence and invested in technological development. In this way, our technological ability will increase if you want it to. This has a beneficial impact on the country's competitive and social development. There is no reason to be able to see the largest increase in resources in the defence sector and, on the other hand, funds are being cut down on some other development items. That is why, of course, I call on all Members of Parliament and Members to support this amendment. We believe that the faster technological and competitive development of Slovenia, rather than the increase in expenditure on technological development, cannot be ensured. I would also like to point out that the development strategy of Slovenia explicitly states that the share of R & D expenditure will gradually increase to 3% of gross domestic product and, with these amendments, we only follow the development strategy of Slovenia. Therefore, of course, I also call on the coalition Members to support our amendment and in this way prove that we are indeed aware that we are all in the same boat and that we are trying to restructure this budget, which is underdeveloped, but that a greater share of the funds will be earmarked for development purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Žnidarsic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u136	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to say to this amendment that, should it be accepted, it would mean that the Ministry of Defence, in particular the administrative part of the Ministry of Defence, would have lost 9 tenths of the material costs, so to speak, virtually in March could no longer function normally. That's a first. Secondly, what was mentioned in relation to Slovenia being an Allied NATO and now no longer having to add resources to the defence area, I would just like to point out that last August a resolution on the general and long-term programme and development and equipping the Slovenian Armed Forces, which defines the scope of the defence funding and provides for it to reach 2% of the gross national product, was adopted. I would like to point out that this is an act of the National Assembly, and in this respect all our actions are going as well. I would also like to point out that, given that the scope of the defence amendments or the withdrawal of resources from the defence area is extremely high, it covers more than 20 billion, that the government has also adopted conclusions in its previous reference to this issue and that even a financial projection has been made, i.e. a projection of the percentage of gross national product to be earmarked for defence expenditure, which should amount to 1.78% of gross national product for this year. In fact, the current proposal amounts to 1.70% of gross national product, which means that this area, in nominal terms, has been increased, but given the level of resources set out in this Decision of 2002, is a 5 billionth deficit in terms of projection. Once again, I stress that the resolution adopted last year obliges us, as a defence system, to plan the funds appropriately, not only for consumption but for functional consumption. The professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces not only means that we dress soldiers in uniform, but to ensure that they can carry out their duties within the framework that this country imposes on the defence system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, then Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have a procedural question. On purpose, I have waited for the Secretary of State, Mr Žnidaršič, to finish his performance. In fact, when the Government adopted the supplementary draft budget, it also adopted a decision on who could represent it and represent it at meetings of the National Assembly and at meetings of the working bodies, and here in the Rapporteur it explicitly wrote: the Prime Minister and all ministers and the Minister-General and the Secretary-General of the Government, the Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and the General, etc. Director-General of the Ministry of Finance Directorate. There are no State secretaries and secretaries written here, so I wonder whether the State secretaries and secretaries today have the authority to represent their ministers here, because they have not written here, and whether they can participate in the work of the National Assembly. Above all, I would like the ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to come to the Chamber as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Of course, according to the rules of procedure, the Secretary of State may also be present, in accordance with our rules of procedure under which we work. I could put your proposal to the vote, I can interrupt the meeting, but given that we have only just processed a few amendments on page 7, I suggest we continue our work and will eventually decide on your procedural proposal by the college. Please, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u140	Mr Vice-President, I think that the secretaries of State should be listed, but also before the meeting should be open, the President should tell whether they have a mandate or not. I therefore ask that this be arranged for the government to provide a written document, where it will be written to replace the ministers at this meeting with State secretaries and secretaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The expert services have informed me that they will prepare this and, of course, will also distribute it to all Members and Members accordingly. We're going back to the amendment. Would anyone else like to discuss it? Excuse me, Mr. Jerovšek has applied earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Respectable. If a man analyzed this amendment of the Liberal Democracy in two parts, first of all only the one where it was given, and separated from what they were taking, he would almost lament the nobility of the State of Liberal Democracy. However, if it goes a little deeper into the analysis, of course, it must be said that in some way, in the Liberal Democracy, they are probably burned by conscience, as I have repeatedly mentioned in these days that the former director of the Institute, Josef Štefan, has stated here in Parliament that under the rule of the LDS Slovenia, has become a technological colony. And of course, this colonial status in some parts of the technological development of Slovenia is not an honor and you would understand that you want to correct this matter. However, when one looks at the second part of the amendment, where you are taking it, it feels as if in the Liberal Democracy you think that the Slovenian Army is an occupying army and must be driven out of the country. And I also have some understanding of this because somehow, given that Mr Lahovnik explained this amendment and that we had read a while ago what internal function in the LDS was performed, namely, the role of the courier, I would say that this amendment came by courier mail and couriers had sometimes also had a somewhat anarchistic role, they were allowed some anarchistic action against the occupying army and I am bringing some association here. This is obviously how this amendment came about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Secretary of State Znidaršič, let me say that I have just received an overview of the cooperation of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which bears the date 16.12.2005, and this review also lists all the State secretaries of the ministries, of course not by name. That's how it's done from this point of view. Mr. Secretary of State, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then Mr. Stebe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It's very nice to take the army, sometimes we've told the military, and give it to the economy or science to promote technological development. The Ministry of Defence in today's Republic of Slovenia has, in addition to its entirely different roles, obligations regarding NATO membership in our country and operates in a completely different way than it did in the past. I hope that it will work in a different way more and more and that defence or its projects can be a major incentive for technological development or at the application level, and in some countries such as the United States of America, the military is in fact the greatest promoter of basic research and demanding technologies. And here, too, our Ministry of Defence can play an important role with projects financed. Here is the topic of moving funds for technological development, but our Ministry of Defence, if you are monitoring their projects, invests in its capabilities in a way that is useful and increasingly useful in civil situations as well. Some years ago, when I was wondering if our army was capable of dealing with natural disasters, I received an answer that they did not take care of themselves or that they did not. Recently, however, we have heard or seen the news that the Ministry of Defence has established a complete hospital, which is also envisaged for natural disasters in our country or in any other country where solidarity is needed. And I was very pleased at the last visit of the Minister of Defence in our municipality, when he mentioned that the Ministry of Defence and also their attitude towards firefighting in this ministry are changing significantly today. This is how I expect these funds to be used in fact to promote technological development, of course through the involvement of domestic research institutes and institutions, as well as businesses and other organisations. Thank you very much. And I will not support these two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I feel it is my duty to clarify certain things that are of key importance, as regards the defence commitments of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me say that the Slovenian state has committed itself to actually achieving such a defence budget by 2008 so that it will be equal to 2% of gross domestic product. It is also important that, on 27 June 2002, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a financial plan, namely Decision 821-11, which would result in 1.78% of the gross domestic product in 2006 for the planned public defence funds. Let me say that the entire time frame adopted by the government at the time was that it was not in fact respected that this government had already tried to correct through the rebalancing of this matter, that the proposal before you was still 5 billion lower than the plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as I said, on 27.6.2002. At present, we are also planning to remain behind 0.8% of gross domestic product in the 2007 budget, but we will try to make sure that we will assume this responsibility, regardless of which government we will meet in time, and so please take note of this too when you discuss the issue of Slovenian defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss these two amendments? Anyone want to explain their vote on the first amendment? No, no, no. We're voting. Thank you. There were 54 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 35. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We're voting on the second amendment. Does anyone want to explain their voice either on their own behalf? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. Thank you very much. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 35. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the subroutine. Mine-closing programs. Here we have the amendment tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much. This is an amendment that increases the mining damage item, namely the removal of mining damage in Idrija as a result of half a thousand years of mining. In fact, this is a legal category, the Mining Act stipulates that mining damage is settled wherever it was created on mining facilities. In addition, mining damage is necessary to address also the standards in the law on prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idrija mercury mine. Thus, the State is now liable on the basis of these two legal standards and a specific programme adopted by the previous government, and has also been supplemented by this government, which is responsible for the recovery of the mining damage of some 850 million dollars, followed by this government or the Ministry of Economy of the former government and very quickly by the means to remedy the damage, and if so, this damage will not be remedied until 20 years. This is not a good prospect for the future for a city with 6,000 inhabitants, under which there are 130 kilometers of mine pits. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word, anyone want to explain their voice? We're voting. Thank you. There were 58 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 37. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. It's the subroutine. Competitiveness programmes. We have an amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and I am putting it to the debate. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! With regard to the proposed amendments to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian industry or the Slovenian economy, I would like to say that, indeed, a little less funding is earmarked for 2006 than in 2005, from 12.3 billion to 9.6 billion. Let me mention that 3.6 billion were earmarked for this in 2004. However, I would like to say this, as you know, we have adopted this year amendments and additions to the law on the tax on paid salaries proposed by the Ministry of Finance for the gradual abolition of the tax, precisely with the primary aim of increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy or of deploring the Slovenian economy. In fact, the gross amount for the following year is 24 billion, and if I subtract the public sector, that remains net 18 billion. And if we now consider this difference 3 billion, it means that the indirect increase in funding for this purpose has increased by 15 billion. I would like to stress, once again, for this area, which is also directly linked or indirectly to previous amendments, this area is greatly increased for companies, for independent entrepreneurs and for service activities and so on. However, what is very important is what we have adopted, namely the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons, where it is being made easier for us to invest 20% in research and development. This is certainly linked to this item of the Ministry of Economy. That's why I won't support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much. With this amendment, there are some previous amendments [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u153	Please, only Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u154	it is, of course, necessary to note the nonconsistency and some anarchy of the proposer. [[...]] Indeed, noble objectives appear to be accompanied, of course, by the fact that the proponents literally abolish the country, destroy it and so on. And then we need to ask ourselves about the seriousness of such proposals. In fact, I would fully agree with this amendment if the Liberal Democracy, for example, wrote that funds are being taken from the sale of "parked shares" - for example, when you "parked" Mercator's shares at a stock exchange price and these funds are intended to increase competition. If the Liberal Democracy could perhaps clarify where the other "parked shares" are intended to be bought by some dedicated buyer. I believe that these "parked shares" in Slovenia are for a few ten billion more" and it would be very useful if the country indicated where to take it for the benefit of the country. However, when we see here where we would take it, I see that in the Liberal Democracy it is not only the Slovenian Army, but also the internal security and the Slovenian police that guides it. And we had in the beginning that they would spend 70 million to increase internal security or improve the functioning of the police. Here, however, they take a billion and a half from these funds, which are designed to do so. A billion and a half! I warn you of the complete anarchy of such thinking. Look. Man, at first, I think this is due to the dilantatism of working in the parliamentary group, but in view of the previous amendments, when they were taking control from the southern border, when they lifted control at the southern border, and from this amendment, one must imagine and find that this is obviously part of a broader destabilization programme. In view of the fact that you want to lift control of the southern border at sea in the Gulf of Piran, this is probably part of the programme of croatification of the Bay of Piran and the Slovenian Istria, for example. If we accept this, then of course next year we will have the shells of Croatian fishermen outside the Hotel Metropolis. Such thinking and logic: the worse for the country, the better for us, of course I will not bow to it or resist it, and I also point to this logic in these amendments. When we move forward, it will probably be much clearer and much more visible what the hidden agendas of this strategy of the Liberal Democracy are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate. Would anyone like to explain your voice? Dr. Laharnik. On behalf of the MP? But if no one wants to do it on behalf of the Member of Parliament, then you have a word in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u156	I will support this amendment because the data show very clearly that the resources for competitiveness and technological development are being reduced in the budget. We also had all the arguments on the table of various subsidiary associations, such as the Chamber of Commerce, but apparently some coalition Members cannot convince the arguments and facts. They're me. I'll support this amendment. One more thing. In particular, with an argument, of course, if we are looking at growth indices, it is necessary to realize, however, that if you are looking at the Ministry of Higher Education and Science, there are phenomenal indices because this ministry was previously gone, but you invented an additional institution, an additional ministry, and there are high indices. However, if you are looking at the funds that were within the Ministry of the Economy where these programmes belonged before, you should note that this is a radical reduction in resources in technological development and competitiveness. That is why, of course, I call on you once again to support this amendment, or to explain it myself, that I will, of course, support it, because I think that the means for technological development and competitiveness are extremely important for the lives of all the inhabitants and residents of this country. However, if, as I said, we look at the indices comprehensively and look at individual substantive areas, we see that in the new budget, resources for technological development and competitiveness are falling. But if you're looking at the items where they've written it's another story, but that's your problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Mikolitch. In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I will vote against the amendment to repeat my arguments. I had previously operated on specific numbers in the debate. These are the facts. I have mentioned two important laws that we have adopted in this National Assembly, and if these two laws have ever closer links to budget lines, then they certainly have to do with the area or both of the Ministry of Economy or with the specific sub-programmes currently under consideration. And here I explained the facts or the arguments on how to relieve the economy in terms of tax burdens. However, the basic purpose of the adoption of tax laws or amendments to tax laws was precisely in this context, in order that this money, or that money, should be used by an economic company, industry, service activities to increase competitiveness, is, in other words, intended to increase knowledge and so on. I therefore repeat that I, as the New Slovenia Group, will vote against the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We're voting. Mr. Squeakle, please report in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u160	Very briefly. I will support this amendment not only because of what has been said on your part, but because if you go to the website on 9 December 2005, you will see that in the third quarter of 2005 there has been a reduction in the rate of economic growth compared to the second quarter and the amendment that would increase the programme of increased competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, the Minister - or the Secretary of State is here with us - would provide additional means to increase competitiveness, which would mean to preserve jobs either in the White Landscape or now, as we hear, in the Slovenian valley or in the mental valley, Maribor, in Rogaška Slatina in the Vrhnika leather industry and elsewhere. Therefore, I propose that you allow Minister Viszak to obtain additional funds and that by these additional means it enables the competitiveness of the Slovenian industry to be accelerated. The high economic growth we have achieved in recent years is the result of these programmes. Now you are reducing this money and the first elements and the first indications of it are unfortunately already here. These are serious issues related to the irreparable entry into the exchange mechanism of course 2 and that we will take over the euro and this will put great pressure on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and therefore require additional resources through fiscal policy, which we now set by pressing the keys in the next few seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We are voting now. Thank you. There were 60 Members and Members present, 23 votes in favour against 37. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment has not been voted on. We are at point 2 on page 9, of the amendment tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? Thank you. He wants Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Promoting the competitiveness of the Slovenian industry is certainly one of the priorities if we are to succeed in the most developed countries and if we want to promote ourselves as such also in other external markets. And for this, we allocate substantial resources of 1 billion tolars, and it is certainly more important that we try to develop the domestic industry in particular and then try to somehow develop development opportunities that are linked to foreign investment. That is why we would also like to make clear our support for the Slovenian, domestic economy, which should be more competitive and then this economy should be the one that will also try to attract other investors, other investors, but in a way that puts the Slovenian industry at the heart of development, not that we or our economy will have to adapt to others. This is a long-term too dangerous policy if I can say so or lose the mechanisms of our own development and the adoption of this amendment goes in this direction to preserve our own development, to preserve our vision of development and to have a decisive influence in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Just an explanation. We are discussing all amendments under each sub-programme at the same time, and then, in the case of an individual amendment, we are just explaining the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or in our own. I made a mistake earlier, and this is about explaining my voice. Anyone else? We're voting. Thank you. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 35. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are at point 3 on pages 9 and 10. Amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Does anyone want to explain the voice: on behalf of the Group of Members, on their own behalf? We're voting. Thank you. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 35. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are in the sub-programme to promote the development of a small economy. We have an amendment tabled by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club and I am putting it to the debate. There's no debate. Anyone want to explain their vote before the vote? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There were 55 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 34. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The following sub-programme concerns social protection and compensation for the restructuring of production. Once again, we have one amendment tabled by the Social Democrats' Group of Members and wants to discuss Mr Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u165	Excuse me, can you explain your voice or can you discuss it, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u166	Rather, it is the implementation of the so-called asbestos law. The fact is that the government has substantially reduced the budget line compared to 2005, not to mention 2004, for the acquisition of the insurance age and for compensation to asbestos patients. This law was adopted by the National Assembly in 1996 and has undergone several amendments. In January this year, the National Assembly extended the law until the end of 2005 on the proposal of colleague Breda Pecan and me, who were signatories to this law. Therefore, the law expires this year. While the government has promised to come to the National Assembly by law, where it will fully address the problem of working with asbestos in the Republic of Slovenia, this has not happened until a few days ago. Therefore, Breda Pecanovo and I re-proposed the extension of the law and introduced a new law before the government law. This would also make it possible to draw on budgetary resources, which, while in the 2006 and 2007 budget, are in a substantially reduced budget line. With this amendment, we increase funds by 262 million tolars. That's why I think this amendment would be a good support. Indeed, it is necessary to know that, since the entry into force of this law, by 30 June this year, the pension law enforcement commission has issued 1,451 positive pension decisions under more favourable conditions and has allocated around 3 billion tolars for these purposes by the State during the period 1996-2004. However, the Commission has settled with 1,372 patients for communication and compensation procedures due to the consequences of one form of asbestos disease, and for this period from 1996 to 2004 it has gone from the state budget to about 3.2 billion tolars. However, from November to this day, the work of these commissions has virtually stopped. By the end of June this year, the Commission was on average executed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u167	Please take a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. They've been bothering me all along, but that's the way it is in this national council. Each month, the Commission or both committees granted on average only two applications: or those wishing to retire under more favourable conditions because they were working in asbestos production or those who had become ill and would like to settle with them. However, since this is so slowly being done, many asbestos patients decide to sue and seek their rights through courts, which also work very slowly. That is why I would particularly appeal to the two Commissions, the government, to speed up [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u169	Please, peace in the hall! Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u170	accelerate their work and in this way also enable the funds provided for in the State budget to be spent. [[...]] The fact is, experts estimate that about 23,000 workers were exposed to asbestos in Slovenia and that due to the very long latent period to an outbreak of one of the asbestos diseases, the peak of disease in our country is expected around 2025. Another problem that has been completely ignored by the planners of the new law is that the harmful effects of asbestos dust have also been exposed to the inhabitants of endangered areas. This is the case of the Sokka Valley around Anhove, south and north of the factory. Let me say that in Western Europe there have already been several complaints that residents living in the vicinity of asbestos factories have been successful and have received compensation. I would also point out that the proposal for a law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos, adopted by the Government on 30 November, has very serious comments both by the Association of asbestos Patients of Slovenia and by employers, so, to my knowledge, I can argue with all authority that this law was not in line with the social partners and that it will have a very large number of comments in the parliamentary hearing. I therefore propose, fellow Members and colleagues, that the amendment of the Social Democrats should be supported with regard to the increase in funds for the implementation of the so-called asbestos law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much. This is how it is, Mr Testen, that I will not limit the debate, but because it is meant to take a break between one and the other hours, I would still suggest that we end this point if you are up for it. But we can, of course, end the debate and go to [[...]] Then, since there will be a discussion, I interrupt the session, we continue at 2 p.m. and wish you a good run.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u172	Dear Members! We continue with the afternoon work of the National Assembly. We are under the Sub-programme Social Protection and Compensation for the Restructuring of Production. I have two MEPs, Mrs Pecanovo and Mrs Testen. We're on page 10 of the amendment review. I give my word to the Pecans.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I'm a little surprised that Mr. Testen signed up to me. But no, I don't think there's any doubt that I'm going to support this amendment. However, I explicitly stress, not because we have invested it in our parliamentary group, but because I believe that it is necessary to provide the necessary resources to ensure that people who, due to the inconsistencies of the country, first Yugoslavia and later Slovenia, are too long exposed to asbestos dust and therefore have become sick, some have died long ago for various types of asbestos. I therefore believe that the necessary resources must be provided first of all and, above all, I think that it would be right for the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to co-operate with the Commission dealing with the recognition of occupational disease in order to speed up its work or to keep its work at a normal pace. He now works as he did in slow motion, instead of processing all new cases every year, they are amassed by cases and, of course, people are suffering. And I would like to say that this reminds me more and more of a case where some things are not being resolved because some state authorities are waiting for applicants to die before they get the right to fair compensation. And one more thing. I would also like to point out that I do not think it is the fault - or if I can even talk about it - of this government for the Commission to work poorly, but this is an old phenomenon, for at least two years, and I think it would be right - not two years, but three years, because this year, and those two years earlier when the Commission slowed down its work by at least 50 to 70%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u174	Thank you for further explanation. And I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Testen. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. I'm going to support this bill, and not only am I coming out of that environment, but I'm going to support this amendment. But I'd like to draw attention to something else. Last year or spring, we extended the asbestos law, and then we accepted the obligation to draft a new law by the new year. Although this law has not yet been adopted, it is now in the process and I would like to remind all those responsible for bringing this law into effect as soon as possible so as not to get into a situation where the old law needs to be renewed. I think that the starting point and the basis are good, but that it is necessary to hurry and all those things that are not yet harmonised need to be settled as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u176	Thank you, Ambassador Testen. I believe that the representatives of the government will move your appeal forward and that the National Assembly will soon meet with the proposal you are making. Anyone else want a word on the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats' Group of Members? No, no, no. Then we can come to a decision. Anybody want to explain their voice? Not at all. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are not enough Members present, so we will repeat the vote. I ask that all the Members who are in the Chamber take your seats and thus allow the National Assembly to do its work normally. We are moving on to a re-decision on the amendment proposal. We're voting. As you probably know, under the rules of procedure, I am obliged to suspend the meeting of the National Assembly. However, all Members present in the House are requested to ensure their participation within 5 minutes of the third time we vote on the amendment proposal. So we'll resume the session at 14.15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. As you know, there is a third decision before us on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to the Sub-programme for social protection and compensation for the restructuring of production. Please put the remaining obligations aside for a moment and focus on the vote. Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 34. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user, the Ministry of Agriculture, namely the sub-programme of the ground operation. We have an amendment tabled, proposing to the Liberal Democracy Club. Who wants a word? Comrade Sok, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u178	Thank you very much. If my colleagues will let me. I would like to say that more resources should be allocated under the budget for the hydromeliorations of agricultural land, but these resources cannot be taken from the rural development programme. That is why I say that because of this amendment, as well as all the other amendments where opposition Members would like to devote more resources to the rural development programme, we will oppose. Although we agree that roads are needed everywhere, of course. Why is it not possible to take resources from this program? Since this is essentially an agreed programme with Brussels and however it would reduce funding from the rural development programme, it would in fact also give up certain European Union funds for this purpose. I think the Members who wrote these amendments knew that. However, if not, it would be good to keep in mind so far that it is not possible to introduce any other programmes into the budget at the expense of these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u179	Thank you. A representative of the government entered the floor. Mr. Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This is exactly what I wanted to explain: it is probably a misunderstanding, or perhaps even a misunderstanding, and not only about this amendment, but with many others. Indeed, such an adopted amendment would be totally impractical and, in fact, irrelevant because we are talking about European funds. European funds can only be shared, for the first time, only for rural development programmes. Secondly, on the basis of this four-year rural development programme, which ends in 2006. And if we want to make any change in this programme, then by 15 December of this year, we should send a request to the European Commission for amendments to Brussels. However, changes could only be made in such a way that one rural development programme could actually be reduced to the account of another rural development programme measure, and everything else is impossible. Rural development funds cannot be earmarked for anything other than rural development measures for those approved in the multiannual programme. This would practically mean if this amendment were accepted or any other amendment relating to the taking of money on rural development, in which case the money for rural development would remain unused. However, what the budget would say could be useful but could not be used and this would be impossible because the funds simply cannot be used for anything other than this. This is a European logic and it is probably a misunderstanding or maybe a misunderstanding and I apologize. Thanks for the explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u181	Thanks for the explanation. Anyone else want a word? Emissary Uhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. Nor will I support this amendment, as Mr Sok and the Secretary of State have already said before me, even because it takes it in an area where it cannot be taken. I would like to say that with great difficulty, we have put one item in, that is, co-financing farming due to adverse natural conditions. Support for those farms that have unjustifiably fallen from this programme in 2004 and have lost a considerable source of funding from the European Union and we have made only one third of this impossible from the Slovenian budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u183	Thank you. Ambassador Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u184	I would just like to draw attention to the fact that such a warning is given that these funds are untouchable. I like to believe that, but if the information is correct, this year we did not get exactly 10 billion from Brussels for payment programmes, i.e. for rural development programmes. So we can't bring in 10 billion, even though we have all the mechanisms to do that. To say that this is untouchable, I would understand if all of these activities were going as they should, but in 2005 there is a 10 billion drop on this item, there will be no 10 billion from Brussels.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u185	Thank you. A representative of the government, Master Booth, has recommenced. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I just want to make it clear that we are talking about two packages in rural development. One is rural development from the so-called environmental perspective up to 2007, and only one will be under 2007. The second is the part that relates to investments and is part of a single programming document. For the first one to be adopted on the basis of next year's budget of 25 and several billion tolars, 80% is financed by the European Union, 20% by the Slovenian budget and will be fully spent as it will be this year, but there can be some delay because this is a multi-annual programme. And, as long as the financial flows are such that Slovenia pays, for example, this year in December, then this money will not come from Brussels until next March and not before. And here only financial flows can be made, otherwise undisputedly guaranteed, I can say that all rural development funds from this package will be the real environmental package, which is the largest, fully exploited, on the contrary, about a few billion will even have to be transferred to the next financial period. As regards the second part of the rural development programme, which is linked to investments and part of a single programming document, there is, in fact, the right of users or beneficiaries to make use of this money from the date of signature of the contracts within three years. I believe that this money will also be used by people, whether they will take advantage of it next year, or only in 2008 some who will receive the programme approved next year, which I cannot say in essence in advance. This right of opportunity is given, and this is the principle of these funds. I argue that all funds will be distributed at the Ministry of Agriculture and if they are distributed, I believe that they will be very likely to be spent, and, of course, within three years, they have the right to complete the investment. However, they cannot get the money before the investment is completed, of course, after the stages in this second investment work. Once again, I'm saying that it's not possible to spend this money for anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u187	Thank you. My friend Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u188	I just want to warn you that if you can't make something happen, then of course this money is somewhere. And I'm going to say, wait for 2008 to make something real and not do it in the middle, I'm going to say, hydromelioration, maybe really inappropriate, if I can call it that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr Sok once again took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u190	I think that colleague Weber, who is a member of the Committee on Agriculture, knows these matters very well. One is the planned means and the other is the realisation. Realisation's always a little late, so it's a little late. And because of this fact, we cannot redistribute resources for this purpose. That's all. But if I did, what Mr Secretary said would happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u191	Government representative, Mr. Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u192	I'm sorry, one more time. Hydromeliorations are extremely important and because of the fact that no one can have money for everyone, unfortunately they are too small and very justified here, but they are also justified elsewhere. Very specific. Hydromeliorations and other land operations are not subject to an EU-funded rural development programme. And since they are not included in the 2004-2006 programme, they cannot theoretically be financed. However, we have the opportunity to write this as one of Slovenia's priorities in 2006 when we will present Brussels with a new programming document for the use of money for rural development 2007-2014. And if we write that down, we can also benefit and redistribute these resources. For example, if you are left with money in some measure, if you do not have it on another, or if you do not have it, this redeployment is possible with Brussels’s consent, but if you do not have a priority in the programme, you cannot redistribute it in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u193	Thank you. With the Magi debate. We also concluded the debate on Booth. I will put to the vote the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to the sub-programme of the ground operation. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to the vote. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting forward an amendment to the sub-programme to reduce agricultural damage, the proposaler of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude a debate that has not been held. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] Within the framework of the budgetary user, the Ministry of Agriculture is moving to a sub-programme for the restoration, care and protection of forests. Four amendments have been tabled under this sub-programme. The first amendment, proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, secondly, by the same motioner, namely the Liberal Democracy Club, the third amendment of the same motioner and the fourth amendment of the same motioner. I am discussing all four proposed amendments at the same time. Who wants a word? Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u194	See, since this is a set of amendments, some of which are further, in my opinion, based in a way contrary to the State's activities, because it is a matter of abolishing internal security in such a country, it is a destabilisation of the country, I would call on the LDS Group of Members to resign from these amendments. Wherever this is the case, I think that this is actually some kind of activity that is even sanctioned and better than making a bad impression that I am still giving up these amendments. They did act anarchistically so that I wouldn't say anything worse. And once again, if - normally, responsible Members cannot agree to such a problem and to such activities, and it is known that this will be rejected, but it would be in their favour if they gave up. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u195	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Comrade Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I'm going to talk about all of these amendments that LDS has proposed to these subroutines. All these amendments, which are relatively non-budgetary in terms of financial resources, aim at improving the state of maintenance and conservation of forest development. This situation has deteriorated dramatically, and the systems that were once installed are no longer operational. And of course, because of this he suffers, you could say, the quality of forests, the natural environment and of course a series of problems can come from unmaintained and unregulated forests. The fact that 60% of the Slovenian area under the forests does not have any real status, no real maintenance, that the forestry service, the public service is in breach, is an anti-state activity for me. This is the destruction of 60% of Slovenian territory for me, not if one police service is reduced by one car or something. I would therefore ask you to seriously consider these arguments and to say, however, that it is 60% of Slovenian territory, that this territory is ecologically, economically, water-protectively important and that it is not possible to play with them, especially with these changed ownership and other relations in the forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u197	Thank you. Member Pike has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u198	I would also support these amendments if the previous government provided economic concessions for the exploitation of Slovenian forests. You had every chance to fix it and collect more money where it's running now. Unfortunately, I cannot support this when this is settled, but I will be the first to invest more money in biological amortisation in the forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u199	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Sayovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The amendments of some of our colleagues, united in the joint amendments of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, point to certain problems. Thus, in the previous article, when we talked about meliorations, we have a matter that has been well started, but not completed, as well as these amendments concerning forests. Forests, in addition, are of course about investing in private forests and private forests perform an important public function. And more money is simply needed to do so. This is not primarily about the economic aspect, but also about the so-called ecological and environmental aspects and therefore there is a need for more attention and more resources to be paid to these issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u201	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u202	Also with this issue, it is so that, of course, higher resources for care in private forests would be very well used to make this very good. However, I agree with my colleague's debate, I think that the Pike, who has pointed out that the state forests are being given to the 20-year GG management today and that the country will take very little of this. Thus, if there is a source for these investments, then there is a source, first this concessional relationship with a higher rate of duty must be regulated, and then it will also be possible to use higher resources for care in private forests on this item. However, to take the police in this way, of course, we cannot agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u203	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Comrade Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u204	Just for a little while. As it is said, it is mostly about investing in private forests. True, concession contracts have been concluded, not all cases have been carried out. Mr Sok and others, let us ask your coalition colleagues from the SLS, who led the Ministry of Agriculture, I was in the government, why they did not and did not manage to settle all our negotiations, even though they were invited by the Prime Minister, both of them, and, of course, ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u205	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss the four amendments proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club? No, then I'm closing the debate. We will decide on each amendment individually. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to the sub-programme of the programme for the restoration and protection of forests. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour and 38 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to the same sub-programme by the same proposer. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 18 votes in favour and 38 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment to the same sub-programme by the same proposer. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 20 votes in favour and 60 votes in favour. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the last proposed amendment to the same sub-programme proposed by the same parliamentary group. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 21 votes in favour and 39 votes in favour. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the debate an amendment under the sub-programme for the development of fisheries and the only proposed amendment proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Who wants to discuss it? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. Before we go to the vote on this amendment, I ask if anyone wants to explain their vote? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 33. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment tabled in the sub-programme for the operation of services and public institutions, the proposed parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Who wants a word? Here you go, Polanek Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u206	So, I'm going to the National Assembly, I'd say, with a request to support this amendment. The amendment that would put an amendment in the framework of the review of the amendments, which would provide more resources for the functioning of the public office of Kobilarn Lipica, is two amendments, one within the Ministry of Agriculture and one within the Ministry of Culture. And already in advance, I recommend that we also support the amendments to the positions of the Ministry of Culture. Those amendments allow the public institution of Kobilarna Lipica to be financed at least to the extent that it is in the current year and nothing else. Now, as for the Kobilar Lipica, it is necessary to say that for many years nothing has been done to ensure that you do not try to determine what the previous government has done, I am telling you that it has been a prisoner of the coalition partner of the Slovenian People's Party, who has given ministers and who have not done anything in the area of Kobilirna Lipica, because the situation is not improving there. I expect that this new government, which has also unilaterally transferred the competence of Kobilar Lipica to the Ministry of Culture, which is covered by the Slovenian Democratic Party, that something will happen after one year, to find that the situation is exactly the same, that the decline continues, and that no public authority in this country is obviously capable of doing so well, so we should probably think more and more broadly about solving this problem. In previous mandates, the so-called nature protection profession has opposed various ideas. This has now been silenced, and perhaps there is a reason for this transfer of power to their income, and I don't know who else is going on here, because I expected that there would be ideas, above all, about better golfing in Lipica and others, that something would turn up. Anyway, the collapse of Kobilar Lipica and we're all talking about some pride of ours is continuing. I am aware that these amendments cannot solve this problem, obviously even with the new coalition power we can will. But to ensure that they do not repeat every year's story when they arrive at the end of the year in newspapers, how the horses will be hungry and then the people who care for them will wake up and dig for the budget and find some means for this pride. In no case do we know how to take care of them, and obviously this new government is not going to do anything, at least until now it has shown that it is not going to do anything, so I suggest that you at least provide the necessary resources to ensure that this will continue, so that it will not dry up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u207	Thank you. There's a mag in the word. Booth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I have to repeat what I said before. Simply, if such an amendment is adopted, it will not be feasible. This will leave 190 million unexploited in Brussels, because it is not possible to finance public institutions from European development funds, i.e. rural development funds. It would be possible, for example, for Lipica to register with a programme under a single programming document, but it is not possible, under any circumstances, to provide for some money for a public institution under the rural development programme. And if this is accepted, it will be completely impossible, and I think you know that. Otherwise, this year the ministry will also devote or propose to Lipica approximately 200 million tolars in 2006. However, I think that once again there will have to be an even little more entrepreneurial plan in Lipica by the management, because it cannot count on just new and new state money and nothing else. Of course, it is unacceptable to think in this way at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u209	Thank you. Member Tarchón has entered the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u210	Mr. Booth, you've been Minister for a long time and you've managed Lipica. And you said the same thing, you'd have to do something -- you had time, and you didn't do anything. And I would expect you to do something when you had the authority to do it. Now you're repeating those old stunts. Mr Brejc, who is the President of the Council there, also spoke at the beginning of his term of office about how he would devote himself to Lipica. But after one year, nothing moved again. And here you come with old stuff, but the thing is - of course, because you're always the same with it - it keeps falling and falling. Look, you keep saying how impossible it is, so we've chosen an item where it's impossible to take. And for a formal reason, you're probably right. But for the first time, I'd say that wherever we take it and wherever we give it, we only know something that you don't mean to support. If we had free will, we could also support this in a way that would make the budget uncoordinated and then come with a coordinating amendment and resolve it. Clearly, it is still not desirable that such problems, which everyone declares as the most important and as our pride and I do not know what, be resolved, but hide their heads in the sand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u211	Thank you. I'd like to take you to the Black Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, chairman. Lipica became a public institution in 1995, ten years ago. Before becoming a public institution, she received about 50 million budget money a year. Dear colleague Terchón, you know very well how it was when you were then head of the administrative unit in Sezana, and you will remember that in 1996, one year after she became a public institution and when she came under some state custody, she received 20 million less money, says 30 million; she survived. That's when she survived. She had over half a billion losses that had been saved in one year. True, it was unable to develop, but it created normal operating conditions. I'm not going to go into what's been going on for the last ten years, because it doesn't matter. I don't think this amendment that was filed is gonna solve any of this. In recent years, Lipica received part of the concession from the Lipica casino until the Constitutional Court repealed this provision and thus restored one part of the building’s heritage to some stage and provided one basis for further development. What is essential, however, is that in all these years it did not happen again because it was also written in the law and what should have happened in a relatively short time, there is an appropriate location plan with activities that will take place in this area and only then an appropriate financial recovery or structure for the development of these activities. However, as far as I am aware, I think that Lipice's leadership is working towards these activities, but there are a lot of things on his mind, it is said, on the head of the director and the professional manager, and that the world is also working, the Lipice Council, to seek to attract additional external investors into that part of the programme that is not strictly tied to the horsemen, is called the hotel part and the golf courses. I believe that what is already contained in the budget is a very good basis for continuation and that it does not depend on these additional millions, how and how Lipica will develop in the future, but this depends primarily on those who currently run this public institution and perhaps also on us, because we will probably have to amend some provision of the applicable law in the coming period. But it's not conditional on funds. This is conditional on other things, so that I cannot support this amendment because it is unnecessary and will not settle absolutely anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u213	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Aloys Sok to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u214	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to point out once again that if we are going to the debate on Kobile Lipica, then we can debate for a very long time. It's a very long story. But the item from which it is taken is not real. I warned you that before, and the Secretary of State said that. We simply cannot reduce rural development programmes because we are in fact moving away from what is agreed with the EU. So those of you who have proposed this, I don't know if this is Comrade Terchón or who, we should look for another item, not this item in the rural development programme. Therefore, this proposal is not good. Otherwise, we all agree that Lipica is in financial trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u215	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the vote an amendment to the sub-programme for the operation of services and public institutions by the proposaler of the Liberal Democracy Group. My friend Squeakle, in the middle of a debate? I'm done with that. I'm opening up an explanation for the voice. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u216	I'll explain the voice on my behalf. I would not like to talk about Lipica, because I am not a specialist, of course, but I must say in explaining my voice that you should not worry about taking it from a source that is a rural development programme, because it is not yet known which projects will succeed in the rural programme is unknown. Mr But knows well that, on the basis of the expressed will of the National Assembly, if so, Lipica will receive additional resources, at least for part of the co-financing of these programmes, and then prepare a programme that will be, either within a single programme document or by supplementing it, certainly receive the attention of the European Union. To say that we cannot take it because we have agreed with the European Union is simply misleading. We have not yet agreed with the European Union, except for the extent of the funds and some of the basic purposes and the basic question is whether the Kobilna Lipica programme includes all its effects, we call it tourism and other karst landscape, among rural development, I believe it belongs. Because if you go to look at similar programs in other marshmallows related to the genus of lips, you will see that a lot of this has been drawn from European funds. So you don't have to cheat, it's possible to do that. Today, we express political will as a national assembly if you confirm this and commit the government to do something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u217	Thank you. Explanation of the vote, on behalf of the Group or on behalf of the Group of Members, Comrade Sok? In my own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u218	Just for a little while. Well, it's not about deceiving. I agree that this can be done. Of course, Parliament can accept anything. Most of us can vote on this, but once again, if we do this, then we give up the part of the funding allocated by the European Union for rural development programmes. That's why it doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u219	Thank you. Comrade Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u220	So, unless we support this amendment and the next amendment, which is in the Ministry of Culture for the same content, I fear that we will repeat one exercise that has already been seen in this mandate. This is a law that has been introduced with regard to the guarantee of the obligation of the University of Primorska. Instead of supporting the amendments, not all Members of the various parties were invited, but not all Members of the various parties, but they said no, we cannot support the budget. On the second day, they filed a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, only MPs from certain parties have signed, so it seems nice that they have arranged that others are not capable. But these are such low-level arguments that you can't afford to buy, and in fact here the story will repeat itself. We're not going to vote. Something else is going to happen during the summer. I've told you again what's going to happen, big headlines in the papers, and then there's going to be some reallocations, but it'll always go out of budget. We already know that in advance, we're gonna meet next year at the end of the year and we're gonna say it. That's why I would appeal to you to have so much sense and to support this amendment. However, I agree that there is a need for a change of legislation, which I have already said, and that the law is extremely poorly written and there are a number of other things that do not belong to this debate and we will restore them in another case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u221	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring the Ministry of Transport to the budgetary user. In the framework of the sub-programme for the construction of motorways, one amendment has been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate, which was not the case. Before we vote, I ask, who wants to explain their voice? Not at all. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 18 votes to 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the sub-programme of public service in rail transport and to the debate on the three amendments proposed by, for the first time, the Group of Social Democrats. Another time. Proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. And the third time. Proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. I am opening the debate on all three amendments at the same time. Who wants a word? Comrade Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u222	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues. The Slovenian national party has tabled two amendments to the 2006 supplementary proposal, namely to maintain railway infrastructure and to maintain passenger stations. The reasons are completely simple. Railway lines in the country of the Republic of Slovenia have been proven to be damaged, tracks have been used, security signalling is inadequate. The basic burden is too weak in the Republic of Slovenia compared to the entire surrounding area, and Europe in general. The tires are in very bad shape. While the whole of Europe has 25 tonnes of basic pressure, we still have 22 and a half. the consequences are not only in the area of safety, of many railway accidents, but they are economic, as there are many cancellations of contracts, so that Slovenian railways transport huge quantities of goods from different countries. If we add to this very bad security signals, which are often the cause of many accidents, most often with a fatal outcome, then the image is perfectly clear. The two amendments from two areas address not only safety but also rail development and, above all, economic development. However, if we add to this the desire for a two-tier railway connected to one of the biggest ports in this part of Europe, this is the port of Koper, then the story is clear. Unless, colleagues and colleagues, you will not support this amendment, I expect and hope that these amendments will give the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Economy much warning that there is a great deal to be done on this segment by 2008. If we do more now, there'll be less work later. But if we do nothing, there will be such economic damage that you will, we will all ask a lot of questions together and it will cost us a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u223	Thank you, Comrade Barovich. I call on Ambassador Majdo Potrat to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u224	I would like your support for the amendment under order number one, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. I am probably one of the most common users of rail services in this National Assembly. Thus, from my own practice, I know what it means to modernise the railway line on the route Ljubljana-Maribor for the development of rail passenger transport and also freight transport, in particular with regard to the provision of higher speeds. Unfortunately, the budget item, which is intended to increase speed on the Ljubljana-Maribor route, has left out funds for bridge rehabilitation. If we want to ensure safe driving, it is likely that the Drava Railway Bridge really needs renewal, and this is what this amendment is talking about. It also speaks of the need to provide funds for the reconstruction of the Maribor railway station. It is true that a total of 360 million tolars are earmarked for the renovation of the roof, but comprehensive reconstruction is required by the railway station, which is now also the border crossing point. So I hope you will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u225	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Commissioner Christian Janz.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ministers and secretaries! When we look at the sequence of many amendments proposed by our colleagues, we can see that we do not need the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Slovenia, because in fact it does not need money and it is not necessary because any other amendment would draw money from it. The question is whether it's something in place or if it's a trick to take money from the military, give it to traffic, give it to the railways, give it to the infrastructure. That seems a little irresponsible to me. That is why I believe that what the government has prepared and what has gone through the committee itself, and all this story is now "breathing" here again, I believe that the rare amendments will "drink water". Because it's simple, if we take the money there, then something's gonna go down there. It's a logical matter. I don't think there's an item that's so overblown that a few billion people could take the General Staff and give it to, for example, traffic. I'd like that, too, if I could, but I know that there are some guidelines in the budget, some arguments, how much someone needs to function and so simply take now there 500, there's a billion, there's two billion, hand over to someone else and populism take the army and give for the road, what's better, that's great, but it would be hard for me to buy. However, I've already made some budgets, or smaller, local structures, than this when I'm looking at these things right now. That the railways are fed maximum, we all know that. The infrastructure's bad, we all know that. There's not enough money in the other one, we all know. We have been saying this for some time at various meetings of the National Assembly, as committees, as representatives of the government, to be sure. I believe that the Ministry of Transport is therefore a welcome amendment and I would be happy to accept it if I could, but I'm sure we can't do it that way and just take some of the ministries or "general staff" and say so, because you don't need the money, let's put it on the railways, they need it more. Everyone needs it probably, one like the other, and railways and roads, education, culture, sport, etc. That's why I think it's kind of a way of taking the budget a little bit, almost unusual, or wasting time on a matter that's already been dealt with on one level, for a long, several hours on the Finance Board and now here again. At the end of the day, the spoils will be as they were before we started the session. Right, it's a debate, but in a way, I think this is kind of funny sometimes. The way the budget and these amendments are adopted, wasting time, I would call it home-made. I will not support these amendments because they seem rather unrealistic and unfounded and literally do not drink water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u227	Thank you. My word is Happy Hwauca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I'm sure I'm one of the first ones to spend more money on the railroads. The fact is that the state of the railway infrastructure is about one way or another, even worse, as described by colleague Barovic and the railway or infrastructure will in fact need to be allocated a lot more resources in the future. It is also true that we had a programme for the development of railway infrastructure, which was adopted in 1995, if I am not mistaken and has been realistic, I find it difficult to estimate, but in a very low percentage, around 20% or somewhere. The only project that was actually implemented was those few kilometres of new route towards Hungary. From this point of view, of course, this railway infrastructure is in fact necessary and requires greater maintenance, regular investment and, of course, other investments. Like I said. I would absolutely agree to give more money for infrastructure, but the problem is where to take it. I agree with what my colleague has said if we want to have an army that won't be able to function, then we'll take it all and we'll have, I don't know, infrastructure on the one hand, and on the other hand some institutions that won't work. That's why I can't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u229	Thank you. I call on the Secretary of State, Mr Žnidaršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u230	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! In fact, I would like to add the following to the amendments mentioned above. That the segment relating to the construction and infrastructure, which has already been covered in some other amendments, represents some vital investments in the next period for the needs of the Slovenian army. One such investment is an investment in a cadet, which has already been exposed today as one that is welcome. Investment in the Mlaka shooting site, investments in certain ranges and in certain sports facilities necessary for the soldiers to be mentally and physically prepared as necessary. Second item, training of the military composition of the Slovenian Army. This item is intended primarily for the contractual reserve, together in Slovenia we decided to establish a professional army with a contractual reserve. If the assets referred to in this item are moved to another item, the contractual reserve is no longer available. In particular, I have put together amendments for construction and infrastructure. If everyone had been accepted, the Ministry of Defence would have owed 200 million at the start of the budget. But if you were still on the war force, about 2 billion 300 on the war force alone. So I think it is important for some functioning of the Slovenian Army in the future to have gradual growth, both infrastructure and contractual reserves, which we plan to complete in 2010 to 5 000 500 and we have planned in the following year 700. Believe me, we have planned very carefully and very carefully and that these items, which increase in the positions of the Slovenian Armed Forces, are not accidentally increased, but are increased because of the fact that there are concrete activities in the actual functional professionalization of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u231	Thank you. The next on the list of applicants is Ambassador Franz Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I'm talking about a sub-programme for public service in rail transport. I am very pleased that some of them are also trying to resolve the situation on Slovenian railways in this way, on the other hand, if all of these amendments were adopted today, they would probably lose the Slovenian 'general staff' and the Slovenian armies, or the Slovenian army and 'general staff', but they would not have been given normal funding and salaries. This is also the second truth, and it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport to talk about the Maribor railway station, which is the door to Europe through Šentilj, which will be closed. The facade, the roof is gone, if you're a passenger and you're using a train station, you're in great danger that something can happen to you in any bigger wind, snowstorm, you have to be very careful not to get hurt. The second thing I'd like to point out. Today I have already talked here about third-rate state bureaucrats, who are centralists and centralised, who only care about certain things. My colleague, Srečko Hvauc, well knows the difficulties he faced as President of the Board of the Agency in adopting the 2005 financial programme and when they adopted the 2005 financial programme. The Secretary of State, who is sitting among us today, knows exactly what the problem is. And I'm not going out of politeness and culture into content itself. However, clearly and loudly in this place, I would like to point out that everyone who has given such a task or a different task will be responsible for any accident that will take place on the Slovenian Railways. And then there won't be an apology - it will be accurately recorded, where and who ordered something. The government must start with the rehabilitation of Slovenian railways, and those responsible for this. I do not believe that the state budget will continue to be able to cover those financial deficits on the Slovenian railways that have been created due to the failure to reorganise. Railways are not dealing with themselves, railways are working on how to get to Minister Bajuk and convince him to cover a financial hole between 20 and 30 billion. However, no one deals with how to carry out the rehabilitation of this important company for the Slovenian economy within the Slovenian Railways. Just like we did in the Slovenian ironworks. Look where we have the Slovenian ironworks today, and what a mess they've been in! No! No! Some lobbyists within the Slovenian Railways and also at the Ministry are working on how to change the law on rail transport, the administrative rights that the current Railway Agency in Maribor has to transfer to the contractor, user or operator on Slovenian Railways, that is to this company. Thus, state property management of state investments will be entrusted to a company that will lose 20 billion annually! It's not like we're dealing with each other and being saved. Here is the responsibility, Mr Verlič, of you and those responsible for this, as the executive branch of the authorities, to carry out the rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railways in this way. Not by transferring administrative rights from the agency to other parts. Here's your second responsibility. The Association of European Railway Managers is not stupid and well knows what moves are meant for this area in the future. I think that the operators of European railways and infrastructure have already reacted and will react more or less if the government follows such trends, some individual trade unions within Slovenian railways that want to subordinate state investments. You know, honourable fellow Members, to imagine that we are in the middle of Europe, we are in the midst of a European order, and we want to transfer national governance rights to the company and the utility, if Austria wants to drive on Slovenian railways, a competitive company will charge a competitive company from the European Union. This is completely wrong. I would therefore like to point out here that it is necessary to start thinking about how the company will be reorganised and, in line with some of the acts already adopted, will lead to positive operations, without some State aid, and that we will have Slovenian railways ready for European competition, and that they will be able to provide those jobs that are very important on Slovenian railways and also represent a social trend in Slovenia. Otherwise, it can happen to us that competition from neighbouring countries, as we say, will hit us on Slovenian tracks, Slovenian railways, and in this way companies will be in even more difficult situations than they are today. I will therefore be very pleased that the individual representatives, both in the government and in some other bodies, will have to start to think that the rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railway company is necessary and will also bring about the reorganisation of railways in a way that will be ready for the entry of European competition and that any such amendment that we have here today will be superfluous and the system will function as it should.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u233	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Majdo Potrat to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u234	Thank you. Regarding the characterisation of this amendment on seriousness or non-resistance, I am certainly not an expert on railways as a master of Slovenian literature, but the amendment was prepared and substantively defined by people who are familiar with railways. As far as water is concerned, it's like this. A man gets water if he goes to a train station in the rain and wants to go somewhere. In the water, I hope no train will fall due to a poor resistance, the left foothold on the Drava Bridge. But surely there will be a lot of business in the water that our country could obtain by transport because our country's main traffic flows will be avoided. It is not a complete unknown fact that the Austrians were thinking about 'banana', so they say to take the railway from Vienna, Graz to the west of Slovenia and Italy. And they decided to do so because it does not appear that Slovenia could quickly reorganise and strengthen the tracks from Šentilj to Kopra. What economic damage will arise is another matter, and then we will talk about drinking water. And just as we decide to update the railway from Prague to the Hungarian border, it would probably be good to think about updating the railway from Maribor to Šentilj. Sir, there may be some funny things for someone, but it is true that when a person compares what is falling on Slovenian roads, it can be carried along the railway and laughter can pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u235	Are you applying to the replica or to the debate? For the debate. Then you'll wait a little longer. The next on the list of applicants is Member Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u236	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! As my fellow Member Srečko Hvauc said, I would like much more money for the tracks of Slovenian railways, but it is still necessary to come from some reality. However, if you did not distance yourself too far from the amendments that are before us, you would, of course, say that they should be confirmed. But we have to be real and honest again. I have here to commend my colleague Potrato, who is a truly faithful and long-standing user of rail services, and from the first hand we can learn that the situation she described is catastrophic, worrying, and above all serious. And it's only a matter of time before passengers can walk safely through the Maribor train station, so that they don't get a piece of interference or something harder on their heads, so that we don't close our eyes when it rains, when the pass not only on the platform, but also down at the train station at the Maribor train station. And not the Maribor train station is the only one that needs a thorough reconstruction. The rich architectural heritage of the mountain line and other tracks at the railway stations is immeasurable and represents a great wealth. We should also be aware of this in particular in the part of the budget where these items for the reconstruction and preservation of this architectural heritage belong. However, if everyone knew once again and I had the feeling that so many words, so many serious warnings and so many serious approaches in the National Assembly, on the various working bodies, on the home committees of the National Assembly and on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as has been the case since I was sent to the Parliament, I have not observed this in the past. I hope and wish that, in line with budget planning, we will plan the budget so that we do not deal with the many amendments we have here today. And perhaps to conclude, advice may be given to proposers of individual amendments. Since the proponents are coming out and looking for possible resources and find these resources always in the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, it might be right that many cars and many techniques of the Slovenian army are not rolling along the roads. Maybe it would be right for you to crash on a number of Slovenian railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u237	Thank you. I would like to take the floor and invite a representative of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u238	Dear Members and Members of the National Assembly! I thank you for your debate on the issue of the Slovenian rail system, although it does not directly touch on these amendments. I understand from the debate that we are all aware of the great responsibility towards the Slovenian rail system and that this system would be as successful as possible. It is also very clear that without a successful, good infrastructure there cannot be a good carrier. To this end, the government has drawn up amendments to rail legislation that reorganise the rail system in such a way that they can become successful and competitive, without success and without good infrastructure, we cannot have a successful carrier. Unfortunately, the legacy remained as honourable fellow Member Hvauc said in his debate. If the national programme adopted in 1996 had been fully implemented, the picture today would have been different. This is how we now see this task of modernising infrastructure, and we can see a successful rail system in connection with both infrastructure and transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u239	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Rudolph Petan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. We are all aware of the problems on the railway. We're probably united here, and there's no problem here. But problems arise when we move on. We are all still united that something has to be done. So far, there have been problems when we had an old organization, a single company, and all of those were losses. Okay. We set up a new organization, and I'm not gonna say that it was just for us to get rid of the losses, no one said that. We set up a new organization, and they turned out to be exactly the same problems, and there were some additional problems. Thus, we have not changed in essence anything but something that some over some bookkeeping matters have shown a profit, but then it turns out that the losses are even greater or that the losses continue to rise, so that we have done nothing. And if we are united that something needs to be done, then the organization will probably have to do something. And if this organization is not good and there are losses, but the previous was not good, and there are losses, it is said that much needs to be done both at the organization and probably at something else. The next thing I would like to say is that, as I recall from the budget's rebalancing, we were also discussing here that the government has earmarked some additional 20 billion funds to cover losses, and some other things, so that I will not waste my time to stay away from it. I can say that for the first time it has happened that it has been made clear that the government has provided a very large amount of money with an act in billions of amounts to help railways. It wasn't there before, but we've always only talked about highways. That's not what happened now. I'd rather say they were more involved with counterfeit diplomas, but we've only been talking about billions of aids for railways in the last year. I also agree that it can happen to us that business will go away. That's right. But on the other hand, I am not somehow going together, that some, unfortunately, even at my end of Slovenia insist that the railway connection, which goes from Trieste and comes to Trieste, to Budapest, would not go through this corridor, which we also built additionally over Hodoš, but to go over Maribor and Gradec. This is not good for Slovenia. It may be good for those 20 kilometers as many as there are here, but for the other 50, 60 kilometers, if the longer route across Slovenia was over Ptuj and the Ljutomer and the Murska Sobota and the Hodosh, it would probably fall out and we would build those 25 kilometers from Murska Sobota to Hodoš for free. And this is our internal matter that we're going to have to clear up. I would say that a systematic approach is needed, just with an amendment, which, okay, can also be solved, but it has to be systematically, so I think there's a willingness in this government, because otherwise 20 billion "split" sorry, that's a little bit more than a "scratch" in twenty billion. And if that's what the government did, then it's obviously some serious will to do something. Like you say, when you're preparing files, paper programs, that's one thing. But when you give 20 billion extra money, it's a more serious matter. And if this government has done so, then I am sure that even within the government and within the framework of the accounts prepared on a regular basis, without any additions, the government will take this seriously. And I'm sure if someone gives 20 billion, that they have serious intentions, that some, I don't know, some job, some organization is also being rehabilitated. I look at railway solutions more through a systematic approach than on some other side, although this is also commendable, even with small steps we come a long way. But I think it is a more proper approach if it systematically approaches and I think that this government has approached it and that it will also be able to do and repair the railway and also to devote more to the railway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u241	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Commissioner Christian Janz.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I just might have added a little 'cause I wasn't clear enough before. Slovenian railways and agency are a major Slovenian problem, both governments, Members and probably employees themselves on the Slovenian Railway. This government has seriously shown the way that it wants to slowly solve this big, big hole that is on this system. Of course, it won't be overnight, it won't be in one year, it'll definitely take years. And here, for sure, maintaining this railway infrastructure is a very important issue. It is a matter of security, it is an important element of Slovenian railways, it is certainly important that we save it on the contrary. However, when we talk about this user item, which is called the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, you obviously do not want to see it as a user. It bothers me. Taking a few billion to this user, I find it unacceptable to give what you find to be more attractive, closer or more useful. It's not what doesn't drink water. That's what I'm trying to say. It's not serious. We are aware, however, of everyone and also of the debate today, that it is imperative to continue seriously to rehabilitate the public railway infrastructure that is urgently needed in each, in every area, in every area, in every region. And this is what is very, very important to say here, and here I think we have a lot of amendments now, where the main headquarters of the Slovenian army is. It seems to me that what is not serious is irresponsible. But they can take 15 billion. How, in what way? This is what I find unresponsible, irresponsible of those who are preparing such amendments to take the money and give it to those who agree once again, this segment, public rail infrastructure certainly needs money, it has too little and too little. [[...]] We should all do something, those who are employed, the state, parliament, committee and others. However, I think we are on the right track, but the huge holes are slowly patching up and that they will be patched up over this period over the coming years, I think, on the assumption that the leadership of one and the other jobs will take a step forward in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u243	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Member Happy Hwauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u244	Thank you very much again. I fully agree with the fact that it is necessary to welcome the good purpose of the applicants who have detected problems on Slovenian railways, who have confirmed with these amendments in some way that the situation of railway infrastructure is indeed poor. It is also true that these amendments are not directly linked to the organisation of railways, but practice in the past has shown that this system has not worked effectively and successfully and that it is therefore necessary to change the way the system works or reorganise it in a way that will be more rational. I expect from the government that the law being prepared will be such that, in accordance with the European directives, it will separate the carrier from the infrastructure manager, so that the functioning of this system will be transparent that we know what resources go to public infrastructure, which are those funds that are earned on the market. However, as regards the concrete development of infrastructure, I would like to say something else that the Secretary of State may not have said, but I think it is very important. The infrastructure development programme already mentioned is practically useless, because it has actually survived and has not been sufficiently implemented, so a new document, a national programme for the development of railway infrastructure, which foresees the actual modernisation of this system, the training of the fifth and tenth corridors across the Slovenian region, and of course also requires substantial financial resources. And I am already calling today on this program to get maximum support when we discuss this programme here in this room. It's also because it's a very big project that weighs 10 and a little over billions of euros. And it will be difficult to implement from a financial point of view, but it will be essential if Slovenian railways are to play their part in the Slovenian transport area.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u245	Thank you. I give my word to a Member of the Happy Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The amendment, which is well-intentioned, says above all that there is no adequate safety and order on the tracks of Slovenian railways. If you look at the details, it is about replacing the established sites and if I focus on actual relationships, there are 18 such sites on the route Ljubljana Sežana, then Ljubljana -Jesenice 33 kretnice, Dobova - Zidani Most 15 kretniks and other things you could count, which can really cause another Divaco. We know something about human life that you can't play with. The Secretary of State, here present, you know that 20 billion would not be enough to do everything in terms of ensuring the safety and order of rail transport, it would be too little if we had them today, and you know that you have almost nothing in the budget for 2006, 2007 in this area. More. It threatens us to have to return €58 million back to the European community, because we have run European projects in an untransparent, incorrect manner, as recorded by the Railways Directorate. I expect a more serious discussion from my colleague Hvac, and he is last but not least the president of the Council of the Agency. I would also like to hear here today why we did not benefit from the construction of the second track, which we have already had for a year and a half, of 5.5 million euros available for the launch of the so-called All-Slovenian project. The Slovenian economy is waiting for this and we have done nothing. We don't have 22.5 tonnes of base pressure in the whole of Styria, we're out of contracts because we can't make up so-called commercial trains. Dear colleagues, do not say that there is nothing wrong in the transport of goods and people on the railway segment. Nothing's wrong. We are also reminded of this by Brussels, today, the Minister is seriously considering whether he will replace the Director of the Agency, not because he is guilty. 14 days ago, you barely confirmed the annual plan for the Maribor Railway Agency. Shame! The year is up, and you've confirmed the annual plan now. Please! My friend Hwauc, I'd like your criticism more seriously, even though you're in a party representing a position, I'd like you to be a railroader, really. Last time I wanted to tell you this, too. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, if there's a serious tragedy on the railroad, stick that responsibility on your chest, please. I expect you to support this amendment, which is a real wound patch. We would need more than 20 billion, we have proposed 700 million in one year and another to provide truly minimum security conditions. This is said to be an update of the signalling devices, an update of the lower and upper rail gears. And last but not least, in the Primorska area is the most frequent route of Koper-Divač. Is it not a shame that the property line, that we still have the industrial track, that we have the approved financial resources, confirmed the local and construction plan by the government, and we ask for the use of 5.5 million in 2006 for December, because we are not able to secure our own participation at the level of the Government of Slovenia? It's embarrassing. Go look at the Official Journal of the European Community from May this year and you will see that Malta has received more grants than Slovenia. Shame on us in this area, shame.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u247	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Member Happy Hwauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u248	Thank you very much. This is the third time and the last time. I know we are considering the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and not the issue of the Slovenian Railways, but I still have one thing to explain, as regards a serious or unrealistic attitude towards this rail system. Why was the budget or financial plan of the Railway Agency recently adopted? Simply because the budget adopted by the previous government did not have the resources for European projects, there were not enough resources for the ongoing maintenance of infrastructure, passenger transport and more. And until we have adopted the budget balance, we have been unable to initiate procedures for the adoption of the financial plan for so long. This was the only and key problem that led to the adoption of the financial plan so late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u249	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss the three amendments tabled in the public service sub-programme for rail transport? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the vote the first amendment proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to explain their voice? Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u250	In my name, I will explain my voice to support all these amendments. I will support them because the substantive debate on the state budget is the right debate on the rail development programme. There can be no other debate as a debate on the state budget. Of course, the particular problem is that you do not wish to confirm the proper amendments of the Social Democrats, the SNS and others, just in that you were not allowed, at the time when this budget was being prepared, to influence the right allocation of funds within the Ministry of Transport for three main purposes, i.e. motorways, state roads and railway infrastructure. If these amendments are not accepted, Slovenia will not only be in a subordinate position compared to other European countries, but will not be able to do what it should do, but it will create the right conditions for the main corridors across Slovenia. The former governments have done a lot of this, but in particular they have ensured by a sustainable highway programme and an adequate transfer of funds once these programmes have been completed, the conditions for this to be done. Since you have budgeted a highway programme to meet current needs and because you are also doing so on rail transport, everything that will be important in Slovenia will obviously be local roads between individual municipalities. This Slovenia will not develop. I therefore propose that you support the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u251	Thank you. To explain my vote, I would like to invite Mr Janko Vebra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. The maintenance of railway infrastructure is certainly one of the greatest tasks ahead of us both in this financial year and in the following years, as the situation is also on the railways, not only when we look at the state of the track in which the facilities are, including the functioning of the system itself and the operation of the rail system itself, but not at the level that would mean that we will be able to talk tomorrow about an organised approach to the development of rail transport. At least on the outside many things can be done if they approach the regulation of tracks, if they approach the regulation of facilities that serve this purpose, and thus we can expect a greater interest in making railways more interesting, either for passenger transport or for freight. Therefore, investment in infrastructure is necessary, and I also think that, when these amendments are proposed, we can probably only point out this situation because it is difficult to expect them to be supported, but we expect that the rail transport solutions will be significantly more effective than those recorded in the 2006 budget at this time. This amendment could help, so I'll support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u253	Thank you. Voice explanation, Ambassador Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We cannot support these three amendments in the New Slovenia Group. Why? The financial cake we call the state budget has fixed constant dimensions. When we table amendments, there is a law, a physical law to preserve the dimensions of this financial cake. Of course, we would immediately support the first parts of these three amendments, because we are still aware of the situation on our railways. We are aware that it will once be necessary to provide some 10 billion in order to pull this heavy locomotive that we inherited forward. I simply want to stress once again what we have already been reminded of by the Finance Minister Dr. Bayuk. We're in NATO contact. The State of Slovenia has committed itself to providing 2% of GDP for defence in 2008. For 2006 it has to provide 1.78% of GDP, and for 5 billion more we are lagging behind. I thank the Secretary of State, Mr Žnidaršič, who calculated, took the calculator and counted how much we took from the Slovenian Army, I think that such a calculator should be taken by the proponents first. Once again, it must be realized that the law on the preservation of the dimensions of the financial cake, which we call the state budget, is in force. We will oppose these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u255	Thank you. Member Happy Friend has applied to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u256	Thank you. Dear President! My vote will be in favour of this amendment, and I would also like to urge you to take reasonable action and press the button this time. We're not far from this. I'll tell you again that there's another Wildling. Just because you read the Primorska news, you will see, I myself called in a sentence that I would prefer to invite passengers not to ride the trains anymore, because it endangers their lives. I mean it. I mean it. I was a railroad man myself, and I know. Look at the timetable, today it has increased by 4% during transport. The Secretary of State shall have a new timetable, if he is well-known and decent. Let it indicate the difference in the transport of passengers from point A to point B between the old timetable and the new one. And why did this time increase? For safety reasons, we've got a slow ride. We stop trains on every train. Gentlemen, this is no longer safe, this is no longer normal! And if an amendment is proposed to replace the actual vital parts of the lower track structure, that means it is necessary, and the government should not overlook it. And that's why I'm asking you to support this amendment. On the Divača-Koper route, we have diesel locomotives that help to push the electric locomotive, because the steering line is so used that it can burn and all of a sudden fall down if we load the steering line with full force. It's urgent work and it's written here in these amendments. Be reasonable and support this if the government has overlooked it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u257	Thank you. The last vote to be tabled is Mr Šteba.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The three amendments would like to transfer €10 million from Slovenian military lines to an understandable and urgent recovery, already due to dangerous and poor maintenance, of railway infrastructure. I am aware of the fact that the rehabilitation and modernisation of rail infrastructure would require EUR 10 billion, more than EUR 20 billion. What condition did this government inherit? We have entered into and signed a contract for NATO, but at the same time, this government or this coalition has taken on such an impossible state. What you're suggesting isn't the solution. At the same time, we are lagging behind in completing the construction of other infrastructures, transport infrastructures for 30 years. Now put this formula together. I don't even know where the solution is. But there will certainly be something decisive to be done. It may even turn over a part of the infrastructure that we are unable to finance, modernise and even maintain regularly, in some concessional way to the one who is capable of doing so. Timely and financially, of course, we cannot, in due course, be in a position not to put ourselves in a position to endanger the safety of traffic, passengers and cargo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u259	Thank you. Since we no longer want to explain our voices, we are moving on to a decision. We will first decide on the first amendment to the public service sub-programme for rail transport, the proposaler of the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 38. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the same sub-programme by the proposaler of the Slovenian National Party Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 37. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment under the same sub-programme proposed by the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 36. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. However, we are moving on to the new budget user of the Slovenian Civil Aviation Authority. In the framework of the airport sub-programme and airport infrastructure, one amendment has been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Excuse me, Comrade Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u260	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! We are under the sub-programme of the budgetary users of the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. If we took a good look at the budget, we could figure it out. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u261	Comrade Kangler, if you'll excuse me. I ask all Members to calm down, I have already said yesterday, if it becomes unsustainable, whether it is because of the hour, lack of concentration or anything else, I will interrupt the meeting. Members, it's up to you. The text is exclusively and only Member of Parliament Franz Kangler. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u262	that we have only two items on this programme in the budget, indicating that we are neglecting this transport branch in the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] This is what we are very much neglecting for both civil aviation and freight transport. In view of the money within the Ministry of Transport, given some of the programmes we are committed to building motorways, state roads, rail infrastructure, I think we also need to change our relationship to this transport sector. And it's not the State Secretary's fault or the Minister's that they're ignoring it. I can honestly tell you that both of you are going to have to double-cross the aviation department a little bit, strengthen it, and I think they're going to be limping inside the department some things. Transparency does not run for development or for the Brno airport where there are no problems with the agreement to change ownership of land for another terminal, transparent talks for the Treaty on the Use of State Infrastructure at the Maribor airport, nor are there transparent talks on the portor airport to extend the runway, so that up to 50-seat jet or propelling aircraft can land and may receive a little more congress tourism in Portorož in some months than we have today. All of Europe has been giving much more to aviation development recently, and it is investing much more in aviation infrastructure. In Slovenia we find, alone as Chairman of the Transport Committee, that this branch, transport of cargo and passengers is somewhat neglected. That is why I appeal to you, Madam Secretary of State, and also to inform the Minister that you will strengthen the Aviation Directorate and that you will examine some of the segments and spend a little more money on developing airport infrastructure for all the three airports that I have listed today. This is also essential in view of the fact that this is the main airport, given that Ljubljana will be the President of the European Union in 2008 and that certain investments are urgently needed at this airport. This is where the country has to stand on the sidelines of conversation. I can't imagine that some third-rate bureaucrat holding a decision in the Ministry, when and how the land should be transferred to the company or whether there will be a sale contract or a donation or a replacement, I can't find a suitable term. However, it is essential that this land is able to start an investment with another terminal in order to enable the company, Brnik Airport, a shareholder company and thus allow for a larger number of destinations in this area. And when Ljubljana is a guest in 2008 and guests will come to Slovenia, to the Brno airport, that they will feel that they are indeed in the European Union and that we can set an example for many European countries. That's why I'm calling on you to explore the possibilities and, I tell you the truth, outwit the Air Force Directorate. After all, as Chairman of the Committee on Transport, together with the members of the Committee, I find that there are some 40 sub-legislative acts missing in the field of aviation. The year will be around, in May or April we found this data in Maribor and it will certainly be necessary to recapitulate the adopted acts. This is what we have warned members of the Transport Committee in due time. I see now that this Directorate will need to be strengthened, reshape and ensure that aviation develops evenly, along with state roads and highway programmes and state rail infrastructure. Given the time we live in, a little more money needs to be spent to modernise state aviation infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. But I can't support this amendment. I'm very sorry. But I can't support him because he's taking the Ministry of Defense. As far as I am aware, colleagues from DeSUS have already ensured that they should adopt, or continue to adopt, an amendment to allocate funds to invest in the rehabilitation of a disabled organisation in Maribor. To be honest, I cannot support this amendment, even though it is absolutely necessary. However, I am grateful to the coalition partners that they have so much obedience that they have convinced their minister and agreed to it. If it were our will, that amendment, if I'm not mistaken, of 151 million, would also be accepted for 2006. Thank you so much again if I don't have a chance next time. But I am very grateful that we are not acting like a bulldozer here today, but that we can actually negotiate and also talk, which is also the image of coalition behavior, a little bit different than it used to be. Again, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u263	Thank you. I give my word to Maja Patrati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u264	Thank you. Perhaps it would be good to repeat the debate on the previous amendment only if it was a different type of transport. And if we constantly listen to the evidence of where we cover the funds, it is also possible to find out from that source that it would have direct effects or benefits if the airport in Maribor were to be able to, say, when the Schengen border was established, some things could be done properly through the Maribor airport. Not to mention that we are all stressing the need for increased competitiveness of our economy and for coherent regional development. The outlook for the economic development of Maribor depends in many ways on logistical support. And training at the Maribor airport is part of this. It seems to me that it is very important for both passenger and other transport in order for this airport to be given the opportunity, since in public opinion we could read about how the interest in the use of the Maribor airport is also increasing among carriers of low-cost companies. The amendment, as it is said, is not narrowly localistic, but is essential for the development of infrastructure, transport infrastructure in Slovenia. I hope you will, however, be able to support some of what we have been trying to prepare as an offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u265	Thank you. Does anyone else wish to discuss the sub-programme, airport and airport infrastructure in connection with the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats' Group? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. Before we go to the vote on this amendment, I ask if anyone wants to explain their vote? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. The amendment was voted 19 to 35. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, namely the sub-programme, investment maintenance and construction of state highways. We have 19 amendments tabled under this sub-programme. We will discuss all the nineteen amendments at the same time, so I ask every debater to tell which amendment his debate is related to. Comrade Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u266	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues: It is reasonable that, of course, between the 250 amendments, even with all good will and cooperation, it is not possible for everyone to be accepted. The Slovenian National Party tabled a third of the amendments on the website of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads. I'm not going to explain all six because time is precious and the content is important, but I'm going to warn you two. First, on the amendment tabled by Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, and in which we want 70 million dollars for Koroška. Why? It was decided that the project, which had its own label at Slovenj Gradc, was to move and move and move, despite the fact that it was ensured that the project would be implemented in due course. Such a decision to withdraw, withdraw and withdraw in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party for the common good of this country and one of the statistical provinces, I stress once again, is not good. I will draw attention to one more, although then there are four more, and this is linked to the decision of this National Assembly on the 2005 budget balance. This is the amendment I tabled, Bogdan Barovic, for a sum of 40 million dollars. By these means, we would like to resume what we have started, thus building a common good. The road is state-run, for the first time. Secondly, it's very dangerous, so we'll build common security. Thirdly, since this country has built a road cross and is the entrance to the highway from two ends in Zasavje, from Troyan and Prebold, this road also connects the Zasavčany, Trbovljčane with Prebold and entering the highway. Last but not least, since we have already started this project in Trbovje, it would mean that this project would have already started with a semi-broken house at the time of the buy-back, stalled for two, three, four or five years, which would, of course, have put us in a very bad state. Once again, I stress that this is one of the most dangerous sections in this narrow, yet in the end, I will say, beautiful valley. An amendment for 40 million tolars, if it's good will, I'll say good will, I'll be very happy. All you need is a majority vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u267	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Kontić, I would just like to remind you that there has been a change in the amendment tabled, which you have on sent-off benches under order number 12. We continue the debate. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have found or some have found that rail traffic is not safe. In the field of aviation, 40 sub-legislative acts are missing, as stated by the Chairman of the Transport Committee. How safe our roads are, we all know. Most of our rivers are not sailing, but the lakes are too small. It is said that there are very few safe routes left across our country and I think that if we approach the rehabilitation of existing roads, which have been neglected in the past, the least cost will be neglected because of the construction of the traffic cross in Slovenia, but with the other roads there is one large cross, but another, not a traffic cross. I also support the efforts of my colleague Barovic and the amendment, which ties in somehow and regulates the road in the region of Koroška. The region of Koroška and the region of Savina-Shale are certainly subject to the so-called third development axis. On this axis, the Slovenian government has also been on this axis twice, and in the province of Savina Shaleska, the future, they have come across approval mainly when they spoke about the future of the province, about the development of this province. And all of this is linked to better traffic connections, especially road connections. It was similar in Koroška, they were warned about traffic congestion and even in Koroška, it was said that the government is seriously considering and supporting efforts on the so-called third development axis, and this is certainly a good project. By the third development axis, however, it will take some time if as the backbone of this third axis we think of a highway or fast road that connects Koroška with Savinsko-Shaleška to the highway cross and then continues to Croatia. So until then, there will be some time, and by then it will be necessary to arrange roads and at least to train them for as much safe and flowful traffic as possible. And these amendments, which are filed under order numbers 22, 23, 24 and 25, are somehow from this space. The money is intended for rehabilitation, reconstruction of the existing Arja Vas - Velenje road, dangerous roads, so dangerous; let me say that some time ago they said it was difficult to determine where the black point is on this road, but I am sure that because of the fact that these black points stick together and it is difficult to locate them in one particular place. And since the government predicted only 50 million in the following year to rehabilitate this road, I have tabled an amendment that adds 150 million more to these 50 million, and this would certainly allow sufficient intervention on this road. As important as this road is, it is also a scarf road that somehow passes through Velenje and is the main connecting axis of Koroška through Velenje towards Arja village. This road is also foreseen in the development programmes, there are three circulars, but with the plans proposed by the government, we are certainly lagging behind the plans drawn up by the previous government, which would mean that we will be able to make the first circle in the next year and then the second and third. And because we also believe in this space that this is a very important project, we also have here some additional resources from the Social Democrats' Group to enable the actual implementation of the project, as planned by the government before the current government. It is also important to connect with Koroška another road and very in desperate condition is on the Velenje-Škala route and right where we made a certain reconstruction on the basis of the funds planned by the previous government this year, and it remained part of the road, which is equally dangerous and necessary for reconstruction, so we also devote some of the resources to this part. And another road is, which somehow also serves to unload the main road Arja vas-Velje, this is the road Velenje-Polzela, long-lasting, destroyed, dangerous. This one also needs to be restored. And when there was a speech today that a calculator should be taken and counted where the funds are being taken, this time the General Staff of the Slovenian Army is not being taken, the Slovenian military is not being taken, they are being taken from the area of domestic debt. Although this comparison, which you have cited as a necessity to calculate, is inappropriate, since there is no way that all amendments will be accepted, much closer is the option that none of these amendments will be adopted. I am certainly asking all those who are listening to this third development axis announced by the government in its programmes advocated by the government, when driving on these roads or when government representatives are travelling on these roads and visiting these areas, that they are aware of the fact that it is really necessary to regulate transport infrastructure, if we do not want to stifle the economy in Savinja-Shaleska Valley, not to mention Koroška, who has an additional problem, how to proceed from Velenja then to Koroška and I am sure that Members know this part of Slovenia and that you will consider whether it is worth supporting the proposed amendments of the Social Democrats' Group and contributing to the resolution of major obstacles to the further economic development of this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u269	Thank you. I, too, ask the Members and Members who will apply for the debate to indicate, in the context of their debate, the amendment to which they touch it in their content, in order to facilitate the monitoring of the debate. Next on the list is colleague Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u270	Thank you. Let me introductoryly say that I support all the amendments that provide more resources in the field of investment maintenance and construction of state roads. This is an area that is still important if we want to ensure coherent development of all parts of Slovenia or at least comparable to other parts. Surely, in the 2006 budget, we are still missing an appropriate act, a so-called transport policy that could specify exactly why and where we will invest from highways, where those projects are prepared, where solutions are priority, where solutions cannot be managed because of certain strategic documents adopted in this budget. I am thinking mainly of Natura 2000, which will require further environmental impact assessments for all those areas where Natura 2000 is adopted. And if I just mention the road through the Ljubljana Bar, which is supposed to solve the connection of road G2 106, this is Ljubljana - Škofljica - Kočevje, then we can talk about adopting acts that on the one hand make it impossible to design. The implementation of these amendments requires, in particular, projects designed. In order to draw on the funds diverted from the highway to the state roads, projects will also be needed in particular. Therefore, the debate on the maintenance and construction of state roads would be significantly better if we had a transport policy adopted, which should contain all these key elements. I would therefore like to point out to the Ministry of Transport that it is not waiting for routes to be placed in an environment where the problem with Natura 2000 is linked. Where such a project is placed in the environment, it is necessary to draw up alternative measures, to define substitute areas, and this is something that this government, especially the Ministry of the Environment, does not do in this financial year, not in the following year, I do not think that it will be able to implement in the next millennium. If we really want to achieve a coherent development and a balanced modernisation and maintenance of state roads, then I would like to ask and point out these problems that the Ministry is not working on short-term measures, because in 2006 and 2007, substantial highway resources will be used and never again in history, I am sure there will be no such opportunity as now in this budget. Debt on motorways will be extremely high because, for the first time, the outflow of the highest quality assets, the petrol toll, secondly, because the interest rate announced by the EU will also increase and the costs of the loans hired will also be significantly higher than they would otherwise be. If appropriate measures are not implemented this year and good grounds for further development, some areas will be cut off from development options in the long term. Therefore, it is essential that additional money is needed, which will not in fact cause difficulties in implementation, because it is a specific project which obviously also has documentation produced and will certainly alleviate the problem of drawing funds from the highway programme, so that even for those areas where this development cannot be implemented in the 2006 budget, of course it could also take place in a timely fashion. So I hope that these amendments, at least some, will be supported and thus also allow for the development of those areas which the Government has either consciously excluded or because of the problems already mentioned with Natura 2000 from its programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u271	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u272	Thank you for your word. Allow me to mention another amendment, namely the amendment number three, an amendment in which 50 million Slovenian tolls are allocated for reconstruction in the Slovenian National Party and thus for a safer road. It's a road between Maribor and Ptivo. We can say that this is certainly the most burdened state road in the Republic of Slovenia. That the situation on this road is unsustainable, they also testify every time, I will say a weekend of stalemate stretching from Maribor all the way to Ptuj. In the Slovenian National Party, we know that the government is planning to build the so-called Phyrn Highway, and that part of the Podravska Strak would urgently need the said or mentioned financial resources, particularly for minimum road interventions with a view to unloading, safety and traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u273	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Drag Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u274	Thank you so much for saying that. I have decided that in this item of investment in the maintenance and construction of state roads, I will call because it seems to me that this is the only item that does not have legal obligations, because the funds are already distributed and therefore I am not surprised that so many amendments have been tabled on this item. I must say that I must join my fellow Member Kontic here and that I fully agree with his explanation and the amendments he has tabled that the problem of these, this third development of the axis, which is so remote in time, is causing this great economic damage, both in the Shaleska Valley and in Koroška. That is why I decided that I would support the amendments relating to this area 22, 23, 24 and also ask my fellow Members to support these amendments. In fact, this autumn it happened daily that the Arja Vas Velenje road was closed due to traffic accidents, heavy traffic accidents, that there was a multi-hour prison here, and that Gorenje, Rudnik and the rest of the economy in our valley, whose daily production depends on a time-bound supply, so to speak, was very, very damaged. That's why I'm asking you to support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u275	Thank you. The last one on the list is only Member Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! My discussion will go in the direction of five amendments, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19, so I will ask myself rhetorically what is common to Koroška, Savinja-Shaleski region, White Krajina, Kočevski, Idrija-Cerkljan region, and Poljanski and Selska valley to the Upper Soča. All of these areas are the total traffic distance from the centre of the country and from the highway cross. In 2004, the former government, or more precisely the Ministry of Transport, drafted a national programme to modernise the national road network of national importance worth about 180 billion tolars. This government, which has now taken over our country's leadership, has set itself an even more ambitious plan, but has not yet fulfilled its promise. The Minister of Transport has repeatedly said that such a national programme or resolution will be sent to the National Assembly by the end of this year. This programme is supposed to be more ambitious, about 700, 800 billion tolars, but as far as I know, it has not been accepted by the government, let alone to be sent to the National Assembly. I would therefore appeal to the Ministry to coordinate this as soon as possible and to make a comprehensive programme to modernise the state road network. I'm a little worried about the Minister of Transport's announcements, mag. Janez Bozič, since we were able to read in the daily Work on 7 December, where the journalist took his contribution entitled "From built motorways to railways". So again, the ignored state roads, at least that's how the journalist who wrote about this contribution interpreted the minister's press conference. He says: "The Ministry's view on the future is aimed at regulating transport infrastructure. In the first place, there will be railway infrastructure," we have already heard much about this in this hall, "with 10.7 billion tolars and with more than 3 billion euros followed by state roads." It is said that state roads are at a different stage, and I find it difficult to believe whether the Minister of Transport's promise in this national programme is realistic or not. Apparently, in this country, the motorway and railway lobby is stronger than those who strive to build decent state roads in remote regions such as Koroška, Savinja-Shaleška, Bela krajina, Kočevska, Idrijajska Crkljanska etc., or Radeč, where home is my fellow Member Matjaž Han. Take a ride from the Wall Bridge once, and you will see how to reach some of the congregation centers. It would be right, I don't know if the government's prestigious cars could even go down that road to Radeč. So, I appeal to Members and Members to support the amendments that touch on the modernisation of the state road network and thus, at least for force, cover these gaps until the state prepares a national programme, which I hope will be feasible in the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u277	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u278	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like, on the subject of the amendments concerning the area of the Directorate for Roads of the Republic of Slovenia, to be defined, of course, by a representative of the Government or a representative of the Ministry of Field Affairs. For far from being dangerous roads, dangerous sections, dangerous points, that state roads do not allow for the normal development of both economic and other infrastructures are only those roads and those sections affected by these amendments. Far from being exposed to the Koro region alone. The easiest thing to say, fellow Members, is to support all the amendments. I am also in favour of this, as Mr Koren said, but I ask myself, there is no amendment to the question of how we will resolve the Polish Valley, which is virtually impossible by entering the world's network of roads. It happens to us that practically economic operators are carrying out transit traffic from Poljanska dolina via Logatc, through a totally impossible entry into the part of the Logaska quarter on the former Ljubljana highway - Trieste. There is no amendment to the question of how we will resolve the entry of transit transport and all other transport from the Poljanska Valley via Škofja Loka into further motorway and other infrastructure. You know, say, support for the amendments is very simple, but we have identified ourselves on this issue in a similar way, as far as I know, back in two mandates and it was very similar today, only that we are in a few different roles today. I am in the same role, so I say that he was unable to abolish the Slovenian army, not the General Staff, nor Dr Grizold in the previous term, and the current Minister, Mr Erjavec, cannot. I would therefore ask that the representative of the Ministry take the government's attitude towards these amendments, as well as the government's attitude towards the whole issue facing the Republic of Slovenia on the issue of the network of state roads, also through the national programme for the maintenance and construction of the network of state roads that we expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u279	Thank you for your discussion. I am aware of this, although I know that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party know that they have 8 seconds to go. Comrade Janc, you'll take advantage of them. I don't understand, thank you, but thank you. Thank you. Good. Then I give my word to the representatives of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. I would like to clarify two matters, the amendment under number one, which concerns the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and relates to the broadcasting of movable property. It's the funds the Defense Department receives from the Falcone broadcast. This asset was purchased from TRP funds and is the Ministry of Defence's dedicated revenue, so I do not think that this segment is transferable. Then I would also like to draw attention to the number eight, which speaks of the transfer of funds of 80 million from investments in fundamental development of defence forces programmes, that this item, which is in the budget of the Slovenian military, is about the earmarked funds for the recovery of principals, debts, that is to say the purchases made in previous years, and that is an obligation, but we have to cover these debts and I also predict from this item that it is not possible to redistribute funds. However, I would like to add information around international cooperation, as it has also been mentioned several times to reduce the volume of funds under this heading, the Ministry of Defence. This item is indeed bigger than last year. This increase is due to the fact that Slovenia will host an informal meeting of defence ministers at the end of September next year and we have therefore planned the appropriate funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u281	Thank you. We continue to discuss the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u282	Thank you very much. With regard to the definition of the amendments tabled, honourable Members, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support those amendments. In the light of the issues raised in the debate, however, on the issue of the development of state transport infrastructure, allow me to explain briefly to you. The transport policy document, the document of the transport policy resolution, is currently in the procedure of the national assembly. The decision of the Committee on Transport was to make a public presentation of the views on this document, which means that we will result in, in my opinion, a quality document of the resolution on transport policy, and this will be the first time that the national assembly will have this document and I am sure that it will also be adopted. As regards investment in transport infrastructure, we have heard from the debate that there is a need for major investment in the state road network, in rail infrastructure, we have heard that it is necessary to invest in airport infrastructure. In doing so, let me tell you that the economic college of the Government has commissioned the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance to prepare a harmonised document for the development of the state transport infrastructure, which is now in the final stage in December, the document will be prepared at the end of December, and this will be called a master plan with a foreign, it is said, which will show how investments should be distributed as evenly as possible to all segments, to railway infrastructure, to state roads, to airport infrastructure and also to seaport infrastructure. That's part of it. The Ministry of Transport will prepare a work on needs and the Ministry of Finance, taking into account financial models that will also take into account the private public partnership, will prepare how this Slovenia can invest in transport infrastructure in the next period in a way that will also be sustainable in terms of regional development. However, speaking of the state road network, let me repeat what you have already mentioned in the debate. In preparing the budget, the government has allocated more resources for the development of the state road network, i.e. the road network is not being neglected, but with more resources for the development of the state road infrastructure, the government has made it clear that it wants the road network, the state road network which we have taken seriously in poor shape, to improve within its programmes, and at this time 530 projects are under way, and I am confident that, even with the relevant documents you will receive on your bench, we will be able to reach better times for the development of the state transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u283	Thank you. I ask, does anyone else want a word from the Members? Message from Brad Roast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u284	I would just like to warn the Secretary of State, or it is a real transport policy that depends on how much money is available, but this ministry is running the same party all the time, saying that if anything has been wrong in the past, let the Minister attribute it to himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u285	Thank you. Before we go to the vote on the amendments to the investment maintenance sub-programme and the construction of state highways, let me just say, we are talking about 29 amendments, we will make each decision separately. Before each amendment, however, an explanation of its own vote or an explanation of the vote of the Group of Members will be possible in full. I also conclude the debate with this. So we're moving on to a decision. I am making a decision on the first amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group to the basic sub-programme, i.e. investment maintenance and construction of state highways. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 37. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment tabled to the same sub-programme proposed by the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 37. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment under the same sub-programme of the same proposer, which is the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 38. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 4 of the same proposer, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Anybody want to explain their voice? Comrade Barovic, on his behalf, on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u286	In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u287	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u288	Once again respected colleagues and colleagues, we urgently need these 40 million to continue what we started with the approved 19 million from the budget balance. Let me say that I have calculated, because this is so little compared to the budget level, I think it is right that this is a 2-pass budget, which would solve a lot of traffic congestion, provide great security and also allow older people who live just along this road to move at least 20 meters away and live normally, as do drivers and as do pedestrians, for whom there is no room at all. So that if at least one were accepted, let's say, of all of them, but if it were mine by chance, I'd be even more happy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u289	Thank you, colleague Barovich. A colleague of Gulič also applied to explain the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u290	Respectable, respectable! I support all these amendments because they are for one amendment, an amendment that is called the regime of state roads. All these roads are in some way local, but after all, Slovenians are not such local beings as to live only in their surroundings and 500 meters around, but we are moving all over Slovenia. This also forces us to concentrate our jobs in Ljubljana, Celje, Maribor and perhaps even a larger centre, so most Slovenians are forced to travel daily, not on highways, but on local, state roads. And it is probably what Mr Koren used to say that they are all equally important. This also applies to all those who have to work elsewhere, go to one of these raids at five in the morning, and you will see how they live, those who are involved in traffic. This road, which Mr Bogdan Barovic was talking about, especially because of this, because also because of the new highway becoming in some way an invasion of Trbovlje and also a refuge for many who do not want to or cannot travel on the highway, the traffic is increasing and the situation today is quite different, as it was about 5, 10 years ago. Such matters must be taken into account. State roads need to be arranged not only for those who travel by car, but also for those who travel by one-way vehicles that are even more frequently threatened by users. So I support all of these amendments, because they ultimately do what has to be done to adapt to the new situation, to those of the day before and to those of today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u291	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I find that the amendment is not accepted and that we did not cheer Bogdan Barovich up. We are moving to an amendment under order number 5, the same proposer, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 38. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 6, the same proposer, this is the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 35. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 7, the proposed parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 38. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 8, the same proposer, this is the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 37. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 9, the same candidate, the Liberal Democracy Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 38. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 10, the same motioners, the Liberal Democracy Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 37. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 37.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 11, the proposed parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 12, the proposed parliamentary club Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 13, the same proposer, this is the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 14, the same proposer, this is the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 34. (For the vote was 24.)(against 34.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order 15, a proposal for a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 21 votes against 37. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment under order number 16, the proposed parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 37. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 17, the proposed parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 37. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order 18, a proposal for a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 19, the proposed parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 37. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 20, the same candidates, which is the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 35. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 21, the same candidates, which is the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 35. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment under order number 22, the same candidates, which is the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. Here you go, Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u292	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment because it concerns the area of the third development axis, which is extremely important for the whole of the region of Koroška and also of the Shale Valley. These two areas were, in a way, still in traffic, cut off from the highway cross. The fact is that today many from Koroška have closer to Ljubljana, through Austria, than through Slovenia, and the fact is that the development of the Silesian Valley is extremely important to the area of roads between Arja village and Velenje. A third of electricity comes from the Shaleska Valley, the biggest Slovenian net exporter comes from the Shaleska Valley. Therefore, of course, there is a minimum of what we can do to support the amendment, which is improving transport infrastructure in this area. I would like to point out in particular that the various members of the administrations, companies from the Shaleska Valley area, point out that there will also be a relocation of production, the relocation of their activities from this area if transport infrastructure does not improve. This was explicitly said by the President of the Gorenje administration, Mr Bobinac, who said, of course, that Gorenje's warehouse leaves the truck every minute to two minutes and that, of course, the existing road infrastructure is such that it prevents the normal development of this company. That is why I will be the amendment that improves this infrastructure and, of course, I call on all Members, whether you are in the coalition or the opposition, to do the same, because I think it is really important for the region of the Shale Valley and Koroška. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u293	Thank you. Explanation of voice. Ambassador Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am joining, of course, my fellow Member of the Republic of New Slovenia and my fellow Member Kontić of the SD, who has also drafted this amendment. Above all, I would like to remind you that it would be correct to support this amendment because it was very much discussed at a special visit prepared for it by the former SDS Vice-President, Mr Sever, Prime Minister Janez Janša himself, when visiting this valley. And, of course, he said, we will save this road, not only that, not only that we will rebuild Arja Vasa Velenje, which would enable this means, it will also be the basis for us to start with the so-called third development axis in Slovenia. We have proposed many amendments for the third development of the axis. Some of us will continue to consider, the amendments that are here establish the conditions that by the time the third developmental axis comes to pass, those who, every so long, do so on their own a monthly basis, can return to the Shale Valley. As my colleague Lahovnik said, it is not only about the Members driving here or there, but it is about Arja Vas Velenje Road being one of the most burdened roads and if you don't believe it yourself, let the Prime Minister himself, who said it took him quite a while to leave the highway. So I will only support this amendment so that the words of Prime Minister Janez Janša at the visit to the Shaleska Valley are fulfilled and I believe that you will be able to do so by others, so I suggest you support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u295	Thank you. Explanation of voice. Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u296	Thank you very much. On this subject, it is necessary to point out some genetics of events around the third development axis. In fact, I think he is a colleague of Tanko two years ago, and we have also helped in the national highway construction programme to get this third development axis and also the road to Koroška. I think the then government did this or finally gave in to our pressure, two, three years too late. Otherwise, it would be possible to do so under a programme and, of course, this late programme does not turn out to be the case this year. I think it's nice that you've restored how positive the Prime Minister has been to this, of course, but now you're performing here as if it's possible to shake money out of your pocket right now. You know, your predecessors, as well as the then government, have been thinking about Koroška, how to connect Koroška with the center of Slovenia, and because they didn't think about it at the time, these programs actually have delays and, of course, all plans in Slovenia can't be put on their heads overnight, and that's why I think you hit a very wrong place. These are your pains and your wounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u297	My colleague Jerovšek is usually told how you will vote in the context of the explanation of vote. And we're going to vote on the amendment under number 22. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 30. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order Please allow us to complete this point. [[...]] We're moving to the amendment under order number 23. We will decide on the proposed amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 34. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 24, the proposed MEP's group of Social Democrats. Comrade Squeakle, explanation of vote, please. On behalf of the House of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u298	On behalf of the Member of Parliament, of course, I will say that we support this amendment because it is an upgrade to what the Liberal Democracy Group has done, together with the SD Group of Members and some others, when the third development axis has been included in the national highway construction programme. The problem for Mr Jerovška and some others is that this government, Mr Verlic, will confirm this, with reduced money for motorways, has prevented the third development axis from being built on the basis of the completed highway programme in due course. Now Dars will have to repay himself, now it will be necessary to raise tolls and it will not be possible to build third development axes as quickly as it was planned to take into account the national programme for the construction of motorways. As a result, money needs to be added by increasing the construction of state roads. I thank all Members, I hope you have not made a mistake, but you have only confirmed the words of Mr Janez Janša, because you have already given 150 million and I suggest that you do so again, in order to ensure, not only the preparation of documentation, but also the start of works on some very problematic parts of the road leading towards the Valley and towards Koroška. That this can be financed and nothing will prevent me from telling you, of course, that this is only for a few 10 million dollars as much money as we have taken from compensation in the second amendment after the judgment and given to those who are supposed to monitor the progress of regional policy in Koroška. Better than giving money to offices monitoring regional policy, I suggest we give additional money to build state roads, because then, of course, people in Koroška will be able to take care of themselves and we will not need any doors. So I suggest that, like Amendment 22, where I thank you once again for your support, you do so in this amendment. But if you're wrong, I can't help you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u299	Thank you. A colleague of Brenčič has the floor to present the position of the delegation, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Of course, I will gladly support this amendment and many more. Just down the river, where the bull went, let's go to the darts. However, I know that with this relationship of coalitions to the question of amendments concerning the Slovenian Roads Directorate, these villagers for Charanka and their children will still enter the school in their municipality, in their Ljubljana, only through Croatian territory, because the state of Slovenia was not able to allow physical feet, not just the jurisdictional one, to the Republic of Slovenia in 15, 16 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u301	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Comrade Sok, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u302	Thank you very much. We haven't heard from you before, but there's something I need to say about it. See, opposition gentlemen, the realisation for state roads for 2004 was 15.7 billion, and the 2006 plan is 23.7 even more for 2007, which is almost 43% of the increase in public roads. Now, of course, Mr. Squeakl, you will have to decide whether this is more, much more [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u303	Comrade Sok, allow me to remind you that we are in the voice-explanatory phase, the controversy is impossible, and I will not be able to give my colleague the chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u304	So I would like to say that, given this increase, there is no need to confirm the additional burden on this area today, and that is why we will not support these amendments in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u305	Thank you. Comrade Squeakle in his own name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u306	I will not argue with Mr Sok because this is not allowed, I will only explain that I will also support this amendment on my behalf because, as some other Members have said, the discussion on the Roads Directorate's programme has always been the discussion of all members of the National Assembly and not just one group of members of the National Assembly. And if you look at these 29 amendments, you'll see that for the first time since we've been doing the budget in this way, only the amendments of the opposition are no longer the mega amendments of the National Assembly. I don't know if these mega amendments were good or bad, but it's true that people have talked to their constituents and voters at home more easily. Mr Sok, you do not need to support the amendment, only then will it be very difficult for Mr Koren to get a mandate from where he is at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u307	Thank you, Mr. Squill. Excuse me for a moment. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Then we will wait for the Vice-President to take his place. We will vote on Amendment 24 on page 29, the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 37. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the 25th Amendment on page 30. It was tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 39. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We move to the vote on the 26th Amendment. It was proposed by the Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 66 Members present and 26 votes against 40. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are voting on the 27th Amendment, the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 39. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the 28th amendment, tabled by the LDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 38. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We move to a vote on the 29th Amendment. It was tabled by the LDS Group of Members. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u308	I'll explain why we tabled these amendments. This amendment will provide 100 million tolars of additional funds, says 3 times less than that of Damjan's Ministry, the Dragari-Osilnica road construction project and will allow people in Osilnica to have normal access to central Slovenia for the first time after independence. This is an amendment that will also allow, for example, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw the regulation on the so-called demand for Slovenia, as this amendment will allow people in Osilnica to have normal access to the centres of Slovenia and will be able to take better care of themselves on the basis of the built state road. That is why we say that the project of building this road link of lacmus paper, or the ruling coalition, is indeed an act, but not only by the laws of taking care of more coherent regional development in our country. I suggest that you support this amendment and thus provide substantive support for what is also written in the source provided by this amendment, which is a rural development programme. All this can be done, even these are domestic assets, only if you press the key that is in front of you. Everything else, as Mr Starman and I discussed on the Committee on Finance and also on Reflections, is, of course, a huge difference between words and actions. 100 million tolars that you have not been able to find in your coordination with Gregorčič are proposed here, we have spoken extensively with the motions for this amendment, and we believe that the amendment is worthy of the support of Members and Members of the National Assembly. We'll support him. We suggest you support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u309	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u310	I did not take the floor at this point because I know how this preparation of such documents is taking place and because I know how the result can also be anticipated. But this amendment is a test. If you want, we made it completely in line with your policy, and we took it where the money for the programs is, for areas in development. And look, this is the area of forestry, agriculture and ultimately you get to Kolpa also on fisheries and also supports fisheries. Another time. At the time of independence, sir, one of the things that I will not polymise was already discussing that an amendment of this kind would support. These are places that still communicate through Croatia with Kočev if you want and with the capital, Kočevje administrative unit and with the capital Ljubljana. It's about 100 million, but it's really hypocrisy, you increase the money for state road infrastructure for nice money, you take into account highways, on this item there was already money in development programmes for 2006, and you took it here from this program that would transfer quality in this part. After all, you have dropped and you have 0 in the 2010 development programmes and you have completed after 2010. Look at these papers, I'm asking you nicely, and I don't expect support, because that would be contrary to what you've been doing right now and how this whole document is all through it. I'm saying this because I would, however, force someone to think that these things can be done differently and that something is done by content. The amendment is addressed to the right item, takes from the right item and gives [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u311	Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u312	to the right position. but it will not solve this problem because it will go below 2010. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr Weber also explained the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u314	Thank you for your word. In the Social Democrats Group, we support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy. We support it for a very simple reason, because it is the Dragarje-Posilnica road, which has been under construction for 14 years. This is probably one of the investments that takes place in Slovenia as far as possible. Dynamics are not only important to build up the road and to complete this initial investment, but mainly because the number of inhabitants in this valley is lower from day to day from year to year. I think that, unless appropriate and faster measures are taken to build investments for this area, it will also, of course, be that the municipality of Osilnica and the area of Kolpa will be drastically emptied. I think defeat is for every policy, but it doesn't matter whether it's left or right, I don't know what it's like to empty an area. This area near Kolpa is in fact threatened with emptiness. In such a way that it is more than necessary to invest substantial resources to preserve life, because if we want to restore life in this valley at any time, the inputs will be significantly greater, the procedures are significantly more difficult and I think that it is unfair to the valley of Kolpa, which, lastly, has also become a border area by making Slovenia more independent so that it does not become more active in all development programmes. The development of infrastructure is certainly one of the easiest to decide on. I don't need to have any, I don't know, economist, I don't have to have, I don't know who would bring some kind of program, the decision is exclusively ours, the political decision and this amendment is one of those who can experience political support, I'll say, I hope to even announce a unanimous vote on this amendment. All the other decisions are really decisions that point to whether or not we are aware of this problem in this area, or, of course, we do not want to deal with problems where they are, but we prefer to solve problems where they are smaller, but let's say I don't know some money so that you can talk to a large crowd about how much money you have invested. There won't be any opportunities in this area. It is not a large crowd, but it is an extremely great race for each individual, for those 300 people who still live in the area and certainly Kočevska is one of those areas that deserves the greater attention of the Slovenian state, not least because it has contributed greatly to the fact that we are living today as a single country and that we can make our own decisions in the Slovenian Parliament. Thank you. I'll support the amendment, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u315	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u316	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support this amendment in New Slovenia. I think we have already told you several times today that you cannot build state roads from the rural development programme 2004 to 2006, because this was agreed three years ago in Brussels. What you're talking about, I'm just going to make arrangements for the next period. You don't understand, and you just don't know how many years you've been building them, you can't take money from this item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u317	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u318	I will vote for this amendment, especially because I saw on my own eyes, I rode the entire road along Kolpa and saw what this road looks like, and saw that a number of times it has to cross the border so that you can cross all the Slovenian places on the left bank of Kolpa. And another thing, I've also seen how it's scattered and how little it is invested, and so I think it's about time, and especially because we're going to come to the Schengen area on January 1, 2007, and how these people are going to drive from one place to another, if they have to cross the Schengen border, you can imagine what that's going to look like. As a result, I think it is absolutely necessary, regardless of what some think is possible to draw from and where it is not possible to draw from, I could only say that for some things, funds have been drawn from the most impossible sources, and that is why no one asks the Court of Auditors when it checks and sees how things are, how the funds have been pumped.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u319	Thank you. Anyone else? You've already explained, Mr. Weber. But in your own name, I'm sorry. Yes, please, on your own behalf. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u320	Well, I want to explain my voice, of course, in my own name. So with all due respect for rural development and this budget item, which is said to be touching, but the fact is that in 2005 10 billion dollars will not come from Europe because someone has not done anything in this country. On the other hand, we will also adopt at this meeting a law on the implementation of the budget, which speaks of the possibility of reallocations decided by the government. And if this amendment is adopted, the government can still at any time redistribute these 100 million from any other item where there will be no realisation. The realisation of all budget lines will certainly not be 100%, but there will certainly be derogations in this budget in such a way that these 100 million can be provided at any time, including for rural development, when someone at the Ministry of Agriculture does what is necessary for these 10 billion to come to Slovenia. If this is the case in 2006, it will be so much better if it is not in 2007 and so on. But I would like to say that there is a mechanism for the government to decide and redistribute funds at any time and to provide this money at that time in the field of agriculture, if necessary. I would also like to express my support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u321	Thank you. Mr. Pavlich. Mr. Lakhovnik. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u322	I want to explain why I'm going to support this amendment. Places such as Osilnica are in some way being cut off from the rest of Slovenia. I know that some members of the coalition may think that in some ways rural development and an additional tourist offer can also be adrenaline sport driving on those roads. You may think so, but to the inhabitants of these places, it seems neither pleasant nor amusing. They want to live in those areas, but the development of infrastructure is, of course, the best instrument for ensuring coherent regional development. Therefore, honourable Members and Members of the Coalition, if you think or I will say so, all those who think seriously today with rural development, with consistent regional development, will be supported by this amendment, especially because it is also substantively logical in this sense, giving where funds for these purposes are in one way or another and rural development also means the development of rural infrastructure and giving where it is most useful for these places. This is actually road infrastructure in this area. I will support this amendment myself, and in some ways this amendment is also a lacmus paper, or a coalition, or which Members and Members of the coalition take seriously the coherent regional development, which they mean seriously with rural development and who holds here 'fico in the pocket'. I believe that coherent regional development is important, rural development is also important, and that is why I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u323	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle. In your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u324	Of course in my own name, because I already spoke on behalf of the Group of Members. This amendment is so adjusted that a more correct amendment has not been written in the National Assembly for a long time. But there's only one problem. And that is that this plan, or as an integral part of the development programme plan, was already envisaged, and then you, as a ruling coalition, ruled out of it for reasons unknown to us, and the lady even said, "We will talk about this." When? After 2010, 2008? You can talk after 2010, but by 2010 you will not be able to reduce differences in regional development and therefore demand Slovenia on two, write laws, prepare in-house programming documents if you are unable to support such an amendment, does not help. That is why we say, the classic amendment, which confirms whether it is a national assembly, whether we are Members and Members of Parliament for more coherent regional development, and let us also express it with political will. Then the bureaucrats and technocrats in the ministries and with the European Union will reconcile what is necessary. When this is confirmed in the National Assembly, it is not technocratized in the European Union, which will reject it, it is not. However, I believe that due to the lack of role of the National Assembly, some bureaucrats in the Slovenian government might feel differently, and this could even convince you that this should be thrown out. Therefore, I propose, support the amendment, with a supported amendment, we will provide these people with opportunities for further development and their normal integration into Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u325	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good-bye to all of you again! We used to say: Without water, there is no life, and without road, there is certainly no development. In my 20-year field service, I have traveled many places and many villages, but the most effective measure that brings you out of your loneliness, out of your mind, is good communication and a good road. What helps us develop all agriculture, a whole bunch of theories, but if farmers cannot offer their crops to those who are intended for them or if the consumer does not reach the manufacturer. That is why I will gladly support this amendment and also count on a sober reflection and support from other Members, because it is a matter that has nothing to do with politics, but with normal life and common sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u327	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, on behalf of the House? No, no, no. In my own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Now I see that many are talking about this amendment about content that they actually don't know. It seems to them as if they are using a common term. There are very few people here who know what the actual situation is there and what is actually happening on this project. This year it is the first time that this programme has begun to be seriously implemented, even though you have had many years in the Green Border Programme. And it is also this year for the first time that he started seriously implementing the green border programme. If someone doesn't believe that they should take a local paper, colleague Weber, I know we're getting it, or whatever the mayor's thanks or the mayor's message to his countrymen. One of these is the mayor of Loške Potok, the mayor of LDS, who wrote publicly that this year he first joined the Green Border Programme by even surpriseing them and by having to do a rebalancing of local programmes. The fact is that it is and that the breakthrough of this road will be made, it is introduced into development programmes, and this programme will follow this dynamic. In the event that the needs are shown to be greater, the ministry is the one that can also be redistributed by 100 million or perhaps slightly more within the resources available. And all that you do in these projects and also, say, in the project of that development axis in Koroška, the third development axis, is pure demagogy. When you had the opportunity, you did nothing, on the third, but not quite about the second development axis and about the first and so on. And in fact, your content has begun to slip away and only deals with populist issues related to demographics and similar things. Back then, the possibility was much bigger, much easier. Now that those funds are actually earmarked, I think they are also sufficient to implement this programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u329	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u330	Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it myself for one simple reason. Because I find it extremely unserious that with such a small amount of money, that is, 100 million, they solve the problem of the Backwaters. I think that if we want to take the problem seriously, more money is needed, several times more, and this is just some demagogic approach. At the same time, 100 million is a sizeable class of municipal budget and this is more a matter of the mayor than the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u331	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova, on her own? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u332	I wasn't saying that the Raptor doesn't need the road, but that you're taking the wrong line. And some of you who have taught me how to develop rural areas, but you've been taking agriculture and rural development all day long, in addition to the General Staff. Sorry, you can't take agriculture and talk about rural development at the same time. I will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u333	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u334	Thank you for your word. I would, of course, correct the mayor from that end, because I have a mushroom field there, but I don't know very much, and they were already doing something last year, so that I could correct it. It's not just this year, it's already in 2004. Large or small, this is, of course, now a matter of own judgment for each individual.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u335	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u336	President, thank you for your word. I think we are witnessing that there is not enough worry about the border or the people living next to it. So I am a witness every day when the Croatian police drive nicely through Prekmurje to their place. But what's worse is that, dear colleagues and colleagues, what's going on in this case. I think it's a great deal of cynicism to point out this thing about the Butcher, who has become the romance of high-level government visits and showing politicians in this place if he says it's cynicism. They don't know enough about the concerns of the people who live in this place, and it's really not enough for these neighborhoods to have, as far as I know, some kind of August, which we call a road where the bus can't drive and they're so cut off from their mother. Do you think respected colleagues and colleagues, those who ensure that all citizens in this Republic should live well and that especially those in exposed places should have a little more benefit than those who can go to work with a train, a bus, a car, a bicycle, or whatever you want to get more attention? If this place and the problems in Croatia, or in Italy, or in Austria, or in any other country, would be better cared for and better settled, I will therefore vote in favour of such an amendment and any such amendments, which will try to make it easier for those people who are at the border of our country and who care about them for connection to the matrix. And at a minimum, at a billion or a billion, 700 billion is the 100 million that we are now arguing about.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u337	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u338	Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr President. Of course, I will support this amendment, just as I supported everything in this package. The reason is that I think this is an important matter, however, is the regulation of all state roads. Since many of you have used anecdotes and experiences, let me tell you. This year, several of us colleagues from different parties traveled the borders of Slovenia and almost everywhere we could drive, and here we jumped, jumped, and even wandered on those roads, and all cursed, irrespective of the stationery, and cursed more or less successfully, just according to our own ability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u339	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u340	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Maybe there are a lot of people here today who might be less familiar with these places. I visited them myself years ago, and I must say that the road I was driving was already under way. And when I met these people, they showed a great degree of awareness that they lived in Slovenia, and they had a very strong desire to connect these places with our places inside. And, of course, the concern of Slovenia should be particularly focused on these peripheral places, border areas. And when we look at the examples of our neighbors, we can see their behavior completely different. That's why I'm going to support this amendment to support the living people I think are in the congregation of less than 500. And the expression of this vote today will also be how we can see the life of those who are very far from the heart, far from the eyes. Of course, this does not mean that we have no hearing for them here. I am in favour of supporting their lives in these places to support their wishes in connection with the centre of this Slovenia; I will gladly support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u341	Thank you. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 25 votes against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to budget user 2511, Ministry of Environment and Space. In the sub-programme Promoting efficient use and renewable energy sources, we have 3 amendments. Anybody want a word? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u342	The effective use of energy is certainly one of the priorities of the developed world, in particular that should apply to Slovenia, and we also have the opportunity to do so, but we note that the resources in the budget are either kept at the same level or even reduced in some of the measures, which is why, in our opinion, the amendment we are proposing is necessary if we want to participate in those programmes, including the international programmes for which we have actually committed ourselves to cooperate with them. Acquisition and distribution of energy raw materials and efficient use of renewable energy sources is a challenge that is, in fact, written in all our strategic documents with large beginnings, with large letters. Last but not least, we have adopted in Parliament a virtually unanimous resolution on environmental protection, where it is very clear that we will introduce environmental technologies in Slovenia. These are the technologies that enable the economy to compete, allowing entry into foreign markets, but of course there is also a need to allocate certain funds in the home country, and without subsidies in this area it will not be easy to do so. We therefore propose that this amendment be supported and allowed to truly Slovenia to develop as one modern, modern, efficient energy state, I would say, a suitable country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u343	Thank you. Anyone else? We are moving on to the vote on the first amendment proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Mr. Gantar, an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u344	President, I will explain the position of the LDS Group on all three amendments relating to the same point so that it does not come forward. Of course, LDS then made two amendments, as you can see, along with this first one, we suggest you support them. In fact, the budget has reduced resources for the efficient use of energy mainly in the field of renewables. Renewable resources are very important if we pursue specific environmental and other objectives, but they have a high investment price. Everywhere around the world, of course, they support this through certain projects and programmes, which are now reduced in Slovenia. That is why, of course, we propose to restore this and, of course, to ensure faster use of renewable resources, especially biomass in Slovenia. In particular, we want to achieve the objectives that we have achieved with the Kyoto Protocol. So once again, I call on you in some way to support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u345	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u346	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to say, on behalf of the Group of Members, that we will support all those amendments relating to increasing resources to improve the efficient use of energy and also to use renewable energy sources. This is because last year the National Assembly adopted a resolution on the national energy programme, in which the state of Slovenia committed itself to devote every year to the efficient use of energy and to increasing renewable energy resources of 14 billion tolars for the period 2004-2010. As early as 2004, resources under the CO2 tax for air pollution caused by greenhouse gases were income last year - from the 2004 final budget account - 14 billion and 100 million tolars. And last year, 988 million tolars were spent on energy efficiency. It is said that one fourteen planned or commitment, which our country has also adopted on the basis of the ratification of the Kyoto Agreement in this area. Only one fourteen. This year these funds were just as little planned, and there was no increase in the 2005 budget balance, while the inflows are about the same as last year. For 2006, our government plans only 10 billion tolls of revenue from this title, but there is no reason to expect a reduction in air pollution emissions from greenhouse gases. While planning in 2006 for this purpose, say and write, one billion tolars. And next year it's the same. I believe that at least what it is is is our country's moral obligation to adhere not only to what it has ratified but, above all, to what it has accepted as a legally binding document. The resolution is binding, and as a result, it is common ignorance - and I repeat here - of every government and of every national assembly, no matter who has the majority to fulfil their commitments. I do not believe that only the then coalition supported the resolution. And that is why, of course, we will vote in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u347	Thank you, Mrs. Pechanova. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 54 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 38. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on Amendment No 2 proposed by the LDS Group of Members. Mrs. Pecanova, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u348	In my own name, of course. I must say that this increase, as well as the increase proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, is ridiculously too small in view of the commitment that this National Assembly has made - no matter what composition, I repeat - and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has proposed a resolution on the national energy programme, has adopted. The increase still does not guarantee the 1/14 commitment we have made by means of a resolution on the national energy programme, so I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u349	Thank you. Mr. Germich. On behalf of the MP? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u350	Yours. Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will support this amendment myself. So it is about subsidising energy efficiency measures in Slovenia and much of this has been discussed on the Committee's resolution on the research and development programme, where we said the objectives were set at the limits of feasibility. We have already heard today that we are talking here about a national energy programme that we are not actually implementing in concrete numbers of these drafts of the budget. Of course, both resolutions have a common denominator in that we will train the Slovenian industry to compete also in this area to create such low energy products, as trends in the world, especially in the most developed parts of the world, have been directed towards reducing the share of energy as a percentage of the social product. And the resources that we have here for subsidies for the efficient use of energy are, I agree, extremely small. But with small steps we can contribute to what has not been done within the framework of the government proposal. I therefore propose that we fully support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u351	Thank you. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 35. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We move to a vote on the third amendment - the LDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 37. [[13 votes in favour (against 37).]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. In the sub-programme Regulatory framework, general administration and policy-making we have one amendment, namely the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u352	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, members of the government! In particular, I would like to point out that the Council for the Protection of the Environment is an institution that brings together at Parliament level such a professional, political, public, non-governmental organisations and is a kind of merifactic and professional advocate of the state of the environment in Slovenia. His views, books and reports are publicized, the publication of certain publications and plays an important role in Slovenia and the world, in Europe, where such councils are often present in Parliament. I think the President of the Council is still the President of the Council for Environmental Protection in Europe. So, it even has this function. His funds are shrinking. This will reduce his professional, publicist and other activities, and this is not good. We're proposing relatively small funds, I think that's $5 million. I am sure that this small redeployment will not mean much for the one to be taken from, but it will mean crucially important, an opportunity for the environmental protection world to continue its work as it has done so far. That is why, of course, I call and ask that this amendment be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u353	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 36. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have five amendments in the Environment Improvement Sub-programme. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the first amendment proposed by the LDS Group. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 37. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 36. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the third amendment proposed by the LDS Group. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 37. [[For the vote 8]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I ask the Members present to press the button, at least the quorum, because there are certainly more than 46 of them here in the Chamber. We are moving on to the vote on the fourth amendment proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. 42 Members and Members are present. I find that the vote has not been successful. We will re-vote once again the fourth amendment proposed by the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. 43 Members and Members are present. The vote was not successful for the second time. I'm adjourning the session, and we'll resume at 5.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u354	Dear Members, we continue this meeting and ask that you take your seats. For the third time, we are voting on the fourth amendment of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 40. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the fifth amendment proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 40. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. In the sub-programme Planning, water protection and water management we have one amendment proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. In the sub-programme Conservation of Biodiversity and Protection of Natural Values, we have two amendments. Anybody want a word? Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members and members of the government, representatives of the government. This is an amendment that actually increases the amounts for individual parks, especially regional parks and Triglav National Park in Slovenia, which are listed, I will not mention them. It is important to say that we are proposing to add a certain amount to these parks listed here and that this amount is, of course, taken from the programmes in the area covered by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which, of course, means that we want the resources that the Ministry of Agriculture has, which is always boasting, to become more and more so as to put these funds into rural areas and these areas through the institutions of these parks, which will of course mean a substantial better and more meaningful use of these funds. That is why, of course, I call upon all of you to accept and support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u356	Thank you. Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the first amendment of the LDS Group. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 38. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment, also by the LDS Group. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. In the sub-programme Space Planning, we have one amendment proposed by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 38. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. In the sub-programme Promoting Housing, we have an amendment proposed by the Social Democrats Group. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to budget user 2523 - Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. In the sub-programme Improving the state of the environment, we have one amendment proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? Mr. Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, this year, if we recall, this National Assembly has rejected the law on the rehabilitation of dusty parts in the Upper Mežiški valley, with the promise of the Minister to ensure this in the national environmental protection programme and in the state budget. That promise was dilute. It has been dissolved both in the national environmental protection programme and in the budget and has extended to a period that is larger than expected and could be reduced. This amendment corrects this minister's promise and shortens this period, increases funds on these items in the budget and allows this project to start and end sooner than the current budget has planned. We therefore propose that you accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u358	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u359	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, everyone in this room. The amendment of the Liberal Democracy is certainly welcome because it is ecologically oriented and provides ecological rehabilitation to the Mežíska Valley. But even earlier, it is important to welcome the willingness of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, has put the ecological problems of the Upper Mežiški Valley in the state budget, which is of course extremely important for us who live in the Mežiški valley. So it was a mistake to write the Slovenian press, when we talked about the rehabilitation of the Meží valley with dust particles, when they wrote that the Mežíska valley would have to wait for the rehabilitation. It would have been a better title. Why did the valley of Mnemonic have to wait so long to be rehabilitated? And now we are finally about to begin the rehabilitation of this degraded area. I went to see for myself days 10 years ago what was going on in these years in the state budgets, and I did not discover a tolar of budgetary resources that would have been intended for any environmental rehabilitation in the Mežiška Valley. As early as 1995, it was known that there were heavy metals in the soil, such as lead, cadmium, and zinc, in the fingers of the Mežíska Valley. Dr. France Lobnik, a world authority in the field of pedology, then advised the country to replace the land in these most critical places. This did not happen, even though we built highways during these years, and we pushed a number of fertile lands to the brink. No truck came to the valley of Mežíží and no tolar of state money was intended for this purpose! We can move on. In 1998 they were told that all these years they were exposed to radiant radiation in the trenches of the merciless mine. In one of the public presentations of the results of the research, Dr. Marjan Bilban said that he had not yet experienced such chromosomal aberrations as he had discovered in the book. The buttons were dying on Koroška's youth. In the state budget, there was not even a tolar in these 10 years to speak in terms of some kind of rent for these miners. Moreover, the state-owned company Rudnik Mežica has not paid less wages in 12 years. This was raised by about 130 million tolars. This is probably what the buttons will get paid in the coming year when the last property of the merciless mine will be sold. Because of lead dust and sulphur dioxide, several ten farmers in the upper Mežiški valley have completely destroyed the forest. And we know the forest is the bank of these farmers. There's almost no cut in the valley of death. And for many years, farmers have been sued by the state company Rudnik Mežica for this damage and have received only a small amount of compensation. In the budgets for the past years, I did not find an item that would give these farmers a modest income. Dr. Prpičeva, a doctor from Zagreb, discovered the harmful effects of lead, cadmium and zinc on human health in the upper Mežiški valley some 20 years ago. In the budgets for previous years, I did not find a tolar intended for prevention or additional treatment for any additional doctor in Montenegro or Měžica. Not even a tolar! It is true, however, that in the 2006 budget, the Ministry of Health has earmarked more than 260 million tolls in the preventive health programme of the Sub-Environmental Impact on Human Health. Of these 260 million tolars, part will also be intended for systematic monitoring of the situation of the lead population in the Mežíska Valley. In fact, we must be aware that even if we pull the asphalt to the Mayan Lipe, even if we surround the entire mountain of Pece contaminated with lead, it will remain in the Mežiška Valley. Here is the metallurgical processing of old battery batteries driven into our valley from the eastern countries of Europe and, of course, Slovenia. Some 25,000 tons per year process these old battery batteries and pollution in the Mežíska Valley is not just dust particles. In short, I support the concern and welcome the efforts of the Liberal Democracy that now that the change of power has finally taken place, the ecological rehabilitation of the Upper Mežica Valley could also begin. In previous years, the previous authorities have failed to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u360	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u361	I won't be much time because we have some time limits. But I would like to say that, of course, it is not true that nothing has been done in the past ten, fifteen years. This, of course, is well known by fellow Member and former journalist Miro Petek. In particular, it must be said that the production was closed, that the helmets had been repaired, that a number of measures had been taken, including the environmental rehabilitation of the battery factory. If current emissions from accumulators are suspected not to meet the standards, the inspection will immediately look at what they are and will take action. Simply, the resources were, and this is what fellow Member Petek looked at poorly, both at the Ministry of Environment and Space and, of course, at the Ministry of Economy, which was the main operator of this activity. And many visits and work there are also shown in the improvement of the environment. 300 years and more of mining and mining of lead in the upper Mežiški valley cannot be completely eliminated and repaired in 10 years. It's going to be a long time, especially in [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , it will take a long time to be very careful, it will be necessary to monitor health and other effects for a long time. [[...]] However, the importance of dust particles was discovered only recently, two, three years ago and, of course, this action was now necessary. And we need to get her out of here as soon as possible. Of course, my colleague knows that, but it's only right that you know that. It is good that the government has taken this initiative, but I think that this amendment could make it faster and more effective for the people and people of the Upper Mežiški Valley.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u362	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the LDS amendment. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 37. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. In the sub-programme Planning, water protection and water management, we have one amendment proposed by the LDS Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. In the Sub-programme Special Programmes in the event of accidents, we have one amendment proposed by the LDS Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 41. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2611 of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We have two amendments in the Sub-programme Receipts and the Rights of the Unemployed. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the first amendment proposed by the LDS Group. Mr. Germich. Vote explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u363	Thank you so much for saying that. Therefore, the purpose of our amendment, which concerns the content of transfers of the unemployed, is, in our view, one of the very important amendments mainly from the point of view and concern when we monitor data on the rise in unemployment, which is increasing again. If I can only illustrate the policy in this area, we can see that a number of resources have been taken away from the balance by the Ministry, but that the Ministry is already assessing that in valorisation these resources will be essential to cover all the obligations for those who lose their jobs. I would point out here that we are once again faced with a fact, at least from the area from which I come, that there are quite a few companies that are threatened by an increase in unemployment and, of course, numbers go into a few hundred. Therefore, we propose that, given that an increase in 2005 is already expected in the context of realisation, additional funding for this item would be added, as the number of unemployed is expected to increase. And of course, by rejecting the amendments already today, which were intended primarily for technology, i.e. the technological development of business restructuring, this amendment is all the more important. Of course, that's why I'm gonna break this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u364	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 20 votes in favour, 40 votes in favour. (The vote was 20.)(against 40.) I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the second amendment proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Treachery, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u365	Majda Potrat! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. This amendment is from a group of amendments tabled by the Social Democrats from the Ministry's work programme with work, family and social affairs. Both assistance to the unemployed and active employment policies, as well as education programmes, are those that should be particularly supported in order to prevent unemployment, especially when we are talking about the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, which wants to increase the employment that it wants - and our government policy says so - to enable an individual to compete in the labour market. I am aware that new jobs with added value, as we can say, will be unattainable for some groups of people and it seems to me that special resources should be taken care of and allocated to those with special sensitivity. It was heard that the number of unemployed would not increase. Data speak differently, unemployment is rising, and above all, it is worrying that it is growing in those groups of people who are more difficult to employ. Unemployment is too high in the group of first job seekers, unemployment is too high among long-term unemployed and is particularly high in the group of women. Look, ever since the data is kept separately by sex, it's above average. All these are the reasons why the Social Democrats, not only on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, have been making amendments, that we have submitted them and that we have also advocated them on the Committee on Finance, but that we are investing them and defending them now. Thank you. But let's not always be an excuse where we've covered it, because we've already heard the lesson that a source of funding can be found, if there's a will, even another way to find it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u366	Thank you, ma'am. Majda Potter. Mr. Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u367	Thank you very much. The amendment could even be supported as it increases funds for those who need it. I don't think it's our desire to increase unemployment, because increasing unemployment means increasing unemployment. The Ministry estimates that in 2006 there will be 1.2% less than in 2005. The Ministry then estimates that cash assistance will be at the 2005 level in 2006. On the other hand, the Ministry plans to increase other transfers to the unemployed. I believe that none of the beneficiaries, it is said, will be without this assistance from the real beneficiaries, and that is why I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u368	Thank you. Mr. Sok, on behalf of the House?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u369	Yeah. Thank you very much. So, on behalf of the House of Representatives, I would like to say that we will not support the amendment and that what has been said does not. Despite the fact that many bankruptcys of companies that have somehow been artificially maintained in the previous period and, in other words, with State aid, remained alive this year, I find from these data available to increase employment in 2005 not much, but it increased by 0.7%. So, there's no way that there's a claim that unemployment is increasing, that's not true, that's shrinking. And at this point, as far as the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is concerned, four European programmes are being implemented for unemployed persons. So there are many activities in this area and what we can hear from the opposition is simply not true. At the moment this amendment does not need to be accepted in the way you propose, and therefore we will not support it in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u370	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u371	Thank you so much for saying that. So, if I didn't have the wrong number, I would have given you a specific number. So the previous government has allocated 25.3 billion funds on this item. With the balance of funds, the new government has reduced this item to 24.3 billion. Interestingly, this government assesses the implementation of the 2005 budget again to 25.8, which is 1.5 billion more than it estimated with the rebalancing. And even though we have, let's say, Merinka, Vesno, Ferroterm, we're talking about Prevention, which predicts a big redundancies, we're lowering in 2006 from 25.8 as this government estimates the realisation, to 24.3. Now you tell me where the fraud is, given that this government has assessed the necessary realisation, which is significantly greater than the number in the budget's proposal for a rebalancing. And the forecasts of individual companies suggest that there will be an additional need to provide funding on this segment. And, of course, our amendment is going in this direction or because this amendment has already been voted out, i.e. Amendment No 2, of the Social Democrats, which supports the fact that the funds in this item for 2006 will not be too small. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u372	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u373	Thank you very much. In the DeSUS Group, we certainly feel all the necessary responsibility for those who have either lost their jobs or those who are looking for them. However, the figures also say that, as far as it is possible for jobs to be lost, it is possible that the new ones will also be opened. And our strategy is not to invest excessively large resources directly in the direct consumption of those who do not work, i.e. for direct social assistance, but in those directions where new jobs are created. So it's about channelling the funds. And we will support those amendments that speak of greater employability, which speak of new jobs, and not just those that speak of direct social assistance, which many, we also find, abuse, because some of the cities or parts offered to them do not want to take over.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u374	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u375	Thank you so much for saying that. We will support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party. We will support it mainly because we are principled and because we still believe in the social state. However, I would like to point out that she has disturbed me before me, and I will appoint a Member, Mrs Potter's opinion, when she spoke of where the will is, there is power, and that if the source is not true, it is possible to find another source. You know, Mrs. Potrata, remember, it was 3 million Slovenian tolls to help victims of violence, sexual violence. And since the source, according to your assessment, was not correct, you did not support the amendment. So much for principle. In the Slovenian National Party, we will give support to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u376	Thank you. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. There are four amendments to the Employment Increase sub-programme. Anybody want to talk? I would ask that you discuss when it is time for the debate, not when it is time to explain your voice, because in the stage of explanations of vote, the Minister cannot be included, he cannot answer the question. I ask once again if anyone wants to discuss these four amendments. [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the first amendment proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 38. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the second amendment proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 38. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a vote on the third amendment, also proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u377	Thank you. This is an amendment which, according to previous statements, should receive full support, as it is an amendment that speaks of an active employment policy that speaks of creating new jobs and increasing the flexibility of businesses. No matter what the content of this amendment is, it is difficult for me to promise that the amendment will receive support, because we are really absorbing funds from the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, as we said. I always vote according to what is written and I have no problem with it. If anyone else has a problem with the source, I mentioned earlier that the funds could be found elsewhere. It's important that we listen to each other. But I know some things are hard to understand, but still. It's about people, it's about active employment policy, it's about creating new cities. It is true that we have seen in the past that aid to companies for new jobs has also been misused, but I think that positive examples need to be drawn from policy-making. For those where abuse occurs, however, find ways to recover what has been misused or misused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u378	Thank you. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 37. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the fourth amendment proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 36. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have three amendments in the sub-programme to create new jobs and to increase the flexibility of businesses. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u379	Thank you so much for saying that. So today, we have already crossed the area of the economy where a number of amendments have been proposed that have spoken in the light of the Lisbon Strategy and the Lisbon objectives, one of which is certainly creating the competitiveness of the economy and the other is creating jobs and, if possible, providing and creating quality jobs. We have made these amendments, which have mainly gone in the direction of innovation, new technologies and business restructuring, with these amendments we have done and, of course, we have not added any additional resources. Such transformation of enterprises, which is certainly necessary for the Slovenian industry and the economy, will also affect quality new jobs and, of course, preserve existing jobs. In the context of an active employment policy, one of the measures is about creating new jobs and increasing the flexibility of businesses. Here, of course, we can see that again on this item we see a decrease in resources and I do not understand the Minister who is landing, given what is happening to us in the labour market, so that he can propose such measures, but of course this becomes more clear when we accompany, say, the statements made by the Minister and so stated also, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs does not create jobs. Of course, this could generally be agreed at the beginning, but in the framework of an active employment policy, it is precisely one of the measures aimed at creating jobs and, of course, for this philosophy, it is clear to us that the items in these segments are falling. Unfortunately, we note that, of course, all measures in active policy are being reduced in general. The result is also that we do not yet have a director at the Directorate for the Labour Market and the Labour Market and, of course, we can only monitor here that the policy in this area is of course ineffective. Active employment policy shows the result and that after 10 months compared to last year, we notice that unemployment has increased. And if we can only talk about seasonal, but unfortunately we can find out from the information, from the media, that it is not just a seasonal reduction or employment, it is an increase in unemployment, but it is a trend that will be able to contribute in the future to an increase in the number of unemployment. We therefore propose that you support the amendment, which says that job creation and employment activities are becoming more difficult to increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u380	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u381	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, it should be stressed that we are recording an increase in employment in Slovenia this year. The one about unemployment, registered, of course, is other stories. During the previous term of office, a rule had been adopted, by means of which 15,000 unemployed persons had been placed on a special record, so-called hidden, and through this had been manipulated in relation to unemployment. For us, however, it is evident and very important to measure unemployment, which is indisputable, and this is in line with the AE Low criteria, i.e. international organisations for work and, accordingly, we also see a reduction in unemployment. But I think it's good that we focus on job creation, and when we lose, we make sure that the unemployed get jobs as soon as possible. Experiences with this financing of new jobs or conservation are very painful. The National Assembly in one of the previous mandates, I think in the first or the second, has provided 12 billion dollars for this. You know what happened. Nothing. No jobs have been saved. The most effective measure is in the field of economy and finance, so that investors will invest in jobs in the right way, and the country will help best when it makes the unemployed work, prepare them to do so and help to ensure that they have the necessary experience or knowledge. Regarding the Directorate, I must tell you that I have taken it for a short period of time, until I install a new and thus save taxpayers a million dollars each month. But I used to work in the labour market myself, and I am an expert on this. So there's no need to be afraid of that. However, the funds available are also sufficient, in our opinion, with the help of the European funds that we are now making more intensive use of.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u382	Thank you, Minister. We're crossing Mr. Rezman, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u383	Thank you very much. I'll support some of these amendments. But there are also amendments that speak, say, of the protection work centre of the Poles, and only for that reason would I like to say something about political technology in the vote. I regret that some use debates and explanations of voices merely to appear to be visible. For I am now talking about the fact that I am deeply concerned that those who have performed will not have support for their amendments of their own kind. I would like to point out that it is calculated that it is documented that the LDS were not even 1/3 when their amendments were in turn. And now there's less than half of them. And I beg you, yes, I miss them, because their voices are necessary for what is being declared. It's not enough just to perform and predict what we're going to do, then run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u384	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the first amendment tabled by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. Excuse me, explanation for the voice. Here you go, Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u385	Thank you very much. In my own name. Dear Members. I will support all amendments that increase funds for active employment policy. The reason for this is as follows. If we look at the data at the end of October, compared to the same period last year, unemployment increased by 1.8%, that is 2000 additional unemployed. We can see that unemployment is again approaching the number 95,000 and is likely to surpass it by the end of the year. We can see that it happened for the first time after 10 years since 1995 that, within the same year, unemployment increased from January to October of the month, for the first time after 10 years. We see that the share of unemployed women among the older population is increasing most. The share of the unemployed among the more difficult working population is increasing. Taking this into account, we can be very surprised that funds for active employment policies are falling. The fact is that we can only correct this by making and supporting amendments that increase the resources for active employment policy and thus try to increase the share of the employed population and reduce unemployment. Economists know that unemployment is particularly problematic from this point of view, because it is an eternally lost GDP, because it is also a social and other cost associated with it. That is why, of course, I will support this amendment, and in this way, of course, I will also try to help a minister who is obviously losing his practice in his own department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u386	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u387	I will explain my voice and also support all the amendments. I think they're heading in the right direction. I think they are correcting the wrong government policy, which is also reflected in the budget. Of course, I want the amendments to be accepted and supported by Mr Rezman, and I want him to first, if he listens to gain first for his amendments and for those supported by those who are in the coalition, not those who are in the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u388	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u389	Thank you very much. I will not support the amendments. One reason is that unemployment does not increase. The Minister made that clear a little earlier. Another, even more important reason why I will not support the amendments is that I am very pleased that the Ministry of Labour in this field is working on an active employment policy. In the past, however, there have been the most irregularities and machinations. The money was being distributed and the proceeds were not at all. It is said that a lot of money has been distributed, and the final effect of the divided money can be asked where it went today, who has made it rich, or through which channels has it spilled. That is why I will not support these amendments because I believe that there is enough money on these items to realize the plan that the Ministry has set itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u390	Thank you. Mr. Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u391	Thank you. I would like those who have taken the most for these amendments to take over earlier, because it's only a long process to get people on the road, it's usually not in ten days or in fourteen days, things are going on longer. This example was last seen in Sevnika Jutrańka, because they have issued state aids unknown to where, in fact, we know where and on the other hand they are unemployed. It must be done sooner, gentlemen, now that you are so committed to these amendments, it is necessary to make an effort not to do so at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u392	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u393	Those who feel that we do not all have to worry about all the amendments have probably missed a class in political cultivation. There is not one amendment that none of us should think about, nor is there any such amendment, nor should we think of those who are not. And let me remind the opposition that no amendment can be adopted unless some of the positions support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u394	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u395	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment, as my colleague Mikolić from our parliamentary group has already said, but something is really very wrong in these debates. Yesterday, in the veto on the Income Act, we listened here by the opposition to how we should maximize student work, not tax it, help as many students to work, today we are listening to another story about how the number of unemployed is increasing, rather than being two contradictory issues, completely contradictory. And indeed, if you are not here to vote for such and similar amendments, it is pointless to expect. And also the amendments you tabled, once you demand more for technological development, secondly less, once you demand more for the southern border, secondly less, once more for damage by nature, secondly less, complete confusion, these are actually just amendments written for quantity, you obviously didn't think about the quality of this part. In this way, it is difficult to take budgetary debates seriously. I will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u396	Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u397	The President, you're very tolerant today, but what's been going on now has gone beyond all limits. Mr Sok, honourable Member, did not discuss this amendment or this item on the agenda, but he mixed two meetings of the National Assembly or two points of the National Assembly, and he probably did not listen in detail to the reasons why it was necessary for students to be given a job. By proposing, President, if, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you can, of course, warn Mr Sok and ensure that everyone tries to talk about the contents of this amendment, then I will apply myself for an explanation of vote in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u398	And how will you vote, Mr. Squeakl?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u399	It was procedurally the president, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u400	This was not a procedural proposal, but during the vote or procedural proposal we know what the content may be.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u401	My procedural proposal was, Mr President, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u402	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u403	My procedural proposal was to warn Mr. Sok that he was not talking about the matter and that in this way he was [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u404	Mr. Squeakl, this option is not in the rules of procedure. Please finish. Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u405	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this amendment. At the same time, I would say that anyone who wants to be raised must be brought up and that if the opposition went out, Parliament could be dissolved because you are not enough to guarantee the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u406	Thank you. Mr. Squeakl, you've already had an explanation for your vote, please. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u407	Thank you. I will, of course, support the amendment. If I were to hold the thesis that student work is the main culprit for unemployment, then let me remind you, Your Honor, that we have all received Slovenia in our 2005 numbers. If I were to add up to undergraduate students in higher education, vocational and higher education programmes and universities, university programmes, 85 000 962 were unemployed in 2004, 90 000 728 in the same year, so there would still be a few thousand unemployed to be taken care of. However, I think that some of the explanations went in a direction that a person could almost understand as if the unemployed were themselves guilty of being unemployed because they were not able to get a job on time in companies that were promising. Such a view of things is, of course, possible, but the question is whether it is acceptable. Not for me as a Social Democrat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u408	Mr. Squeakl, I'll give you my word, whatever you want, or a procedural proposal or an explanation of vote, just please stick to what you decide. Please. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u409	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I will now explain my vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I have talked earlier, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, about the application of Rule 69, which I am allowed to do. My vote is on this amendment, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the 2006 and 2007 budget, does not provide adequate resources for the purposes for which it will be necessary to provide adequate resources in 2006 and 2007. This is also demonstrated by the information we have provided to Members of Parliament and Members in explanation of this amendment, and you probably have not read it. We have then warned the Minister, even when we have been rebalancing funds for these purposes and an interesting budget implementation will require more resources than the Minister has planned and equally applies to the budget, for the proposal of the 2006 supplementary draft budget. It is estimated that the funds earmarked for approximately 10 percentage points below 2005 will not be sufficient. They will not be sufficient simply because in the last few months the number of unemployed is increasing rapidly because a number of companies are predicting forgiveness and, of course, we already have such forgivenesss. That is why we have proposed amendments that people who are losing their jobs should be captured and tried with various active employment policy programmes to return to work. This is the task of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and if the Minister alone within the government and the party and the coalition has not chosen enough resources, let us help him in the National Assembly by supporting our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u410	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u411	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment and anyone else in this direction. I must say, I'm a little disappointed when there's a barant here with numbers and percentages. Every person who loses his job is unemployed or unemployed, of course, has his own trauma and is in trouble. That's why every tolar involved is a good investment, and that's why I don't understand these discussions, or 95,000 or 90 thousand unemployed, it's a disaster that, of course, 90,000 are unemployed. And I don't understand these discussions going this way. And a little bit to correct, the one with those barant numbers. The most unemployed were on the road in 1992 with 175 thousand. And since that year 1992, we've been reducing unemployment, and we've reached 95,000. And for a long time, we won't be able to get to 18,000 unemployed as many as there were in 1990. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u412	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment proposed by the LDS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 40. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the third amendment proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 38. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have four amendments in the sub-programme for public and development social protection. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u413	Thank you so much for saying that. The Slovenian national party has tabled an amendment to the social protection sub-programme. In particular, it is aid of 3 million Slovenian tolars. Assistance in the framework of experimental and development social protection programmes and co-financing of non-governmental sector programmes. In particular, it is about helping the Association against Sexual Abuse in the Republic of Slovenia, which is in fact the only such active association active in the field of psychosocial assistance and other programmes to help victims of sexual violence, especially children. To mention, I said that the anti-sexual abuse association is the only such specialised association in Slovenia. The Association also offers education for professional staff, including for state institutions such as social work centres. Over the last year, Slovenia, including in the world and the EU, has seen an increase in the number of people seeking psychosocial assistance. In view of the unfavourable practice in this area, as in fact abused persons are not usually adequately assisted by an official institution, such as social work centres, or are not adequately assisted. As a result, in fact, more and more abused persons are turning to that association for help. Let me point out another important fact. That victims of sexual abuse and long-term childhood suffering are specific victims, particularly those affected by problems such as social inclusion, empowerment and capacity-building for everyday life, in which society has not yet recognised that the absence of aid and the relevant programmes for these victims constitutes in fact a long-term exceptional damage to society for an active and healthy member of society. Unfortunately, there are no official analyses in Slovenia in this area, so allow me to use Swedish research in this case, which confirms that in fact 57% of survivors have problems at work, 56% of victims have economic problems, 52% have problems at hospital and 36% have housing problems. In fact, these social consequences also point to the economic effects of these actions on society. Not to mention all the other problems that are related and are the result of the victims of sexual violence against children and other members of our society. I believe that you will all be able to work together with such common sense, wisdom that you will support this amendment. Once again, it is only 3 million Slovenian Tolars to help the association, which is the only such specific, specialised association in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. And let me finally use the words he recently said and even wrote down by the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. For the traveller of one book, I will say important book, which is also an important part in the common fight against sexual violence in the Republic of Slovenia. He said it was a book for brave and responsible people. I hope that you will all be so brave and responsible today that you will support the amendment that allows this association to survive. It is only a matter of covering the basic means of operating, such as solving the housing problem, the telephone, and, finally, computer services. Please support this amendment because it is good for the entire Slovenian society.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u414	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u415	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! After a long time, I experienced one explanation and an amendment that has a serious purpose in helping. And he's also properly justified and also in a suitable place he's taking money to make it happen. For this reason, I will gladly support this amendment, after this beach of amendments to the Liberal Democracy and Social Democracy, which are just trying, looking for a way to abolish the Slovenian state, how to end border protection, how to disarm the Slovenian army. At the same time, they are full of social demagogies and populism. See, for this reason, I think that our joint task for the future budget will be to find, within the Ministry of Health, a way to disarm these two parliamentary groups' evil purposes, to disarm their populism and demagogy and to fight the Slovenian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u416	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u417	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment, because I am also involved in this organisation, but I know very well how it works, and that it will most likely take over the management of our home for women who are victims of violence. And because I believe that none of the amendments that we have voted on so far and that none of the amendments that relate to improving the situation of people in Slovenia, but mainly to giving them hope for a better life, are due to some people who are literally demagogies in this National Assembly, not to mention that they are painting some parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, as if they were enemies of the State and of the people. However, it is necessary to know that this people have chosen almost half of the national assembly, which counts as very criminal members, so very criminal Members and Members. I think that some should, in particular, restrict their language a little bit and adapt their expression to a way that is worthy of a Member. Earlier there was a talk about political culture and I fully agreed with it. There is certainly no political culture among some people in this national assembly, and some individuals should go to a school of political culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u418	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u419	Thank you very much. I, too, believe that this amendment is positive, that it is also appropriate to draw these three million from the same department and I will support it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u420	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u421	Thank you, President. I'm joining the protest of colleague Pecanova. Although I will support the amendment, I would like to say to my colleague Jerovsk that the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy has said he is not worthy of these discussions, in the position he has. On the occasion, dear Jože, when we have foreign guests, of course, I will also point out the accusations coming from the chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee at the expense of the opposition, if you want to carry out or support genocide, if you want to disarm the Slovenian state and place it on the pranger, etc. I think that by someone who is at least obliged to represent a national assembly abroad, it is not appropriate to discuss it in such a way that it descends to such a low level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u422	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u423	I just want to say that I supported this amendment on the working body, that when we represented the position of the Group of Members, we announced that we would support it. I predict that we will also support him with Comrade Yelena then, especially for the sake of this, because with so little money we can do so much good that I think others should support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u424	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek made contact with the replica. I'm sorry, I didn't see it before.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u425	I wanted to say that I think Mr Juri is most suitable for speaking about decency and morality, and therefore I understand his intentions, but at the same time I insist on writing a few hundred amendments that take on Slovenian troops that abolish the police at the southern border, protecting the southern border that this is an attack on the Slovenian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u426	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u427	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am also hurt by what Jerovšek said. I do not suggest, colleague Jerovšek, any medical diagnosis, but I would invite you to the tennis court to take you into the mystery of spatial coordination, mental and physical stability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u428	I'd like to ask you to stop the controversy. Let's stick to the agenda, please. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u429	Respected and esteemed! For all the reasons stated by my colleague Barbara, I will support this amendment. But all this political fluttery that we've heard and all the accusations that have flown on us since the beginning, it's said from the enemies of the state, that's what I heard in the previous system when it was one party or how it was said, so we're going back with the same system in the same language. But still better demagogues than Demococas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u430	Once again, let's stop the controversy that has no agenda. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u431	Thank you very much. I'll support this amendment, but I'd like to express my concern. In view of the fact that it has already been said how effectively we have begun to draw on European funds, I would point out that I, too, have drawn attention to the very big problems and the story of the Equal Development Partnerships in the Member State which I have asked the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. And so easily accepted, to say the right source, confirms to me that this project has a question of how we will move it forward, just reminding us of how we have a relation to this Equal project, which already has some history and this history is not pleasant. But I will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u432	Thank you. He'd like to see you again, Mr. Capuder. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u433	In New Slovenia we will support this amendment. Especially because it seems to me that one of the few that the proposer knows how to write this amendment is to take someone who will remain on this subroutine. And I think it would be possible to do a lot with this little money and it seems to me that the applicant's wish was already on the committee and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u434	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the first amendment, proposed by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Mr. Lakhovnik, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u435	Yeah. Thank you very much. I will support this amendment myself, but of course I am in some way concerned or surprised that this amount of government itself could not guarantee and is throwing sand in the eyes, as we are now sensitive and ready to accept the opposition's proposals. You know, the government of three million tolars can easily provide within individual items and I think it is sad that the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia must thus correct some ignorance of the government. I will, of course, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u436	Thank you. Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u437	Thank you for your word. I will also support this amendment, which actually only brings 3 million dollars for the NGO. But it is important and I am very happy that we can, and I hope that we will all support it together. After all, our legal system has been set up to prevent the victims of crimes of sexual violence against under 14 years of age and also sexual violence against full-year citizens from protecting, defending, defending or defending any of these victims who have been abused in sexual activity. The judicial system deals only with the perpetrators, how it will bring the perpetrator to justice or how it will be brought to justice and the like. But we all neglect and forget that a child or a younger person who has been sexually abused is subjected to psychological and other pressures. And it is important for someone in this country to start with such or other actions to alert them. And surely this financial assistance of 3 million tolars can bring as much additional help as possible to a non-governmental organization so that in places where this is absolutely necessary, it can have any effect that these future victims will not remain alone or otherwise receive further psychological pressures.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u438	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u439	Thank you very much. I would not want my voice of support to this amendment to appear as demagogistic as all the voices that are now up to 3 million have become so mild as to go "only" for 3 million. I would be happy if, in the words of a colleague from the Slovenian National Party, when this amendment had already been proposed on the home committee, the government had listened. And all the mystery it had at the time when it was drawing funds from the Ombudsman's budget and unfortunately we couldn't support it. We don't like this program right now, but you're going to vote it out, not because of violence, but because it's only about 3 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u440	Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u441	Thank you. I will support the amendment, even though this source draws from the same bag as others who belong to a vulnerable group of people. Slovenia has committed itself to international acts and treaties to take special care of vulnerable groups of people. And I'll be happy if the next amendment is supported. Some amendments appear to be doomed to success and some amendments are doomed to failure. The one who talks about three million is, of course, supported by the coalition. But let me tell you that in Maribor, at a charity concert in one evening, we collected one million and a half with tickets and that the NGO raised seven million for the Maternal Home of Maribor. As far as how much money is made available from the state budget, which is now supported by such a great deal of consensus, one part of the story. Once again, the draft national social protection programme states that the State intends to increase the number of beds in safe houses, maternity homes, says those targeted at vulnerable groups of people, as well as children, thus reducing resources, does not provide sufficient resources and therefore we have to table an amendment that would allow a gradual increase of funds for the activity I am talking about, and I hope that you will be so understanding, respected Members and Members of the Coalition, including for the next amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u442	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u443	President, thank you so much for your word. Enough has been said to support this amendment. Of course, I was surprised that the government does not support this amendment, which is the social sense of the minister or government. This point shows that the business is run by the minister, not by the minister of the ministry, as the prime minister said. The same applies, of course, to the prime minister in another matter, because in this matter, the government has supported only one amendment from the crowd, and this is an amendment of the coalition, which shows the underestimation of the state assembly by the government, shows the underestimation of Members and shows that the state council does not need a government such as it is. I think that this lack of support for this appointment is also a mirror of the government that swings with its left hand when anything comes out of our bench and, of course, thinks it is enough for itself. I think that this arrogance of government, not the one that the previous government has received, but this arrogance of government has an exponent of five, which means arrogance to the fifth power. Otherwise, I cannot explain it to myself, given how the government has carefully examined these amendments and how it is also under such an amendment as this one has written that it does not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u444	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u445	Thank you very much. I have already said in the debate that I will support the amendment, because it makes sense because it comes from the Slovenian National Party. At this moment, of course, I would like to thank all my fellow Members and colleagues for the great support you are giving to this amendment, which certainly means assistance, assistance for the lives of the youngest and most vulnerable representatives of our society and all others who are victims of sexual abuse and, finally, the victims of the system. Excuse me, my colleague Kangler gave me a beautiful starting point earlier. I hope we can all make it to the next step. You know that we are preparing a new penal code that will undoubtedly also help to protect victims of sexual abuse, and I hope and expect your support back then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u446	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 39. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the third amendment proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u447	So, here's where I'm going to point out one interesting thing. The government itself, although I do not know for what purpose, but it has reduced the resources for training the military composition of the Slovenian army, here I am not talking now about the money movement in our amendment, but in the previous one, which you have slightly rejected. For 110 million tolars from exactly the same item as Mrs Žgajner Tavš or the Slovenian National Party proposed. Interestingly, 110 million tolars could have been reduced, for God's sake you know something, I'm guessing for some additional administration in some reform ministry. For 50 million tolars of this same reduction, which would total 110 million tolar reductions since before plus 50 million 10% reduction, no, this is not for you, it is already such a tragedy that this is not possible, because motherhood homes, as it seems, are not important for you. Now, of course, we propose to move the money from the training and defence system to the mother's homes. I think the military needs a mother's home too, but I think it might be good, not for soldiers, but for their wives and mothers of young soldiers, because they are victims of family violence, God knows what happens to them behind four walls, and so, of course, I will vote for this amendment, as I did for the previous one. And for your misbehavior and moralization under the previous amendment for the lousy 3 million dollars, I think it's a disgrace to all of you in the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u448	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u449	Thank you very much. So this amendment, like the one that will follow it, I will support it. Here a very dangerous debate opened up when we discussed the 2005 rebalancing, and when we faced the possibility and I fear that, even with the consequences of this possibility, resources to help mothers' homes, who are the protection of victims of violence, women victims of violence, are directed only to help those homes set up by the State and are not directed towards the non-governmental sector. This has also been pointed out to us now, before the 2006 and 2007 budget, by non-governmental organisations, and I am sure that I was not the only one who received this post, but that it should also move in this direction, to listen to the policy established in this area and to invest in too few current homes, because the number of violence against women is unfortunately higher every day. Here is the possibility of reforming the policy that I see that the Ministry of Labour is no longer following it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u450	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u451	Sufficient sources of funding must be provided to mothers' homes and safe houses. Indeed, thank God we have preserved some understanding and charity with us, and we know how to choose donors. However, it seems to me that such sources of funding must be sought for victims of violence in order to ensure a sufficiently stable functioning of safe houses and home, regardless of who their founder is. Unfortunately, we are witnessing too often that a single home or safe house is still being established, and unfortunately, the means for such an institution to function for a long time are missing. In fact, it would be better if we were given to reduce the number of beds in the home and safe houses, and this would show that the awareness of the inadmissibility of any form of violence against the weaker developed to this extent that we also became different in our conduct. Until that happens, however, it would be right to allocate adequate financial resources to the functioning of these institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u452	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u453	Thank you very much. I'd like to explain my own voice why I'm going to support this amendment. We have all received numerous appeals, calls for why these funds need to be provided. It's about maternity homes, it's about social policy in our country. All those who often knock on your chest with how you deal with some moral values, how I know it's family, now you have a chance to get these words into action. This amendment protects the weakest in Slovenian families, in those Slovenian families where violence occurs. Slovenia is a social state. In Slovenia, we must strive to ensure that a friendly country, a friendly society, is also for those who are the weakest in our society who are subjected to violence. Therefore, I believe that such an amendment needs to be supported, and I will support the amendment that allows for the normal functioning of the home.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u454	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 39. I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the fourth amendment proposed by the LDS Group. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u455	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Think about it, I will also support this amendment, because it is expected to have a very interesting and I must say a very smart source to cover the shift to even more useful and usefully needed than buying ammunition to teach our soldiers in shooting. Given that our Ministry of Defence has a very large amount for research and development purposes for 2006 and 2006, I think it could be found in this amount to teach soldiers how to shoot with simulators, but not that it will waste valuable ammunition. In fact, in my opinion, for someone to learn how to shoot, almost a billion tolars is far too high and a 50 million tolar reduction is more beneficial because there will be less stench, less rumbling and fewer problems for the environment if soldiers shoot less. At the same time, there will be more peace, more opportunities for development, more hope for a better future for a whole series of mothers with children who will find refuge in at least one home that will be created from these 50 million tolars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u456	Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u457	Dear colleagues, my friend! Today is a human rights day and from a number of hearings, not only the Ombudsman of Human Rights in this National Assembly, but also from European reports, it is clear that violence against women is one of the major problems of Slovenian society. Homes for mothers or for those who withdraw from such violence are overcrowded. We know that they can only live in them for a year and then face new problems. We know that somehow they no longer have a place to find these mothers or children who are victims of violence. And we know these kinds of problems. Perhaps even as a result of today, it would be correct or at least beautiful at the symbolic level if today we decided differently and not only on the amount that is being touched, I will say, less sums compared to our entire budget of three million, but a slightly larger amount, show your relationship to the family.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u458	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u459	Thank you for your word. So today a lot of things have been said, and I think even with this explanation of voice, why I don't support it, I'm going to say some things that have been dragging all day. Indeed, the needs are great and I am sure that, for such needs that we are dealing with here now, the former and the former government have already known. And I'm sure she had compassion for it, but apparently somehow it didn't work out. Now for the next one. From where it's taken. I've had a little look at these amendments, and I've processed them quickly, statistically, and I've found that there are exactly 80 items on the item that I'm going to say, the Slovenian Army, that I won't go into any more details and the police. Exactly, and only in the military, about 30 billion are taken. What do I mean by that? Those proponents, I know you have noble goals, but at least that would be agreed not to have one ministry, and one part of the company, has a special status in the country so that they don't completely tear it down. I didn't want to get involved before when the discussion was hot, but now I have to tell you these statistics, it's no longer serious, at least we'd be divided, it would look more credible. This cannot be a serious approach if 80 items are taken from these two sources, most, two thirds from the Ministry of Defence or the Slovenian Army, if you want. And that's the problem. I'm not going to say you deliberately did this, but I don't know how it's even possible that it happened, because then that department would completely spill and it's gone. He's gone. I'll stay on top of it, just with this warning, and with this statistical information, I won't have another. Because I'm sure you have noble goals, but, unfortunately, the matter is a little off-limits. That's why I can't support such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u460	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u461	The two amendments, which refer to the same content and relate to the same amount, I have already supported and will support the third. It is no coincidence that these three amendments overlap and that there is no proposal for any of these coalition parties, even though all Members and Members have received the same e-mail as we have received. But it is simply a matter of listening to those who have a sense for vulnerable social groups. The excuses for crashing will not go away because none of this has been accepted. What a serious approach this is to capture from this budgetary resource, but this is the case. Growth indices are far higher in this part of the budget. Whether in all cases there is a rational use of funds, there is another question, and the third question is whether 50 million can really destroy the country and its defence ability, and the promises we made to Nate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u462	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u463	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this amendment. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Nobel Prize winner for the economy said that each company faces limited budgetary constraints. [[...]] This is illustrated by the fact that, sooner or later, the factors in the hands of political choice are also deciding between two extreme options. Between butter and cannons. Here today we decide whether to reduce 50 million tolars on the supply line and give it to the mother's homes. It's a very easy decision. For 50 million tolars, we reduce the purchase of ammunition and increase the protection of those who are the weakest in our society. A very simple decision, which can be very easily justified, is why, of course, I will also undermine this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u464	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u465	Thank you very much. I myself will support this amendment, to this debate, which has gone far from the amendments, I would say the following. Members of the 92-94 mandate were facing a dilemma as to whether they would buy 100 billion weapons, but that was in 1993, when we were still threatened, whether they would take 30 billion and give 27 billion, respectively, to invest in the progress of the country. This is said to be education, school construction, lunch, whether to buy textbooks, computer literacy and foreign languages. And they had so much sense and spirit that they understood and divided this huge money into 27 billion for education and the rest for the purchase of ammunition that you can now take to waste, over so much time. I think that decision was very, very smart back then. Otherwise, they wrote about me, who led this project here in the National Assembly, that if there was a war, then the first bullet was for me, because I destroyed the national capacity of the Republic of Slovenia at the beginning. To speak with such love now, and by doing so, to take away funds for young people and jobs for needy and mothers, on the other hand, I find it strange. It is clear that no one would support all the money and all the amendments, but we could redistribute this budget a little bit, a little to some other segments that are needed. However, it seems to me that the opposition in this House is deaf and blind and also to the members of the coalition. I think we could find a little more tolerance, common understanding and support such an amendment that would be useful for a group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u466	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u467	With all due respect to some Members who are afraid of what will happen to the Slovenian repressive authorities, only two informations. Mr Janš's government adds 26 billion to these two repressive bodies in 2006. In 2007, 36 billion. Therefore, it is either a misunderstanding of the facts or a mere ignorance of the fact that you are still the rapporteurs on the open and counting two numbers. Mr Janša adds 26 billion to the repressive authorities in 2006. 36 billion in 2007. That is why we said in yesterday's opening statement that this is a bad budget because it gives the most repressive authorities. I can talk all the way! Thank you. These are the facts. Everything else is demagogy. Or you can do so much power that out of this 50 million instead of the ammunition that will anyway, I hope, go out of your way to the mother's homes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u468	Thank you. Mr Grimes, if you please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u469	Mr President, I ask you to use all the means available to you under the Rules of Procedure to bring the debate and explanations of votes within a reasonable framework. Earlier, this National Assembly lost one hour of time, which is likely to increase the costs of the extension of meetings, compared with that of the 3 million sum that has been discussed so vehemently, and now we are losing a similar amount of time by discussing the increase in the enlargement items that this country has committed to by general consensus and even plebiscite at the time of the adoption of certain international obligations. This is a security area and an area of cooperation in international organisations. And so I would ask you to point out this to all the debaters, and to really use all the possibilities that we can reasonably do what we're here for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u470	Excuse me. No, Mr. Squeakle, now I have the floor. The Institute of Voice Explanation was completely born, I admit. If you agree to follow the rules of procedure in a consistent manner, I will take the word of anyone who goes into the debate or even the controversy. And on this point, let me ask you something else, because this is exactly the point we're at. That is, after the timetable, we should start the 2nd point today. Since the explanation of vote is even more than the debates, we will have to conclude this point today and we will not be able to deliver it on Monday, so we do not expect to end it at eight. Procedural, Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u471	Thank you very much. Mr President, my procedural proposal is as follows. We do not have a problem with this proposal of yours, but of course I would ask you to do it businessly. If a certain group of Members opposes this, we will not be able to do so, because this humility still applies in this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u472	This is not a procedural proposal, but it is an abuse of the rules of procedure. Mr. Rugelj, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u473	Thank you. But I'll explain through the new system. I will not support this proposal, because now it is so, I would say that there are quite a lot of specialists in here for the special war. If we had taken into account all the amendments the opposition has drafted, we would have our army disarmed this afternoon. I hope that the Secretary of State knows. That's why I can't support it from this point of view right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u474	Thank you. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. In the subroutine, Social Protection for Disabled Persons, we have two amendments. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u475	Thank you very much. An hour ago, I announced that we would talk about this and ask that the LDS species be perfected so that they could vote on their amendment. What a great success. [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] The debate is, if you'll let me, I'll discuss it. [[...]] On our home work body, we supported this proposal, we supported even the one that was more difficult, we supported the amendment of the Social Democracy, which required construction in one year. Today, we support this second amendment, which is slightly nicer, which allows construction within two years, but still allows for the construction of what they need in the Maribor Połą. Why are we voting for this? Because for the first time, it's something that people with disabilities need in this house. Secondly, we would be sorry if this was not voted out, because I personally regret that we have made a considerable effort to coordinate in coalition lines to provide support. And for the third time, I will regret that Minister Erjavec of the United States has also called and agreed to separate this from the items that speak of his department for the construction of the POJ security and work centre. Not just words, I can confirm on some case that's empirical. In Ruša in the municipality, which I am directing, we have built a protective unit of the working center of Polž. At the time, there was no vehement support for this construction by today’s proponents. We are now just before the opening of another such unit, which is intended primarily for young people. We provided money for both units without much cooperation from the state, but with our own municipal funds. Perhaps now is the right time for the country to participate with its budget, and the right time to vote this amendment, so that the disabled in Maribor will have similar places to wait 10 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u476	Thank you. Mr. Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u477	Thank you, President, for your word. So far, I have abstained from all the debates because I have looked at the monitor and found out how much time is still available, even though I have sometimes been itchy to get involved in the debate in other areas. I gave priority to this amendment, which I myself have prepared, which I know in detail what it means, and which I have been able to talk to many of you about. It is a very sensitive area, it is the protection of people with disabilities, mentally or evenly disturbed persons, in fact the most socially disadvantaged and vulnerable population. And you've all been getting calls from the director of this institution to your e-mails. It's Sabina Friday, and it doesn't have anything to do with Mir Petk, and it doesn't have anything to do with me that doesn't get me wrong, but it's one of the most important directors of public institutions I know. She felt that it was worth the effort to convince us all together that this amendment needed support. It's not about the LDS amendment, it's about the amendment that I tabled, because there was no such thing as possible, the willingness of any of you in the coalition, today I think there's more of that willingness. This is not about the LDS amendment. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u478	Please, only Mr. Friday has the floor. A little patience, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u479	But it is an amendment to the benefit of those who expect this amendment to relieve them of the terrible, terribly alarming conditions in which they are. [[...]] If someone were to watch an old American movie today, in which they were showing it, I'd say orphanages, that's about what the terms of this institution are today. They operate under impossible conditions, operate under insufficient conditions, operate under conditions that are not worthy of human life, but only populations such as a disabled and mentally disturbed person. The person who needs the most attention is the one who can feed this cruel life in which it has been hurled. Is it a matter of the President's office that I may ask for an intervention? [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u480	Once again, Mr Squeakle, if you would like to take your place, Mr Lachovnik please at least allow your colleague to speak. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u481	In 1993, he brought about a change of the first 8 patients or foster parents to the present day of 183 breeders from all over the region. [[...]] It is not a Maribor institution, it is a regional institution ranging from Šentilj to Slovenska Bistrica and from Lenart to Lovrence to Pohorje, it is a institution where 37 farmers from Lenar region are involved in an institution where 24 breeders are from the Bistric area, that is to say, the entire regional population in need of such care. This office is operating in rented premises today. I would move, if we accepted this amendment, to the premises that are at the site of the former military barracks, that is, the public space made available by the Ministry. I must say that eight years of efforts have been made, of which five years have begun intensive preparation, from this year on, which is why the investment programme has been approved with the composition of the current government. The investment programme is therefore confirmed, it has all the documentation that if agreed this year, of course, it will start to work or conduct investment procedures. The investment programme, which states that the investment will start in 2005, has been confirmed by the Ministry. This office with the headmistress did everything in its power to review all possible and potential locations in this wider area, inspecting kindergartens, inspecting schools, inspecting student homes. The Minister knows all this, unfortunately he has found that a thousand 600 square metres of space are not available anywhere in any of these institutions and that the best option is that there is no doubt about it as a basis for existing work at this location and therefore there is no doubt about it. It is an area that I think that, in recent times, at least in this Slovenian space, we are also paying more and more attention to, and I do not know how we would have acted if any of us had such a position to have, work or live with a family member affected by this accident, perhaps then politics and societies would have looked at this situation differently. So I appeal to all of you precisely with a case which, I would say, is symptomatic, which shows how the situation can change. In America in the 1960s or '70s, they also had no obedience and no relation to this population, but it happened that one of these people experienced this fate in the prestigious Kennedy clan and President Kennedy himself supported all these investments and began the process of creating a different climate in society. And this policy, which Kennedy has embodyed, has adopted and found that in this society there is a different need for support, and this wider American society has since realized the situation completely different and humanitarianism in America is, of course, term number 1. I hope that what I said is not an abuse of my performance, but an argument that we should also know this in Slovenia, so that we should know first, and we are the ones who can influence the environment in order to change this situation. So, please, those Members I've been talking to, I hope you know, you've read everyone on the Internet what the Director has written to you, let's give support to something that I don't think will be fatally shaken by the ministry that we've been talking about for a long time and that we've heard that the Minister has somehow given his consent to intervene in this ministry. Thank you so much for coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u482	Thank you, Mr. Milan Friday. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u483	Your Honors are here! The question of the attitude of this National Assembly to the question of disabled persons or persons with disabilities is not at an envious level. If you remember events when the National Assembly set up working bodies, it did not want to give a working body or set up a working body that would have exclusively defined parts in the field of disabled persons as part of its tasks. As for the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the issue of disabled persons, it is not at an envious level. As everyone remembers, in the past month alone, or rather, you have only adopted some income laws or tax laws that will be negative in the reality or in the life of persons with disabilities. At that time, the Slovenian national party, and I will leave the name of the political party behind, tried to introduce a flexible tax approach so that companies employing disabled persons would be exempt from the tax. We have tried to enforce the same matter within the framework of the law on the profits of legal persons, as the law on income. However, allow me to stress in order to proceed in particular the need for the adoption of the amendment referred to or now before us. As the speaker put it before me, it is in the case of the Polža Regional Project. It is a project that is much wider-buried than just a location in one city municipality. It therefore ensures and complies with all the basic standards necessary to integrate people with certain flaws into as much quality of life as possible. But I would like to point out four more after my assessment of the very important information. More or less, the speaker or author of the amendment mentioned, but precisely because I feel that all four elements are very important, I will repeat them. First time. As has been said, it is a regional project that takes over if we take the region as a geographical term, a good part of Slovenia. Thus, the institution covers the promotion or integration of persons with disabilities, or the approximation of their lives as much as possible. Another time. All stages of investment were addressed at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. All phases were approved at this Ministry. Third time. The matter itself has been going on for eight years, or the investment has been in preparation for eight years. The following should be said that as regards the locations which have also been presented to us by the amendment's proposer, it has been proposed and confirmed both by the spatial planning agency, both substantively and locally suitable for carrying out this activity. And the fourth, which I think is of course very important in terms of decision-making, I sincerely hope that the National Assembly will make a positive decision towards this amendment, is that the investment programme has also been approved by the Minister, i.e. by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I estimate that it would be more wise or that it would be necessary for the National Assembly to adopt the amendment in question, and thus at least a little attempt to mitigate all the mistakes it has made in the current mandate in relation to the disability issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u484	Thank you. Mr. Mogue. We're still in the debate. Anyone else want a word? We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment proposed by the LDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u485	Thank you very much, President. I thought you were giving your word to those who are answering or counting on them to raise their hand. I myself will support this amendment of our Group of Members because I know the situation and I also know the programme of the Polža. I think it is more than necessary for us to take care of adults with mental and physical impairment during this period when we are no longer so poor. In Maribor, the country leased a military station with all the lands of Slava Klavora to provide suitable accommodation for the needs of education or other activities. Thus, a high school of textiles had already been built on these premises, where a high school of food had previously been built. Both schools have about 3,000 students with their departments, so much so that you can somehow create this relationship. This time, however, we will decide that the National Assembly will decide 112 users, with an estimated construction area of 1,600 square metres at a price of 450 million. So we're talking about an investment that weighs 450 million, and I think that according to other investments in education, health care, where numbers reach billions, and from 3 billion onward, this is really a minimum amount that we could acquire these spaces and somehow allow these older people a decent living in a home where they could be properly cared for. It is therefore more than appropriate to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u486	Thank you. Mr. Tanko? No, no, no. Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u487	Thank you for your word. Dear fellow Members, my fellow Members! I myself will support this amendment for various reasons, including private ones. Mother Nature was more or less inclined for us in the National Assembly to be as healthy, normal, and able to work. Mother Nature wasn't as fond of everyone as we were. And if the Minister of Defence, who has an insight into his department, has agreed that we can redistribute these 151 million dollars in the National Assembly to this transfer, then I think we can do it today and show that we have a hearing for it in the coalition. As I said, these people who have been harmed in any way will never get to know normal life in their lives. It is true, however, that this life, whatever they have, can be made possible by working conditions and quality of work for them to at least get what would be theirs in a normal social state. Believe it or not, there's probably not a few of you sitting here today who would know this situation the way I know them. I myself had the opportunity to have a family member, a sister who has been locked up since birth for 30 years on a wheelchair, and I would certainly be happy if her or other conditions at that time improved to provide at least such facilities as those for which we are being asked today in the National Assembly, where we decide, to at least help them in this way to secure this transfer of funding from the Ministry of Defence to the social programme we have in the proposal. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u488	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u489	Thank you very much. After all I have heard from investors and discussers who know this story well in their regional environment and, of course, what is very important is that it is also coordinated where you take the money, and there is a consensus given. And if more such amendments were prepared, I believe that they would be confirmed today, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, it seems to me that this is harmonised and there is no reason not to help these more difficult categories of our citizens, these are disabled people, and in this way we contribute some common support to this project, which is called the facility for our people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u490	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u491	Thank you very much. Since I'm at least, if nothing else, after the edge of my knowledge of disability, I'm running away on this decision to decide. It is perfectly normal for a policy in some area, in this case in the field of disability protection, to create and run a department responsible for this. And when the Secretary-General does not respond to such a question when adopting the budget, it is difficult for the Member to decide what is really in the content of the amendment tabled. I know that, in the previous mandate in the field of protection of work centres, we have done a great deal to set up the network and to draw some back into the final phase of this mandate. How this center is involved in Maribor, I don't know at the moment. At the time of such an amendment, the Minister should be involved in the debate. Therefore, there would also be less abuse of the Rules of Procedure when explaining the votes that are present today, and especially by the people who have served as ministers in their own time. I'll make up my mind. I know that it is not right for Members to decide on some content, even on many occasions at the expense of the populistly imposed matters. We, both the government and the National Assembly, and so far all governments have done much and far for those who also know comparatively other countries, to say that we are poorly caring for the disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u492	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Unfortunately, the Minister can't respond in the voice-explanatory phase. He has the floor to explain his vote, Mr Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u493	On behalf of the parliamentary group, but not because of the due time, but because we want to shorten this meeting. All members of the Slovenian National Party will be supported by the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u494	Thank you. Mr. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u495	In New Slovenia we agree that such a project must be supported. Look, for 8 years we knew that it was necessary to support such a project and the first year when our option came to power, you will come, gentlemen, with this amendment and that is why we will decide in New Slovenia whether we will support this amendment or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u496	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u497	I will support the amendment because, on behalf of the Group of Members, I will say thank you for the time, because this is an example of how the budget should actually be adopted. First of all, 250 amendments were not simply written by Members, but in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. What was missing was the lack of treatment on the parent’s working body, and above all, the government lacked a serious look at the contents of the amendments. Fellow Members of the club who wrote this amendment have worked very hard, and there is this explanation on both sides. Two words from the government. He doesn't support it. I think it will be necessary to consider whether this is the right way to work and prepare the budget, perhaps it would be better if the debate and adoption of the amendments were more substantive, but not to think that it is not right here and today to decide on its own conscience. And it is not unusual for us to have about 150 amendments to this budget and another 100 amendments to the budget next year. In 1998, 1999, 2000, 400 amendments and more than two, three were adopted. Therefore, the support of this amendment is, in fact, a reflection of whether Members have been able, in cooperation with the executive branch, to do what the executive branch should have done when the amendment was received for consideration. Let me remind you that on Monday, about 9 a.m., we didn't even have an opinion from the government on Monday, and it was just verbally said, "We don't support." At least it says it today, but the word is the same, "we don't support it." I doubt anyone read the contents of the amendment from Monday to yesterday when the government accepted it. Therefore, in the parliamentary amendment club, which is amended, we will be properly prepared to support it for the right things. He saves 120 adults, but he needs half the money he'll spend 10 times less reformists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u498	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u499	Thank you very much, President. Procedurally. I beg you, because I do not understand, you said earlier that you would strictly adhere to the rules, when the explanation of vote or when the procedural proposal is, and I do not understand why you did not interrupt the esteemed colleague of Exercise, because I think that only the last two, three sentences were, not that I think, but I am sure that only the last two or three sentences were in the context of the explanation of vote, so I would ask that we really stick to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u500	Mr. Mikolitch, you don't understand. All I did was say that this voice-explanatory institute was born. And that you're all discussing and conducting the controversy in your explanation of vote, and lastly you say, "I will support or not support the amendment." If I were to do this strictly, then be aware that I would, I don't know if a tenth would allow you a word or not break it. So unfortunately, we just keep going the way we are, and we're just going to sit a little longer, which is all right. Mrs. Uhanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u501	Thank you so much for saying that. But I'm going to start by saying that I'm going to support this amendment, no matter who proposed it. It seems to me that it is right, and we have also received some kind of permission from both ministers, the Minister of Social Affairs, the family and the Minister of Defence, that they will somehow agree and distribute this money and I think it is right to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u502	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u503	I say again that I will, of course, support this amendment for five reasons. For the first time, because I personally and sincerely support him. Second, because he's supported by the Secretary of Defense. Thirdly, because the amendment written by the Director and the explanation is so weighty that we can and must believe it. Fourthly because there is also a whole range of coalition Members and Members of Parliament who will support this. And for the fifth time, because I can say so far that what I am about to say is what I hope and believe because the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs also supports it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u504	Thank you. We're voting. I'm breaking up. No, he raised his hand when I went to the display. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u506	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u507	Mr President, I suggest you take a 15-minute recess to consult.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u508	Continue at 8:25 p.m., five minutes to half nine.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u509	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're moving on to the session. Please take your seats. I'm asking the motioner if he wants to explain his point of view? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on amendment number one. There are 59 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 5. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment proposed by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, for whom 22 votes against 37. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. In the subroutine, Social Protection of the Old, we have four amendments. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and move on to the vote on the first amendment proposed by the Socialists' Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 18 votes against 38. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are voting on the second amendment proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 18 votes against 38. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are voting on the third amendment proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 37. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the fourth amendment proposed by the LDS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 40. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. In the Sub-programme Social Protection, we have one amendment. I'm opening a debate. There's no debate. I conclude and move on to the vote on the amendment proposed by the LDS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 18 votes against 41. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to budget user 2711, Ministry of Health. We have three amendments in the sub-programme Investment Investments in Hospitals. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u510	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian National Party, we have invested nothing in the past five years, so much so that I remember back, I have never been, even this time, an amendment to the General Hospital of Trbovlje. In today's introduction, I did not use the word that it has been "stupid" by governments, not government and national assemblies. Now I'll explain why. In the 2002 budget, investment funds were included in the General Hospital of Trbovlje, the project has a number, a code and was made up of 1.3 billion tolars. With the amendment, an additional 50 million dollars were allocated to the budget to address the problem of surgery as a matter of urgency. In the 2005 budget balance, the resource for investment investments in the Trbovlje hospital has changed. It has been transferred from budget resources to other resources of 972 million and 345 million still had resources in the state budget. However, according to the 2006 and 2007 budget proposals, the source of investment for the needs of the Trbovlje hospital has changed again. The funding needed to build a new 6.4 billion hospital is expected to be provided through a public private partnership. Great. In fact, this would be agreed by all - 50,000 inhabitants of the statistical region of Zasavje. That would be a one-time, problem solved, and today I'd be here calm and quiet. But the story ends with the fact that in Slovenia there is not yet a regulatory arrangement of the public private partnership, in Slovenia there is no known form of partnership according to the way and the share of cooperation, nor is it known or produced a feasibility test in terms of the use of the partnership, no system of effective and control of the private partner in the provision of public services, no standards of quality of services are produced and only one big question remains what will happen after seven, eight, nine, ten years of calvary with the general hospital of Trbovlje. That's why this amendment, not out of greed, not out of speculation, not out of, I don't know, every year is the same story. But after six years, you know, it gives you the benefit of the doubt, all of us, and the Sauvages the best. Therefore, I am convinced that quality and affordable health care services must be provided in a hospital health care facility in the home on the basis of public funds, as long as it is not different. But we know that if there is no legal basis, we can talk a hundred times about CTU, "Public Private Partnership" public private partnership, etc. Even as far as I can remember, he is, of course, not in charge of the Minister of Finance, but he has promised to do everything possible to ensure that the relevant legislation is adopted this year. So we got nothing. After seven years, nothing's happened again. That is why this amendment, and for the 50,000 people from Zasavje, as their Member, I demand that hospital health care be regulated, not as it is, but as it normally is. If there is no legislation, if there is no financing for the public private partnership, then the state is obliged by law to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u511	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u512	Thank you very much. Dear President! I'm glad the government representative's here. So the property of the country, the hospital, is the attribute of every city. This need not be emphasized in particular. However, the state treats these hospitals as if it does not need them and does not even support them. I myself am joining Mr Barovic's words, and I also find that there is nothing better in the Sežan hospital than in the Trubwell, New Town, Autumn, Maribor, Celi. I'm talking about patients who didn't even get what they needed under the annual investment and current maintenance plan. The hospital did not even receive a tolar, and this government owed it 70 million tolars because they had made their programme a surplus because the price was not revalued and they could not actually get that money from the government. Look at the fraction, the government has even increased the amount of work allowed, even though we know that conditions in this hospital are impossible. The roof leaves, the installation is from Italian times, this hospital was opened by the dictator Mussolini and the fact is that there are also windows and doors from those times, not to mention the boiler room which is such that it leaves in all places. The Minister and Secretary of State here have been looking into the hospital situation. And I asked the minister, "Mr. Doctor, would you like to work in a hospital like this?" And he got away with it, didn't he? So, the promises fell on the visit. None of these promises have been made. I ask you, honourable Members, whether you will allow the state to behave so recklessly towards its property. This hospital, as well as many of them, are developing their own programs. In Sezhana, we have developed a new programme of Spelotherapy, dialysis and in fact we also have a care programme. However, the state does not find the money for the emergency maintenance which, according to some perfectly normal logic, would be urgent and liquid. I suggest you actually think about where we're going to get this money, because the devil won't take the army if she has one less cannon to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u513	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Does the Secretary of State want a word, or will you end up? Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u514	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We in the LDS Member Club have re- tabled an amendment to the hospital health care sector, and especially to investments in public health institutions, the money that has already been seen in the budget under this item. The introductory explanation of this budget said what a huge increase could be observed in the field of health, but it was not said that, with the 2005 budget rebalancing, we also carried a large proportion of the funds for these items. A large number of funds were reduced on this item in investment investments in public health establishments, as there was a decrease of more than 2 billion. Today we are already facing individual amendments, according to individual hospitals, because we have a law that says that by 2008 on investments in public health institutions. The means here are shrinking and the warnings that are going here are, of course, going in this direction, so that such concrete individual amendments will, of course, be significantly higher over the years, as investments in this area are far behind. If we add to this the necessary equipment that could be invested through these funds, then of course the story is quite clear that there is a substantial shortage of resources at this point. We want, of course, to return with the amendment what has already been taken from the balance, that the dynamics of investments in hospitals, walls and equipment will naturally increase substantially, and that we will be able to do what has already been agreed and coordinated in recent years. We would, of course, like to see projects for the construction of individual public institutions, among which we would like to see a children's clinic in Ljubljana and with all the other hospitals throughout Slovenia as a priority, say that investment is still less than necessary, despite the fact that this amendment will still be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u515	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Also a representative of the Ministry of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u516	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me a brief explanation as to why the government does not support these amendments. In this presentation, it was a bit of a mix-up between the two systems, the system you are discussing here today, this is budgetary funding, and the other part where the programme is financed. The funds provided for investments in hospitals, as well as at the primary level as you could see, are increasing, are higher, and we can argue that we will carry out projects on schedule, as we have predicted. If I start with the last Member, with the Group of Members. We insist and promise that the projects you mentioned, the pediatric clinic, the oncology institute, the neurological clinic will be carried out as promised. The pediatric clinic at the beginning of 2007, the remaining two in 2006 and many others, as we are going to increase the efficiency of the sector. If I just give you a few numbers. During the first 10 months, we increased the burden on available resources to over 14 billion. The provisions already recorded are somewhat in excess of 11 billion, in short, we have increased significantly. The overload is 2.25 times higher than it was last year, i.e. during the previous government, the overload is 1.7 times higher. The funds that are are are also earmarked for this. We want to run these projects. It would also be a burden for the budget to just allocate resources and not use resources. With regard to the equipment mentioned above, there are also important movements here. Let me remind you, two linear [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] nuclear magnetic resonance, computer tomography, multiple X-rays in some hospitals, and I'm not gonna talk about that last part anymore. [[..]] With regard to the question addressed to the Trbovljej hospital, let me stress that the project is being completed, where a new hospital will need to be put in place. So this proposal, which you have proposed by the Members, would only allow reconstruction, but this is not the right solution, because experts believe that it is necessary to put the hospital on a new footing. A project has been carried out to assess what programme this hospital will be carrying out over the next ten years. We want to be able to do and build a project within the framework of the current legislation, equip and probably turn it over to someone in the management of the building, or only with some kind of leasing, building and equipment in 2008. The representatives of the Trbovlje Hospital are very active in this project, I am chairing this group and the work is expected to end in the following year. As far as Séžana is concerned, it is difficult to accept that it is a pastor or that we have forgotten about them. We are looking for and finding important new content this year, not really that the program would not get, but as much program as it can and is capable of doing, we have dedicated as much to the hospital. However, if the project is to be fully completed, where investment investments are likely to be included, it will be necessary to consider the full content of the hospital in Sežana, which is likely to be of other content in addition to extended hospital treatment. If I conclude, the government does not support the proposed three amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u517	Thank you. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u518	Dear Secretary of State! Speaking of which, let's be specific. You said you supported the new programs. Dialysis is a whole new program in the hospital, but it was actually funded by the local community, not to say the company, the construction company. Everything is made for leasing, except what is yours, is essentially issued a concession to carry out this activity. Programmes. Of course, you've increased the program in the hospital, but in desperately poor conditions, but you haven't paid the debt you have from the past. I told you before, you owe 70 million to a hospital, a respected secretary, 70 million from this increased work in the past, which has been done and for the price that has not been revalued in recent years. And here we are all deaf. Of course, you are now going to increase this by allowing an increased amount of work to be done in desperate poor material conditions, and I do not know what conditions. That's incomprehensible. You can't do more work if there's no conditions. A fisherman, if he doesn't have a fishing rod, he can't fish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u519	Thank you. Yes, please, probably a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u520	Your Honor! I'll be very brief. As far as the dialysis programme is concerned, the management of Sežana Hospital has undertaken to cover this part of the investment alone. As for the programme and the debt, this is not a debt of the Ministry of Health or the budget, but it is going to go from compulsory health insurance and to calm it down in some way, the Sežana hospital is included in the convergence programme, where we will look for a part of the programme that has been implemented and can lead to certain losses, even in the shortest time possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u521	Thank you. I also give the floor to a representative of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u522	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. I would like to touch on the fact that this item is against funds for the Slovenian Army, specifically in the field of training of the Slovenian Armed Forces military. I would like to point out that this year the Slovenian Armed Forces reached a number of thousands of 500 members in the area of the contractual reserve. And it goes according to the programs in this area. In the event that funds, as in this particular case, are flowing elsewhere, this does not only mean that we cannot continue the activities and procedures of completing the contractual reserve forward in the following year, but we will even be able to sign these contracts, which we have recently signed with the Contracting Parties, we probably have to reject and practically cancel them, which I think would be very negative for the process of professionalising the Slovenian Army. So that in all the procedures that are under way in the field of ambition, what else should be taken up by the Slovenian Army and the defence system, I think that at least one of these amendments could be withdrawn and not stem from too many positions whereby practical processes, which have been consensually agreed in this national assembly, could also be carried out further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u523	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u524	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In particular, I would like to thank the representative of the Government, because what Mr State Secretary from the Ministry of Health said was the first substantive discussion and the responses of individual government representatives. However, I cannot help but note the need to be careful that if the government has already taken over public debt once, how to ensure with the appropriate substantive structure and by limiting their spending, there would be no increase in these debts and acquisitions into the state budget or Slovenian public finances. We did this last year or this year through Slovenian public finances, the so-called net concept, because of the certain commitments that have been made. However, it is right that now the resources and spending are limited according to the options and in this respect the amendments are correct and we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u525	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u526	Thank you, Madam President, only two more lines. So once again, I would like to point out that this is the property of the country. The state owns this hospital and is obliged to maintain it. And last but not least, you can also correct a mistake from the past, if you remember, Mr. Secretary of State, you were not there at the time, but you know this, and Sežana Hospital was deprived of the capacity to treat lung patients and allocated to Isola and Šempetr, and there were no pulmologists. And today, today, if we could actually do a lot of things with that money, we have the same condition as we have. That's on you at the Ministry. Sorry, that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u527	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the first amendment proposed by the LDS Group. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 37. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are voting on the second amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 38. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the third amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 37. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. In the sub-programme Programme for Health Protection and Strengthening, Reducing Health Differences and Development Research, we have one amendment. I'm resisting the debate. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u528	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. So our amendment refers to preventive programmes, i.e. programmes to protect and strengthen health, reduce health differences and develop research activities. So this is mainly about the need to provide additional resources to support organised social structures that are carrying out very large activities in the area of preventive health. Only when you, Mr President, had reception here for certain groups that talked about certain diseases did you see how wide this movement was, which spoke of only one specific group. And when we were able to listen to what their activities are, if we mention only certain groups, for example, with cancer, we could find that, with the support of their activities in the preventive field, they could do extremely much and that these groups, which are very well organised, are in fact without all or very minimal assistance that could enable them to do much better work. And, of course, their essential better work should only be stimulated to this extent, where we could normally function, and we are convinced that such an approach would result in a significantly lower disease, which would on the other hand provide significant savings. Of course, in this direction we have proposed this amendment and please, colleagues and colleagues, for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u529	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u530	Thank you for your word. We also support these amendments by the Social Democrats, and we hope that this will also make a major contribution to today's amendments that we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u531	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 39. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to budget user 3911 of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. In the sub-programme, we have two amendments to the scientific research activity. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u532	Thank you for your word. We have two more minutes to discuss, so it is right to try to warn ourselves that in Social Democracy we advocate that we really invest more in scientific and technological development. The most economically developed countries, Japan and America, are investing around 3% of GDP for this purpose. We also believe in Slovenia that we must follow this trend. Otherwise, the funds we are taking are back at the Ministry of Defence in the field of development and research. Given that America is also working hard on development and research, we may be able to sum up some of their findings and not have to invest so much in military technology or development and research, but more in the other economy. So we think that this amendment is really one of those that can be accepted. For without knowledge, without investing in research, we cannot imagine in technological development that Slovenia will come into the circle of the most developed countries in a way that will also fulfil the Lisbon Treaty, strategy and all the rest of the efforts that we often hear are necessary if we want to keep pace with the developed countries. So, let's allocate R & D resources instead of military activity to economic activity, and this amendment makes it possible, at least 500 million, which is certainly a nice step towards further development of our technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u533	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the first amendment proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 39. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a vote on the second amendment, which is also proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 52 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 39. [[The vote was 13.]] ) v. 39.) I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. In the subroutine of the Information and Communication System, we have five amendments. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u534	There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving to a vote on five. For the debate, Comrade Moge. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u535	In the parliamentary group, we have proposed this amendment because we want to improve the financial situation and thus effectively ensure further development opportunities and the smooth functioning of the Arnes public institution. Scientific research, educational spheres must be able to access the Internet and, above all, to connect the international network of academic networks. With the amendment, we are increasing the projected appropriations in the 2006 budget by 13 million, thus restoring the level of funds to what the previous government had foreseen in the 2005 budget. This government has great ambition to have an email address on the web server and that of course [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u536	The time of the Group of Members is up. I hereby conclude the debate on the fifth amendments. We are moving on to a decision on all five amendments, logically to each individual. We are therefore moving on to the vote on the first amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 55 Members present, 16 votes against 39. [[The vote was 16.]] ) v. 39.) I take it that the amendment under the order number is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, the proposed parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 55 Members present, 17 votes against 38. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3, the proposed parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy. Ambassador Mogo, on behalf of the Group of Members? On your behalf. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u537	Dear colleagues and colleagues. This amendment has also been tabled in order to provide a broader framework for projects in the field of speeding up existing Internet connections in primary and secondary schools. We are all aware that for a long and wide period of time we have spoken that we want to connect to every student bed, of course, on the Internet. We are increasing these funds by 30 million Slovenian tolars, and it seems to me that if this money were available, this network of connections to the Internet, where there are now about 5,000 students, student beds, could be increased by reaching 10,000 in two years, which would be sufficient for the entire student population in the Republic of Slovenia. There is no need to talk about the role of Internet access for the student population, as a lot of the services offered by the textbooks before are now being taken over from the internet. And if this amendment were to be supported, but only to add 30 million Slovenian tolars, we would have achieved that in 2 years all students in student homes would have access to the Internet, so please support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u538	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 40. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth or the amendment under order number 4, the proposaler is the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 5, and the drafter is the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 39. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. However, we are moving on to a decision-making and debate in the sub-programme of the Programmes for the Promotion of Technological Development of the Economy, where we have two amendments. We will hold a debate on both amendments at the same time. The first amendment is from the Social Democrats' Group of Members and the second amendment is from the same proposer. Who wants to discuss it? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We will decide on the first amendment of the drafter of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 5 of the same motioner, which is the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the debate on amendments under the Higher Education Sub-programme, where we also have two amendments, the first amendment is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group and the second amendment from the Liberal Democracy Club. Who wants to discuss it? Here you go, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u539	Thank you for your word. I would like to say that the closer we get to the end, the more I realize that I was right about the amendments, the ones I didn't support, that I did the right thing. In fact, here's the amendment that the Ministry of Defence is taking 500 million. If I had believed in what those amendments proposed, that it would be good to confirm them, then we would now be in such a place that the Slovenian Army would have to sell all the waves, all the Pilates, all the flies, all the hamsters, only the M48 could keep, and all the barracks could be sold, we could keep the only Poček where they would put the tent for the Slovenian army, because, in fact, such money could no longer work. And the minister couldn't make a phone call from America because he didn't have a phone anymore, and he probably couldn't travel to America anymore. That is why even now I will not be able to support this amendment, because the matter is seriously not serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u540	Thank you. This concludes the debate and brings us to a decision. We'll decide first on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I therefore note that the amendment has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, the candidate is the Liberal Democracy Club. Comrade Mogo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have tabled this amendment with the ambition that more resources are needed in postgraduate studies even now that students are still studying in the old system and not in the Bologna. That is, they get a degree, until then the state finances them all, and in the postgraduate, master's and doctoral studies, these funds obviously run out very much, and we have too few people today. All the parties were somehow agreed that, or after the introduction of the Bologna system of study, the second stage of the study would be attempted by the State to cover 60% of the costs, if not even to fully cover these funds. With this amendment, if we accept it, this generation, which is among those who will start studying after "Bologna", and among the old ones who are implementing old study programmes, would certainly help with the difficulties that will arise when they go to postgraduate studies, which we know are not really cheap these days. So I would ask you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u542	Thank you. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on amendments under the Sub-programme of Post-graduate Education. We have two amendments tabled here. The first is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members and the second is the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament. Who wants to discuss it? Nobody. I also conclude the debate with this. We're moving to the vote. We are voting on the first amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 41. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two, the proposaler is the Liberal Democracy Club. Comrade Mogo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u543	On behalf of the Group of Members, because this amendment is very important. I think that due to the irresponsible attitude of the Slovenian government we will be forced to sell the student home Korotan in Vienna this year and thus lose the Slovenian student home in the middle of Vienna, and the Slovenian cultural activity that has been taking place in Korotano will also be lost. Most of the students from Slovenia live in the house for a long time and not Koroška Slovenci, in the school year last year they had 52 Slovenians and 10 of them, from Koroška. The common setting allows students to communicate in their mother tongue, cultural activities and events, and contact with Slovenian culture from the replacement, eviction and matrix. At this point in Vienna, he is studying about 200 students from Slovenia, a quarter of whom are in Korotan, as I said earlier. In the future, it is likely that more and more students from Slovenia will perform part or all of the studies abroad. As soon as possible, Vienna will remain one of the first choices, both because of the geographical proximity and the relation of culture and because of historical connection. Some of the study directions, in particular the music in which Vienna holds one of the world's capitals, the Slovenian University does not prevail. Korotan is also one of the venues for the promotion of Slovenian culture in the Austrian capital. Just as the Slovenians in Buenos Aires have their own home, so the Slovenians had a long-term refuge in Korotano in Vienna, so I ask you to support this amendment. It is not so much the help of the Slovenians as the symbol represented by Korotan in Vienna.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u544	Thank you. We are moving to a vote on the amendment under order number 2 under the Sub-programme Post-graduate Education. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 38. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] We're moving to a subroutine of Study Assistance. We also have four amendments tabled here. The first comes from the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, the second also by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and the fourth by the Social Democrats' Group. I am opening a debate on all four amendments at the same time. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] This concludes the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. We are voting on the amendment under order number one, the proposaler is the Liberal Democracy Club. We're voting. 61 Members and Members attended, 20 votes in favour, 39 votes in favour. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two, the proposed parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number three, the candidate is the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 39. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number four, the proposaler is the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 20 votes against 38. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Education and Sport. Under the sub-programme Primary Education we have five amendments. I'm opening a debate on all five amendments. My friend Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u545	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. With the amendment under order number 3, the new, beautiful gabarits or skeletons of the new elementary school in Jerena would also receive content. It is said that by adopting this amendment, children who were promised to be able to attend a new school as early as September of this year could actually begin to attend in the spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u546	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We will decide on the amendment under order number 1, the proposaler is the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 39. I take it the amendment has not been accepted. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] In making my decision, I am putting an amendment under order number 2, and the proposaler is a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Ambassador Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u547	Thank you. I want to explain the amendment before you. For 55 million it is necessary to provide for the construction of a gym at the primary school of Franc Rozman Stanet in Maribor. The municipality of Maribor has provided the necessary funds, after that certain share that the State is supposed to co-finance for the construction of a gym at the primary school, this money should be provided so that the investment can be completed in time. These funds are not provided in the 2006 budget or in the 2007 budget, where the country would need 18 million. I'm sure you'll gladly support an amendment that is in the best interest of the young generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u548	Thank you. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 40. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting an amendment under order number 3, the candidate is the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am making an amendment under order number four, the proposer is the Italian and Hungarian national groups. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am making an amendment under order number five, the proposer is an Italian and Hungarian national group. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 37. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Within the framework of the budgetary user, we are transferring the Ministry of Education and Sport to the sub-programme of General, Secondary and Professional Education and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Who wants a word? My friend Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u549	Thank you for your word. By adopting this, we, who are still here today, could ensure the normal progress of the educational process at the secondary guest school in Maribor. Today this school no longer meets any conditions, no conditions for the course of the educational process, and the others are also questionable, I will say, construction conditions, because the school, nicely said, is one common mess. Water plantation and sewerage are all over the place. The learning process has long been no longer carried out in the school premises. I had this opportunity myself, as well as the minister, to see where the teaching was actually going. I'm going to say that it's going to be going into one space called a shelter, where 10 chairs and children or students change, alternately in this room and learn. Therefore, I ask you to support this complement of the Slovenian National Parties, because it is the education of young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u550	Thank you. This concludes the debate and brings us to a decision on this amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 21 votes against 38. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Help in primary education and Help in secondary education. Two sub-programmes, we tabled an amendment to the Liberal Democracy Club. I'm opening a debate. We're moving to the vote. My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u551	I'll speak for the Member Club. This topic is an inexhaustible source for each budget and for the consideration of certain laws. This amendment, however, increases the means of nutrition for children and adolescents. This matter was introduced in the past by this State Assembly in 1993 for social weaknesses and thus receives a warm meal of about 30% of the schooling youth. In the previous term, however, she was a party that is now leading the coalition that has introduced the law on the basis of which we should give everyone a warm meal. We gave it back then, the country can't do that, but to be careful, we increase these funds and allow an ever-widening spectrum of people access to a warm meal. I think it's an act that's been done in the past when they hit our chests and pointed to us with our left finger, that we're weak, that we suck, that we don't care about people, that now the hour of truth will come. Whoever does not now support this amendment, but has previously passed the law right in front of the Slovenian public, how distasteful the previous position is, forgive me, has a double morality, and in philosophy they are called "homo duplex". Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u552	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 35. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 35.]] We are moving on to debate and decision-making under the sub-programme Help in Secondary Education, where an amendment of the proposed Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is available. I'm opening a debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Comrade Mogo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u553	I would also have a word here on behalf of the Group of Members and thank you very much for allowing me to speak. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we can put a mirror in front of each other. At that time, we said and adopted a revision of the legislation for the transport of students to give to those who are socially at risk, because the state can no longer, and we have set the criteria. The authors - now the Democratic parties, then the Social Democrats - have passed the law on all transports, completely to all. At least now we ask if you have been for everyone to at least support a small fraction, that this part, which we have previously provided for at least a nuance, allows children to improve their social status and also allows those children from faraway places to come to school more easily. As long as you do not support this, as before, we will create our own opinion on what you have done in the previous term. But let's not play games, colleagues and colleagues, with party betting, I seriously tell you, try to support this amendment and then give some agreement that even in this mandate, when you run the government, these children need to increase and increase the standard.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u554	Thank you. Member Sok has the floor. Explanation of voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u555	Thank you very much. Although it is very late and we are being asked back here, these initiatives are very good, but once again I would like to say that we cannot vote in favour of this amendment. Again, it is a matter of trying to provide some funds in a substantial amount, and this is from the rent of the premises. You can't take money from rentals for business premises because then you can send people to tents. These are items that you can't simply reduce in this way. It's the same with the previous amendment. For a decade now, we have been repeating that we cannot take resources from the rural development programme because this programme is agreed with the EU. This is an agreed programme and we cannot change it, ladies and gentlemen. In the LDS of those 12 years when you also had negotiating positions when you negotiated with the EU, you should know that these are agreed programmes. And if we reduce these funds, we simply give up the financial resources offered to us by the Brussels cashiers. This simply cannot be done, so we cannot support this amendment, nor can we support the previous amendment for this reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u556	Thank you. Member Moje you have applied on your behalf, please also take into account that we are in the stage of explanations of vote. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u557	I'll be right there. As we can see, the excuse for an excuse is raining. If we accept this thing, we will then proceed to the harmonisation amendment. And if the government can't, which is now in your hands and you support it, find it in the harmonisation amendment of this money, then I don't know why it's taking its place. If it were willful and truly thought, we would not make it an excuse and now vote nicely for this amendment, and we could look ourselves honestly in the eye.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u558	Thank you. Vote explanation, Ljubo Germič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u559	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I used to almost bet that the amendment that talked about school meals would be adopted. Adopted in about the same way as the silent adoption of one of the amendments of one of the applicants for one primary school, because I very well recall how many words were spoken here in terms of support guaranteed to the food of secondary school youth. The amendment proposed by the parliamentary club follows, of course, the idea that was presented when we discussed the law. Therefore, it is a matter of gradually involving everyone in the design of school meals and in the provision of compensation for transport. The rejection of these amendments, of course, today, speaks much about the purpose of the then billmakers. With the support of this amendment, however, we follow that the accessibility of a learning youth living throughout Slovenia outside the centres could be the same. And, of course, we are proposing this amendment and we want this process to be built on this one. I will be very surprised again if this amendment, like the previous one, is rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u560	Thank you. Comrade Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u561	Thank you for your word. Given the lack of support for the amendment, which sought to provide more resources for the construction of student homes, it is, of course, necessary to provide at least more funds for the transport of pupils. This is one of the most logical decisions and, of course, I think it would be really appropriate for students' transports to be regressed at a higher level and a higher level than is possible so far. As far as rentals are concerned, of course there is a solution in Slovenia, because there are locations where rentals are significantly cheaper than where they are hired today. In this way, the public administration should also divide slightly - from the centres, also unloading parking spaces in the largest cities. With this we will achieve, I think, again and again, a coherent regional development, so that this amendment has a really very large impact in the wider field or we can really go to every place in Slovenia to help him either by repressing him or by renting a business space. Even in Osilnica, when we talked about it earlier, there are quite a few business spaces available, so that the lease would also be convenient and I suggest that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u562	Thank you. Explanation of voice. My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u563	Thank you very much. Now, given that I have been relatively busy in the past mandate with this topic of nutrition and transport, I must say that I am very surprised that such an amendment has been prepared on these two items. With regard to transport, in fact, 60% of the overall relief or status relief was proposed, which was slightly overrun in the then coalition - for the first time. The second time you somehow took on a modified matter that is actually extremely modest. This 140 million, where you propose an increase, is not in accordance with the law, because the law accurately sets the lower limit of co-financing to which it belongs and so on. And then we proposed a really better solution, which would be a solution to demography, because it would allow all those coming from faraway places to access the city under significantly better conditions than what followed. And I think that the use of instruments, amendments, such as you have made now, serves only for population purposes or for popularity, but does not completely save any content. When there was an opportunity, you didn't listen to it, we couldn't save anything. It is sad that urban transport is much better, which is about 55% of the subsidy for all students, while for people who come from rural areas, and because the map is also significantly more expensive, the previous coalition failed to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u564	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 36. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budget user the Ministry of Culture. Under the sub-programme Maintaining cultural heritage, we have six amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on all six amendments at the same time. Who wants a word? My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u565	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, for a little while. As you know, we have already confirmed in our consideration of the budgetary consumer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the European Aviation Museum is needed within the European framework. Later, we confirmed with 10 million or all of the Slovenian National Party's amendments as a contribution to the Ministry of Defence to build this European Aviation Museum, now we have confirmed all the doubts expressed during the day that the Ministry of Culture is also the one that goes 10 million towards the European Aviation Museum and thus concludes the so-called European-level museum network. As far as we are successful, it means that, of course, good work can withstand something of European money and, of course, the importance of our country, our technical and other culture, and economic and tourist development will be proven. I hope that we will also round up this story and confirm that we did the right thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u566	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Battelli's.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u567	Yes, thank you. I've got nothing against the airport museum, but I've got something here - as I might say - in my heart and mind. First of all, what this story is, European, is unclear. Secondly, the explanatory statement states that this is a continuation of a project for which funds are to be provided already in the 2004-2005 budget period. But with regard to the construction initiative, the government has adopted certain decisions on support and has committed itself to forming a group to be proposed by the competent ministries and so on. Now what I find really dramatic - I would say - is whether or not Mr Jelinčič will be a member of this group. And yet, I don't understand how this structure is going to work, given the 10 million in one ministry and the other in the third and so on. I really don't know how to express my voice here about this big project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u568	Thank you. The government has also taken the floor. Here you go, government representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u569	Respectable. The government has already appointed a working group whose task was to prepare a preliminary study on the feasibility of an aviation museum. The working group's report was concluded last month and submitted to the government and the government has made its declaration in this way that it has adopted the report. If anyone is interested in what the report says, you can also get these things at the Ministry of Culture or at the General Secretariat of the Government. In short, in one word. The proposal of the working group is for those who have an interest in building this museum to establish a consortium, which will then take further steps in the preparation of the project.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u570	Thank you. Comrade Jelinczych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u571	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I thank the government representatives for their exhibits. The fact is, it's actually a complicated project - a little breathing because I ran in - [[...]] [[Laugh.]] The laborate is prepared to a large extent. [[...]] In fact, most were prepared about two years ago, but then Mrs. Richtar set up the whole thing, lost it, forgot it, or threw it into the round archive, that's what the basket says. Now, I hope this thing is starting to move. In fact, it began to move at the last moment, because in the European Union or in the assembly of the Western European Union, the Germans and the French began to "fly" around me in order to give up this museum in Slovenia and to build it. So I must say that I am extremely happy about what happened today, I thank all my colleagues and colleagues for their support, especially the government. I think that this way, when the government has issued now essentially "heat" we will also get a whole series of planes. I can say that in recent times, Sweden has offered me two Faab Winggen and Drake reaction aircraft, which are now being put out of operational use, and both planes could already have been in Slovenia - for "shank", as it is called. I hope that these things will be carried out so that this museum will begin to prepare and build as soon as possible. In fact, it will be an extraordinary monumental building, which Slovenia will write - we can say in terms of the projects we have, those we are involved in, in the heads - for example, between a very narrow number of miracles in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u572	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the amendments tabled and brings us to a decision on the amendments tabled. I am putting an amendment under order number 1, the proposaler is the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. My colleague Mogo, explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u573	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment. But I have to say, my respectable colleagues and colleagues, our attention is falling terribly. In the last four amendments I have explained, I have given such explanations when they were not included in the amendments at all, but apart from one member from the Slovenian National Party, he has not reacted much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u574	Comrade Mogo, I believe it cannot be proud of you that you do not know what amendment you are talking about and I ask you not to blame the National Assembly for your mistake. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, the proposed parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In making my decision, I am putting an amendment under order number 3, the proposed parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 36. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In making my decision, I am putting an amendment under order number 4, and the proposaler is a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18. (against 39.)]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In making my decision, I am putting an amendment under order number 5, the candidate is the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Here's the emissary of Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u575	Thank you very much. Kobile Lipica is a first-class cultural monument of national importance. Today it also belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture, which is unsustainable in terms of the situation and importance of Lipice. The funds earmarked for Lipica within the Ministry of Agriculture will be allocated to the Ministry of Culture, which will be required by the collegiate to fully provide adequate protection and to restore it, to revive it touristically and to present it as one of the hallmarks of Slovenian identity in the world. That's what it says under number 10 in the coalition contract. The coalition will ensure that the position of the Leipzig coba is finally settled and fully placed under the competent Ministry of Culture. This amendment does this. It establishes not a whole, but a small fraction of the money from agriculture to culture. I'm telling you, the positional parties, because you didn't do it yourself, did it to the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u576	Thank you. Comrade Sok, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u577	Thank you very much. I still have to say here today that it is not possible to draw funds from the rural development programme. So, all these amendments you tabled, and we are repeating this today, and the secretary has told you this: it would be better if these amendments were withdrawn than if we voted on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u578	Thank you. Comrade Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u579	I will support this amendment, Mr Vice-President and fellow Members, and I will reiterate to Mr Sok 13 that he does not understand the rural development programme and that he does not understand the logic of financing and that he does not take rural development [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u580	Comrade Pavel Gantar, I remind you once again that we are in the stage of explanations of vote, I beg you, if Members do not take advantage of this. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 40. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the last amendment under this sub-programme, the proposaler is the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Comrade Shirtz, take your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u581	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members. For 2006, the cultural tolar is programmed with 487 thousand tolars, and the amount should be 2 billion as the real law. The Ministry of Culture these days has been vehemently issuing decisions on the protection of the stadium, on the protection of the collision, on the protection of the sugar shop and ordering the owner of maintenance. He doesn't have the money for it and he doesn't program it in the budget. When the government had to decide what position it would have in the European Union with regard to exemptions for investment in cultural monuments and religious buildings, it said vehemently: no. We do not support Member States of the European Union who want to have a lower rate of taxation of investments in cultural monuments. Cultural monuments in Slovenia are so slowly renewed because they are so expensive that the stones fall on our heads, so much more so because the decrees protect and delay their renewal. Here you have the opportunity to serve the wishes of Slovenk and Slovenes in addition to the international Slovenian-European aviation museum, which serves one wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u582	We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Cultural programmes of special groups in the Republic of Slovenia, and to one amendment proposed by the Italian and Hungarian national groups. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 40. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Library and Publishing and Amendment, which is proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u583	According to the Government's assumptions, the so-called Cultural Tolar Act, as set out in the 2006 budget, will be implemented under 40% for 2007. Cultural networks, including bookkeeping and publishing networks, are one of those networks that can develop and provide more plural access to certain content, both in the field of film, publishing, in the field of media and in the field of youth culture. They're all fed. We have not submitted all the amendments, given that we know what fate would befall them, but we have highlighted at least one segment of bookkeeping or that publishing work, which has at least a position within its kind of assembly and other intellectuals, which say that the Slovenian nation, however, and the Slovenian state somehow sees itself through its cultural mission, is heard. It is 8 million dispersions and aids to bookstore networks that are, we know, undernourished or threatened.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u584	Thank you. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 40. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on one amendment under the sub-programme. Awards and social rights in the field of culture. The amendment proposes a parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy. I'm opening a debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 41. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the two amendments under the Cultural Investment Sub-programme. The first amendment proposes a parliamentary club of Social Democrats, and the second amendment also proposes the same proposal. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Mrs. Majda Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u585	Thank you. I would like to obtain you for support of the first amendment, which envisions 203 million for the construction of puppet theatre in Maribor. The puppet theatre in Maribor was a priority investment envisaged in the popularly named Cultural Tolar Act at the first stage and also in the second cultural tolar. The low implementation of the programme under these two laws is related to the need to provide funds in each budget and the opportunity is offered to provide funds for the construction of the puppet theatre in Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u586	Thank you. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 37. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment or amendment under the order number of two of the same candidates, the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Mrs. Majda Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u587	Thank you. The 70 million-dollar amendment is intended if it receives support, building a library in Celje. Given that a similar amendment has been tabled on the working body at the same level, I expect the current applicant to support this amendment and that the construction of the library will be possible in Celje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u588	Thank you. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 38. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the area of the budgetary user, the District Court in Ljubljana, namely the sub-programme, the Administration of District Courts, where we have an amendment, the proposed parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy. I'm opening a debate. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 45. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user area, Maribor District Court, subprogramme, District Court Administration. We have an amendment to the proposed Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 44. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user area, the Administrative Unit of the Pesnica, the sub-programme Administration of Administrative Units and one amendment of the drafter of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 40. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 40.]] We have completed the proposed amendments to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget as a whole. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 14. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that a specific part of the 2006 supplementary budget has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the plan for the development programmes of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants a word anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for the development programmes of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 15. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have completed our decision-making on individual parts of the state budget's complementary proposal. I ask the representative of the Government and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, [[...]] [[Is there any comment on management?]] whether the State budget proposal for revenue and expenditure on the basis of the amendments adopted is harmonised or not. [[...]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u589	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In view of the amendments that have been adopted, we find that there is no consistency. The government will prepare a harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-09-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u590	Thank you. On the basis of the position presented by the Minister of Finance, I find that the draft state budget is not harmonised. The government should prepare amendments by Monday to harmonise changes to the state budget. A mother's working body will also be identified until the amendments of the government. At the time of the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, I ask Members and Members, if they can occupy their seats, we have not yet concluded our meeting of the National Assembly. A mother's working body will also be identified until the amendments of the government. You will be informed of the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy later. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the session, which we're going to continue, and I hope we'll end on Monday. Good-bye and good luck!
