ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished President and members of the government, distinguished guests! I begin the 6th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Mr Jožef Školč, Mr Matjaž Švagan and Mrs Tsveta Zalokar Orazem. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, ministers of the Government and other representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As guests, European Commissioner Dr Janez Potočnik, Members of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament and the distinguished diplomatic assembly are also invited to the meeting. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, with a summary list. In January of this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia forwarded to the National Assembly a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union. Since the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 169 provide that the ratification of an international treaty shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions applicable to the urgency procedure and that amendments to the text of an international treaty cannot be tabled in the ratification procedure, the following Rules of Procedure should also address this ratification at a regular January meeting, with only 5 minutes available for the presentation of views, in accordance with Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure. Since the document is of particular importance, the College of the President of the National Assembly unanimously decided to give special attention in this case to the derogation from the Rules of Procedure and the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty. It was thus concluded that the consideration of this ratification should be held at a special, extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and that each group of Members, in addition to the presentation of the positions, would also be given the opportunity to discuss, at a total time of 10 minutes plus as many minutes as the group of Members is considered. In accordance with the conclusion of the College, the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly on the content and meaning of the Constitution of the Treaty also organised a consultation to which, in addition to Members and Members, Government representatives and the legal and legislative services, it also invited the professional public. Otherwise, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Union Affairs. I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, to further explain the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u2	Mr President of the National Assembly, Excellency, the High Council. It took centuries before Europe could declare itself on the cultural, religious and humanistic heritage enshrined in the preamble to the Constitutional Treaty, which today will be decided by this High Assembly. Europe is a mosaic of cultures that began in the Middle Ages and lasted from the 5th to 14th centuries. The first period, the first five centuries, was the period of incubation and the second five centuries marked a very clear period of growth. In the 16th century, under the influence of enlightenment, the development of natural sciences and discoveries is brought to the fore by European countries, which is also expanding to all other continents. However, the French Revolution is increasingly followed by a national idea and a national battle. World War I will end Europe's world domination and pave the way for new totelitarism. After the fight in II. World War II and after a period of political division into two ideological, economic and civilisation cultural worlds, which bring part of Europe to a standstill, the thought begins to be strengthened after the great historical unification of the continent. The opportunity for its realization will come with the symbolic fall of the Berlin Wall and the birth of new democracies in Central and Eastern Europe. Today, Europe wants to continue its path where, after its historic summit, it wants to become a civil and economic power. The European Union is today the largest-known, agreed-upon group of countries in history that wants to further strengthen voluntary integration in a modern context with the adoption of a constitutional treaty. This is the great and important preparation of this part of the world for the future of a planet on which natural resources are limited, on which humans are interdependent. The EU Constitutional Treaty is the result of a long process of European integration, which has its last formal beginnings in 1950. On 9 May this year, French Foreign Minister Robert Schumann proposed that six countries, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg cancel their independent exercise of sovereignty over coal and steel production and that all their weapons potentials be subject to joint authority. With a view to ensuring lasting peace in Europe, a process of gradual deepening and expanding European integration was then under way. From 1950 onward, a large body of legal rules was formed. The Treaties on which the European Union is founded, including the rich case law of the European Court of Justice, have gradually identified an essential part of the classical constitutional material: objectives, tasks, principles, competences of the EU institution and legal instruments, as well as the rights and freedoms of individuals, dispute resolution, etc. Although the Treaty of Constitution with Europe has brought some innovations, it has largely taken over constitutional material that has gradually evolved in the more than 50 years of the European integration process and is now in force. It is worth noting that the Constitutional Treaty does not establish a new European Union. As it enters into force, the European Union will remain a community of countries and not a state community. The objective of the Constitutional Treaty is in particular to consolidate the existing situation in the development of European integration processes and at the same time to offer an appropriate legal framework for further development. The European Union preserves the nature of a completely voluntary link. Finally, the Constitutional Treaty provides even for the possibility of voluntary withdrawal. The Constitutional Treaty also has great symbolic value. It is a legal reflection of the political integration of Europe. The Constitutional Treaty is not an accession treaty where the new would join the old members. It is a treaty in which the new and also old members of the European Union have agreed together and in an equal manner, while the accession treaty mainly regulates the way and conditions for the entry into the community of the former members, the Constitutional Treaty reflects the common concepts of political regulation of the continent, the common institutions and the distribution of powers between the national and European levels. The Constitutional Treaty is also a cultural civilisational acquisition. The European integration processes, which have so far been predominantly economically coloured, have gained new dimensions through the Constitutional Treaty. The Constitutional Charter is based on the equality of Member States, peoples and citizens and reflects the link between the European continent and the single community, based on common values and common interests. The common denominator is democracy, the rule of law, freedom, respect, acceptance of diversity and protection of fundamental rights. The European acquis thus lays down goods not only in economic terms but also in political and cultural-historic terms. With regard to substantive solutions, the Constitutional Treaty represents a compromise for all at the Intergovernmental Conference of the Participating States. At the conclusion of the negotiations with its contents, none of the participating countries was entirely satisfied, while there was no country that was dissatisfied with the whole. The content is a good compromise and otherwise such an important agreement cannot be concluded. We can also see the Constitutional Treaty as a success of the enlargement of the European Union or as a result a partial result of this process. While many attempts to adopt the European Constitutional Charter have failed in the past, this has been done precisely under the conditions of the enlarged European Union or at the time of enlargement. Despite the fear that the 25-member European Union will be paralyzed and that the search for consensus solutions will be difficult, this has not happened. With the entry into force of the Constitutional Treaty, the enlarged European Union will have a new regulatory framework, one treaty instead of the current opaque set of basic treaties, in which even lawyers sometimes find it difficult to find themselves. Slovenia is satisfied with the compromise reached and the final solutions reached. In view of some rather unfavourable proposals at the time of the intergovernmental conference, a balanced result was finally achieved, before raising the minimum threshold for European Members to a Member State from 4 to 6. The Commission will be composed in principle: one country, one Commissioner, with full voting rights at least until 2014. It will then either be reduced to a number of 2/3 Member States, or a different unanimous decision will be taken by the European Council on the basis of experience with the Commission. In the event of a reduction in the number of Commissioners under the number of Member States, a completely equal rotation will apply to the posts of the Commission. The definition of qualified majority, 55% of the countries and 65% of the population adopted, Slovenia provides a better position in decision-making in the Council than the Treaty in force in Nice and as the draft Treaty of Constitution for Europe originally established by the Convention. Decisions in the field of tax law will be taken unanimously. The Constitutional Treaty strengthens the role of national parliaments in the field of political monitoring of compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. It also strengthens the role of the European Parliament as it provides for a standard legislative procedure in which the European Parliament co-decisions with the Council. This is a step towards improving the EU's democracy or reducing the so-called democratic deficit. The Constitutional Treaty provides for a legally binding nature of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union, making it directly applicable before the European Court of Justice. With the entry into force of the Constitutional Treaty, the Union would reaffirm its commitment to fundamental rights as the core values of a European democratic society. The Constitutional Treaty also provides for the establishment of an external minister of the EU to help the Union perform more uniformly with respect to third countries, while improving the Union's ability to face global challenges. The Constitutional Treaty also brings some new developments, which are particularly welcome for smaller members of the Union, such as our country. The three countries that will be at the head of the Union during the half-second year will be able to participate more, and organisational and substantive tasks will be possible to divide and pool human resources potentials. The establishment of a European External Action Service is envisaged, which could simply be called European diplomacy. This will enable smaller members, especially their citizens, to have adequate representation in those countries where they do not have diplomatic consular representations. In view of the gains brought by the Constitutional Treaty, it can be concluded that its implementation would mean a great deal, you could say, a key shift towards a more transparent, efficient and more democratic Europe that would be closer to its citizens. It would also allow for greater visibility and effectiveness of the Union at the global stage. Your Honor! The Constitutional Treaty is of utmost importance to Slovenia. It was the first time that, as equal partners in the society of the great European peoples, we have created the image of the future of Europe. Let us remember the major international conferences that have in the past decided on the political regulation of Europe. The Vienna Congress in the years 1814 and 1815 and the Paris Peace Conference in the aftermath of both world wars apply. The Slovenians did not then act as an independent independent entity with their own territorial integrity. We were part of this country or that country and played a completely subordinate role. When the political image of the continent was formed and borders were drawn across our territory, our agreement usually did not ask. That's not the case with the Constitutional Treaty. Although we have not yet been members of the EU, we have cooperated on an equal footing in its design, first within the framework of the Convention on the Future of Europe and then at the intergovernmental conference. Finally, the agreement of the Members of the Slovenian National Assembly for the implementation of the Constitutional Treaty is just as necessary as the consent of Parliament of any other Member of the European Union. We Slovenians have entered the history of Europe in the true sense of the word in the Middle Ages, and after a short period of independence we have been part of this history as a nation in the wider multinational state creations, but we have always been understood as national autonomy, we have always felt ethically united and individual, even though we have been in a social, political and culturally subordinate position, at least in view of the leading nations of the common countries in which we lived. We have often understood ourselves as a tragic subject of the European political and national legal map. After great hopes since the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, we Slovenians have remained dismembered into the native part of the nations in Yugoslavia and minorities in Italy, Austria and Hungary. Part of a living national body has remained violently torn away from the whole by an international dictatorship. At the same time, however, we have always understood ourselves as part of the spiritual, cultural and artistic historical experience of Western European civilisation flows, as part of the European whole, where our minorities have been divided, so that there has been a historical duality between spiritual belonging and national and national reality, which has shaped the special cultural character of the Slovenian nation to date. In a cultural sense, we were part of the imaginative and stylistic flows of the continent. In Slovenia, all our authors from Trubar continued to create in Europe. We are in music from Gallus a part of European modernity. In the painting industry, church painting was long ago and with the impressionists and other painters we later entered the first kind of major flows of European art culture. We were also contemporarys with the church and with secular architecture, we only remember Jožet Plečnik. Even with respectable university figures who have long operated in European centres, such as Miklosič, some are still operating today. Only in the past and today, according to our number in the world of established Slovenian scientists, writers, musicians, painters, doctors, athletes and humanists can we be completely without national complexes. It is particularly important for us and our country that the preamble to the Constitution for Europe in its first line writes the word "culture" and reads: Taking inspiration from the cultural, religious and humanistic heritage of Europe, from which the universal values of the inviolability and inviolability of human rights, freedom and democracy, equality and the rule of law have developed. This preamble is written in a way that is particularly consistent with our traditional understanding of history, which comes from spiritual and cultural heritage and not from force. This preamble contains values that have always been our refuge in until recently unforgiving history for us. Therefore, with great confidence, we can involve ourselves in the great challenge of a new Europe, as the European Union will after the entry into force of constitutional treaties, because we can believe that it is finally a great multinational state body, which will keep us in a place where we have always seen ourselves. Finally, due to a completely different understanding of the communities of countries and their mutual borders, Slovenia, which we have previously called the United Slovenia, will also be united. The Slovenian minorities, which were formerly stately separated from us, have become much closer to their queen and will be able to live together in a single Slovenian cultural space. Your Honor! The first Member States of the European Union ratified the Constitutional Treaty as early as last year. It has recently been ratified by the European Parliament. Public research conducted in Slovenia has shown that Slovenian citizens express their fondness for the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union. I assess that they express their trust in the constitutional document, which was prepared by both the Slovenian Government and the National Assembly. In the framework of the Forum on the Future of Europe, which worked from April 2002 to December 2003, civil society and the public at large also discussed it publicly. When the previous Slovenian government decided to sign the Constitutional Treaty, it also assessed that the debate on it was sufficient and quality and that the negotiated text was a good result for Slovenia. I am sure that some have not changed this opinion overnight, especially because we cannot change the text of the treaty anymore. The current government has sent a contract signed by the previous government to the National Assembly on the basis of an assessment that the debate on it has been qualitative and sufficient. Informing citizens of the essential parts of the Treaty and of the functioning of the European Union and the institutions, in particular the rights of citizens, is, of course, a permanent task, until and after the entry into force of this Treaty. The biggest problem is not that citizens are too familiar with individual documents of the European Union, but it is in a modest knowledge of its action at all, its objectives, institutions and competences. Other members of the European Union face the same problem. The December European Council therefore ordered the Commission to prepare by the end of June this year a new communication strategy to inform the European public about European Union matters. He mentioned the Constitutional Treaty only as a communication opportunity. In Slovenia, I believe that an appropriate communication opportunity for better information to the public, not only about the Constitutional Treaty, but in general about European matters, is a preparation for the European Union Presidency in the first half of 2008. We are members of this link, this is the framework for our action and it is right that citizens know well who in the European Union is something, when, how and why they work and decide, and in particular what our European rights and responsibilities are. I have deliberately used the word of responsibility, because the European Union has the opportunity to succeed if we are also aware of our shared European responsibilities, if we accept the European Union as something that is indeed ours, and if we act like it; if we seek and propose solutions that will be of mutual benefit; if we do not divide ourselves into net payers and net recipients after the achievement of the basic cohesion level, we will contribute together to greater overall growth, which is also the only real basis for greater prosperity within the European Union. The community in which everyone strives to get as much out of it as possible and at the same time contributes as little as possible, and this becomes a basic motive for action, is condemned in advance to failure. The European Union was not based on selfishness but on ideals and values, and only on this basis can it survive and evolve. The Constitutional Treaty is the continuation of this path. Continue the idea to the father of modern Europe Schumann, Adenauer, Monet, De Gasper and others who had the vision and courage to start in ruins II. World war, and despite the threatening threat of totalitarian communism, to build a new link that is today the largest such successful project in history. For each community, clear rules of the game are also important in addition to values, especially in this context this is important for smaller Member States. That is why the implementation of the Constitutional Treaty, which brings clearer rules of the game, is an extremely important step for Slovenia. The referendum result in spring 2003 when we decided to join the European Union in Slovenia showed the unequivocal wish of Slovenian citizens to join Slovenia in the integration processes in Europe. We voted at a time when the outline of the Constitutional Treaty was known, so I believe that Slovenia must express its constitutional treaties unequivocally. The Government proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of a law on the ratification of the Treaty of Constitution for Europe, together with a final document. By doing so, Slovenia will bring the Constitutional Charter one step closer to its implementation and fulfil its important part of its responsibility for the common European future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, and I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Joseph Jerovšk, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Prime Minister, ministers, the European Commissioner, Slovenian Members in the European Parliament, the distinguished diplomatic assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and other guests. The ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe is one of the most important ratifications considered by the National Assembly during Slovenia's independent period. Almost one year ago, on 28 January 2004, the National Assembly ratified Slovenia's Treaty of Accession to the European Union and thus realized the wishes and efforts of Slovenian citizens on the future of Slovenia within European integration. Ratification of the Constitutional Treaty constitutes a further step on this path, as it represents an important institutional overhaul of the enlargement of the Union, which will soon involve more than 25 Member States. At its first regular meeting, held on 19 January 2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Foreign Policy addressed the proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe with a final document. The Committee met with the European Union Affairs Committee as an interested working body. In the introduction, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, presented the progress of the adoption of the Treaty of Constitution for Europe, which was signed on 29 October 2004 following the successful conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference in June 2004. Following the completion of the ratification procedures in the Member States, which are expected to be completed by 1 November 2006, this Treaty will replace the current EU core treaties. He presented the structure and content of the contract, which consists of four parts with the same legal status. The first part is of a constitutional nature and identifies the Union's core objectives and values, the institutional building and legislative procedures. The second part represents the Union Charter of Fundamental Rights, the separation of the Charter into a Treaty constitutes, as explained by the Minister, an important milestone, as the provisions of the Charter have become legally binding. The third part contains provisions on common Union policies. However, the fourth contains general and final provisions. The Protocol is also an integral part of the Treaty, which in most cases transposes the content of the Protocols as part of the existing primary legislation and some also contain new or amended provisions and a final act. In his presentation, Minister Rupel highlighted the key institutional solutions offered by the Treaty and, in the view of the presentation, the importance of the integrity of the Treaty was stressed. With its implementation, the European Union will be governed by a single legal act, which is the same as the entire Treaty of Fundamentals of the International Treaty. The final text of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe is in line with the views expressed by the Republic of Slovenia during the international conference. The Treaty of Constitution for Europe brings important gains, provides for a simpler legal basis, provides for a simpler and more effective institutional framework for the European Union and provides for the establishment of an external minister of the European Union, which will undoubtedly contribute to a more unified Union approach to third countries and will improve the Union's capacity to face global challenges. The president of the Committee on Foreign Policy further stressed that Slovenia has a political and practical interest in ratifying the Treaty in a timely manner. The Treaty represents the continuation of the work of the founders of the European idea and at the same time means a successful continuation of the close cooperation of countries whose fundamental objective was to establish an instrument in Europe that would ensure peace and prevent the recurrence of the terrible experience of World War II. At the turning point in the history of European integration, when the European Union has adopted ten new Member States, the adoption of the European Constitution proves that agreement can be reached on the Union's core objectives. This also requires updating the way Member States cooperate in a way that will make the European Union more efficient and competitive in the global economic area. Legally speaking, the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe is an international treaty concluded by 25 sovereign European countries, which regulate the way sovereign rights transferred to supranational rights are exercised. The Constitutional Treaty is the result of part of the Convention on the Future of Europe, and the National Assembly has also participated through its representatives in the drafting of the Convention, although we were not yet legally members of the European Union. In addition to the participation of representatives of the National Assembly at the Convention, the members of the National Assembly actively participated in the amendments and additions to the draft European Constitution, which took place in the framework of an intergovernmental conference under the Italian and later the Irish Presidency of the European Union. The Committee on Foreign Policy met together at nine meetings, and at its 36th extraordinary meeting on 9 December 2003, at the adoption of the European Constitution, the State Assembly also decided at the plenary meeting and took note of the activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the intergovernmental conference and the government, proposing that, in the final stage of the intergovernmental conference, you seek to elect the adopted and endorsed views and support the text of the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, which will be the result of the agreement of the EU Member States and accessions. The Committee monitored the progress of developments until 18 June 2004, when representatives of countries and governments adopted the harmonised text of the Constitutional Treaty. Here I would like to thank all Members of this and previous call, representatives of the State Assembly in the Convention for the Future of Europe, Lojzet Peterlet, who was appointed as the representative of the national parliaments of the candidate countries in the Presidency of the Convention, Jelk Kacin, Slavko Gabru, Mihi Brejc, Ferry Horvat and Danica Simšič. I also have to thank the experts of the National Assembly who have all participated in the drafting and consideration of the text of the Constitutional Treaty. In conclusion, the President stressed that the final text is a good compromise that takes into account the interests of both large and small EU Member States and provides the basis for the functioning of the European Union in the planned enlarged composition of more than 25 Member States. In the debate that followed, the members of both committees expressed their support for the proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. They stressed that the Treaty was a compromise, but it was totally acceptable for Slovenia and the adoption of the Treaty was important. They highlighted the particular importance given by the Member States of the European Union to human rights by the inclusion of the Union Charter of Fundamental Rights as the second part of the Treaty, which thus acquired a higher constitutional status. The considerations expressed by some members of the two committees did not merely refer to support for ratification as contracts, but rather highlighted the time component and the belief that the possibility of discussing the content and meaning of the treaty with rapid ratification would be concluded. The views were expressed that the placement of this item on the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly meant the closure of the debate on the text of the Treaty and the regret that a thorough discussion had not been held on the contract with representatives of the public and civil society. The general membership of citizens in the Treaty should not be a questionable one, but rather an understanding of its mechanisms. On the contrary, some members expressed their expectation that the ratification will give the public concerned an opportunity to discuss the Constitutional Treaty for Europe and that the debate and information itself will only begin now. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, explained that it is the intention of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue the debate on the Constitutional Treaty, which has been taking place since the beginning of the part of the Convention on the Future of Europe. In the future, public information will also be linked to the perspective of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union. The Government is aware, as the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dr Bozo Cerar, said, of the need to inform the public of the principles and content, as ratification alone will not end but will only begin. Slovenia wants to set an example for the other EU Member States by means of rapid ratification and to confirm that the Constitutional Treaty is important for Europe as well as a document in preparation for the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union. With regard to certain language and other contract errors, which have also been highlighted by members of the Committee, the Head of the Sector for International Law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Bole, explained that, unfortunately, such errors are not possible in such a large document and, in order to resolve this issue, it contains a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty in the Constitution for Europe Article 3 which allows for corrections and correction of errors. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, had no comments. After the discussion, the Committee on Foreign Policy unanimously adopted all the articles of the draft law. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be dealt with in the proposed text and adopted. At the time of its consideration of this item, the Committee adopted an additional decision: the Committee on Foreign Policy calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to ratify the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, the Final Act, in the National Assembly, to inform the National Assembly of the framework programme for information activities of the Slovenian public. In the meantime, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has provided the National Assembly with information on the activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to inform the Slovenian public about the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, which you have also received from all Members. Finally, I would like to add that the members of the Committee at their meeting on 28 January also took note of the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the draft law on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, the Final Charter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee. I give the floor to the President of the EU Affairs Committee, Mr Anton Kokal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, Presidents, Commissioners, Members of the European Parliament, the diplomatic assembly and other distinguished guests! The EU Affairs Committee, as an interested working body at its 2nd regular session on 19 January, together with the parent working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy, addressed the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, with the Final Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. In its opening remarks, the Minister for Foreign Affairs presented to the Committee the timing of the procedures for the adoption of the contract, which we know was signed on 29 October 2004 and presented its structure. In doing so, he highlighted some of the most important aspects or provisions of the said Treaty. We are ahead of us as a result of the multi-annual efforts of politicians and experts from all the current EU Member States. The competent working bodies of the National Assembly have also played an important role in its creation and subsequent confirmations of government negotiating venues at the intergovernmental conference. The EU Affairs Committee has been actively involved in the drafting of its content since the beginning of the Convention on the Future of Europe, then as the European Affairs Commission chaired by Lois Peterle. The Commission has not only reviewed the work of the Convention on a regular basis and its experts have assisted the members of the Convention in its work, but its President, Peterle, has been invited to the Bureau of the Convention and has represented all the candidate countries for accession to the EU there. In the ensuing debate, the members of the Committee actively participated and expressed their support for the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty. They pointed out that the contract was not an ideal document, but was extremely important for Slovenia. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, which forms the second part of the Constitutional Treaty, has gained a higher constitutional status by expressing its commitment and special importance to human rights by the EU Member States. Some members also expressed the expectation that through ratification, the public concerned would be given an opportunity to discuss the Treaty in a broader way and that opinions were also present, namely that the inclusion of this item on the agenda of the plenary session of the National Assembly meant closing the debate on the text of the Treaty and regretting that a thorough discussion had not been held on this subject with civil society. The applicant explained that it was aware of the need to inform the public of the content of the contract, since the ratification itself would not end public awareness. Slovenia, in particular, wishes to set an example with rapid ratification to the other Member States of the European Union and to confirm that the Treaty is also an important document in preparation for the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. After the discussion was concluded, the Committee, as an interested working body, unanimously adopted the decision not to comment on the proposed law and to propose to the National Assembly that the draft law be dealt with in the text before it and adopted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Bones. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u8	Thank you, President. Presidency of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, government representatives, distinguished guests! On 29 October, representatives of 25 countries signed a constitutional treaty for the European Union in Rome. To be effective, it must be ratified by 25 countries. It's November 1, 2006, and it's been bad for two years. 10 countries have already announced a referendum [[Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom]] . In the Slovenian National Party, we were first, first on the European Affairs Committee, which we said too quickly, the speed is killing. Why don't we wait for the referendums? Why not listen to and hear the opinions of the other 24 Member States of the European Union? Why not take note of the essential contents of the Treaty on European Constitution? Why not get consent from all government, non-governmental organisations, civil society, economic and other entities, all Slovenes and Slovenes? Why not? We asked ourselves, "What if the referendum in any of the countries that predicted it fails?" Will further discussions after 2006 in the European Council help? Would it not be better if we now discuss this and have a final decision? What if one of the NGOs, after you are likely to confirm the bill today, requires an ex-legislative referendum? Are we aware of the shame of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, if that happens? And the essence of the communication of the Slovenian National Party is: Slovenians and Slovenians unfortunately do not know that we are transferring all our sovereignty to Europe, in the field of foreign and security policy, in certain areas of justice and internal affairs; they do not know this. Slovenians and Slovenians do not know that the Union has exclusive powers in the field of customs, laying down rules on competition for internal action, including in the Slovenian market, in the area of monetary policy of the Member States with the euro. Slovenians and Slovenians do not know that we are transferring part of our sovereignty to Europe in the fields of social, economic and territorial policy, agriculture, the environment, consumer protection, transport, the trans-European energy network, the areas of freedom, security and justice, and even the areas of health. They don't know. No, no, no. Public research, whoever ordered it, shows that. Slovenians and Slovenians know almost nothing about the EU Treaty. The authorities claim, both of them, that there was a lot of activity, that we talked a lot about getting to know each other. Public research shows that this is not the case. It's not. The largest legal experts in the country of the Republic of Slovenia, I asked such a representative whether the Slovenian Constitution was in line with the Treaty of Constitution for Europe or not. He couldn't answer me. The largest legal experts do not know whether the Slovenian Constitution is in line with the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. The Slovenian national party respects this constitution, the Constitution of the State of the Republic of Slovenia and does not want anyone to ever read and anyone from the Slovenian National Party to violate the Constitution with respect for the Slovenian Constitution with the European Union. I said it loud and clear. But if it is already that we are in a hurry and that the Slovenians will again be the most "good girls", in quotations, as one of many wrote to us, and we will be the third in a row, for Hungary, and even the media, which are so smart, do not know if the other is who signed it, whether it is Latvia or Lithuania. We will tell Hungary and Lithuania that we will now be the third to sign. So in the Slovenian National Party, we asked ourselves honestly and frankly, colleagues and colleagues, what we have out of this is what we have. Answer me! Will we therefore be given the seat of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the EU? We're candidates. We, Polacks, Hungarians, Malta. Shall we? We already know that we will not, because Poland and Hungary stretch, although Slovenia has the longest border between Europe and the rest of the world. We won't get it! Will we have a smooth path for the introduction of the euro, which is very important in 2007? We won't! There's no guarantee. Will we have the advantage of establishing a complete Schengen border? No, we don't have it, no one guarantees it. Will Slovenians choose the net recipient status for the next financial perspective 2007/2013 for the fourth time? Yes, today. According to the latest Eurostat, we have a net gross social product within the European Union of 74 wholes and something else, and 2007 will be 75 wholes and something else and we will not be net recipients, but as net donors, even though we are a young and promising country that needs to encourage Europe. We won't get it. It's clear today. What Slovenia will gain from being a good one and the first to ratify this treaty. Slovenians will have the right, the sixth question, to decide for themselves how to design regions at NGC2 level. We haven't had this opportunity until today, and we don't talk about it today, and they don't have it today. In the Slovenian National Party, we think, we are obedient, we guard, we work quickly, without question, we give signals, we give messages to Europe, "we are willing". Have you seen any contract where two parties talk about giving one and the other just getting one? I don't know her. If you do, fine. There's no such deal. Here are the facts. Slovenians and Slovenians should know that. Do we have the free movement of labour for so many unemployed? No, no, no. Germany has it, Poland has it, Slovaks can come to Slovenia and Slovenians cannot go to Germany to work. Is that right, or is that fair? And we will, of course we will. We'll respect the contract, we'll sign it, we'll sign it, we'll sign it, we'll sign it, we'll sign it. Well done! We'll give you a signal. Last but not least, we have the Presidency of the European Union ahead of us. What's gonna happen? We'll do it today, you'll ratify, one of the countries won't. The one with the referendum. What's gonna happen? We'll be alone again. Instead of giving for leadership - because we have so much honour to have to respect the decision - instead of giving 60 million euros together with the other two countries, we will give 100 or 120 million euros to be stand alone in a threesome. But we don't care, we don't care. We're always in. What do we get for it? Honestly and honestly, I'm sorry: what do we get for this? Colleagues and colleagues, even in the National Assembly, we first discuss the content of laws. About the first, second, third reading, then we accept it. Today, we are accepting a contract to discuss this treaty. It's a strange world. The Slovenian national party will not support the draft law on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, by means of a final act, because of such a way, such speed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr Franz Žnidaršič has the floor, which will speak on behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u10	Honourable President, Prime Minister, Ministers, Commissioner, Honourable Diplomatic Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! The DeSUS Group will support the law on the ratification of the Treaty on European Constitution without reservation because its content is consistent with the views expressed by the Republic of Slovenia at the time of its creation both at the level of the intergovernmental conference and in the national assembly. We are convinced that it represents the ratification of this Treaty by means of a final charter of the realization of all those objectives that we have decided to pursue when we decided to leave the former common country, where there was not enough room for the realization of all human rights, freedoms, progress and democracy. The Treaty on European Constitution, however, provides us with at least its provisions, does not undermine the integrity of the rights set out in our Constitution, but sets out common responses to the globalisation of the world, which requires a combination of responses to new challenges, as well as a combination of obstacles and problems that arise with them. We are living in the European Union in different nationalities for the benefit of all and in cooperation to combine knowledge of social progress without suffering the identity of the culture, the language of the members. This Treaty sets out the principles and framework for peaceful co-existence, communication in the search for the best solutions for a future common better and peaceful life. In doing so, it is not possible to avoid the fact that, by incorporating into the EU and ratifying this Treaty, the Republic of Slovenia is transferring part of its sovereign rights to the joint bodies of this community, but in this document, the safeguards allowing control of the functioning of the European institutions, as well as intervention, where the central authority would attempt to go beyond the framework of its operation by means of this document. The Treaty on the European Constitution is not really something completely new, but it is a structured collection of documents already in place and based on long-term negotiations on new ones. The first part identifies the fundamentals and values, the institutional building and the legislative procedures. Within this are the most important values, such as freedom, peace, security, justice, solidarity, respect for the diversity of cultures and languages, cooperation, equality, the pursuit of prosperity, development and preservation of the environment, as well as the fight against all discrimination. The second part includes the European Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which has thus acquired a higher, constitutional status, which constitutes the European version of the Declaration of Human Rights, which in this sense binds all parties. This means, of course, that these rights, guaranteed by our Constitution to the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, are also guaranteed in all other EU countries. Here our new community is at the forefront of human protection, its dignity, solidarity, freedoms, equal judicial protection, citizens' rights, especially the rights of children, the elderly and the inclusion of persons with disabilities. From the point of view and nature of our party, the Group wishes to highlight what has exceeded the provisions of our Constitution in this Treaty, of course in a positive sense. This is an area related to the rights of the elderly or of the elderly. Knowledge of the rapid rise in the number of older people and the related problems and needs has not matured in recent years, so Article 85 of the European Constitution of the Constitutional Treaty explicitly states that it recognises and respects the right of older people to live alone and to participate in social and cultural life. This article, the provision on the right to social security covered by Article 50 of our Constitution, extends by establishing the status of the elderly as an important member of the community, as it also recognises, in addition to security, the active participation of older people in the life of society, since age in itself must not in itself be a reason to push on the edge of society into homes, abandonment and loneliness. The nature of the provisions of the second part of the Treaty in the European Constitution wants to tell the world and tell us all that the goal of our common life is respect for man, coexistence and peace. The third part contains provisions on common policies that will help to accelerate the development and successful progress of the whole community by reducing differences and enhancing common security. The fourth part contains transitional and final provisions, among which it is particularly important to refer to the procedure for amending this Treaty. By ratifying the Treaty, we also accept the protocols that are annexed. From the point of view of the National Assembly, the first and second protocols are the most important. The first discusses the role of national parliaments in the European Union and the second discusses the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. Both are in some way eliminating the democratic deficit in the European Union while at the same time allowing national parliaments to take over part of the supervisory function in implementing the agreements in those areas that we have transferred to the European Community. Thus, our Parliament will be able to determine whether, to an agreed extent, the common provisions on the one hand are respected and whether our legislation and conduct on the other are consistent. In determining the policy of the future community, we will also participate in the work bodies of the National Assembly, and in particular in the Committee on European Affairs. The ratification of this Treaty will in fact increase the weight of both the European Parliament and the weight of national parliaments that will oversee the functioning of the national authorities of the European Union. On 18 June last year, representatives of countries adopted a harmonised text of the instrument subject to ratification and signed on 29 October. There is no doubt that the content of the document could be brought closer to people at this time. We therefore believe that this will have to be compensated in the next period. It is interesting, however, that calls for the necessity of public debate and public awareness of this matter have only erupted when the ratification is announced, as if we are talking about things for the first time and as if nothing that is not true has been known about the contents of this treaty so far. Those interested in detail may have received much information from various sources at the time of the negotiations and after they were concluded. We therefore believe that the current state of concern identified by public research is not worrying, and we are convinced that research into the knowledge of the provisions of our Constitution would not be significantly better. In doing so, we would like to point out that there is no time in which we want to bring this constitutional treaty closer to the citizens, one who is determined to become acquainted with it in reality, but the interest is to be in the European community, which has become the very value of it, what citizens and citizens have already expressed in the referendum on entry decisions. Nevertheless, we expect that information from the Slovenian public will take place in the most organised way that will be adapted to the widest range of our citizens. We propose that we provide brochures and other materials to citizens in all comprehensible and as concise a form as possible, for which there will be plenty of time in this and future period. With regard to early ratification reports, we believe that they are not justified. High consensus has been reached for the entry into the European Union, while the content of the document covers our expectations, as our proposals and requirements also bear fruit. For the Republic of Slovenia, it is particularly important that the Treaty be adopted or ratified in all Member States, in particular when the Presidency is envisaged. Therefore, our ratification will also contribute to creating a positive atmosphere, which is necessary in order to succeed in countries where this decision will be taken at the referendums. Since it is not possible to amend the document at this time, the delay in ratification does not change anything. For these reasons, our parliamentary group will support the ratification law, as has already been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mrs Maria Possonec has the floor, which will speak on behalf of the national communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u12	Your Honor! All present and welcome. As a member of Hungarian nationality, I am particularly interested in the way minority rights are defined in the European Constitution. It is already stipulated in the preamble that Europe intends to continue to follow the path of civilization, progress and prosperity for the welfare of all its inhabitants, including the weakest, most neglected ones, so united in its diversity offers the best opportunity to continue the undertaking that will make the European continent a special area of human hope, with due respect for the rights of each individual. It is clear from this that European forces are striving for the rights of an individual, i.e. individual rights of persons belonging to a minority, but I miss collective rights, which the European Constitution does not yet bring. I am pleased that Slovenian MEPs have supported the efforts of Hungarian MEPs to ensure that the rights of nationalities are also enshrined in the European Constitution. The Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe with a Final Charter in its second part contains the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It prohibits any discrimination based on sex, race, skin colour, nationality or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, political or other opinion, nationality, material status, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation. As such, the Union will respect cultural, religious and linguistic diversity. I believe that this is precisely the part that highlights the individual's rights with regard to fundamental freedoms and rights. The third part of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, which sets out the policies and actions of the Union, emphasises among the general provisions that the Union will strive to combat discrimination based on sex, race or nationality, religion or belief and sexual orientation in the identification and implementation of policies and activities. Among the common objectives are cultural, linguistic diversity and the preservation and development of European cultural heritage. The Union will thus respect its rich cultural and linguistic diversity and will ensure the preservation and further development of the European cultural heritage. So instead of croaking weapons, intolerance and threats, let the word, cooperation, mutual respect, respect for diversity and creativity be here. And that is exactly the atmosphere that will be needed and will also be encouraging for the development of nationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u14	Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will, of course, support the Treaty of Constitution for Europe with the Final Charter. Since the beginning, the Slovenian Democratic Party has been the main focus of Slovenia's efforts to join the European Union. At the time of the referendum, despite the opposition statute, it has made a decisive contribution to the right approach, as well as to the work of the Convention and has also proposed a convention on the future of Slovenia for the promotion of the work of the Convention for the Future of Europe, which has given rise to a deep and patient debate on national interests, reconciliation and the future that has taken place with the President of the State, Drnovšk, and has certainly contributed greatly to the democratic awareness of the Slovenian people. Almost exactly a year ago, on 28 January, we ratified Slovenia's entry into full membership of the European Union, which took place on 1 May 2004. This has been achieved after we have demonstrated in 12 years of Slovenian independence to Europe the success of the Slovenian state and a firm readiness to the values and principles on which the peaceful, democratic and successful development of the European Union is based. These are historical dates in the past year that will secretly mark the position of Slovenia and the Slovenians in the society of European nations. We can hope that with the successful completion of the ratification process of the European Constitution in the 25 Member States, today's date will continue to smell of history. Before full membership, however, as a candidate country, we have been invited to the Convention for Europe and have actively cooperated with our representatives in the drafting of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe from the start. With preparations for historical enlargement, it has become clear that the European Union also needs internal redesign and synchronisation. Since it is a constitution that must satisfy all 25 members, it is clear that it represents a compromise, which of course we are aware of in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In a successful united Europe, which defines its objectives and values, principles and obligations in the Constitution for Europe, European peoples and us Slovenians not only address the spirit and feelings of the community and belonging to the values of the free and democratic world, but also the desire for success, and let us be clear, increasingly the pressure of globalisation that forces Europe to improve competitiveness and political power. Such wishes and awareness of the urgency of a functioning Union are expressed in the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. In doing so, we are aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the Constitutional Treaty for Slovenia is more favourable than the Nice Treaty. In the SDS, it is clear to us that an enlarged Europe needs clearly-written objectives, rules, values and principles, as this represents a lasting more Europe for the country of Slovenia. The draft Constitutional Treaty is not necessary for the further development of Europe and has no real alternative. The Slovenian Democratic Party is aware that there are two speeds within Europe: the exclusive rights of individual countries and the elite clubs of countries; therefore, it looks with concern at those who are playing stallion games, which is playing with the institutional image of Europe and with the ability of small countries to equal status. If ratification fails, any further coordination will bring solutions that will be less favourable for small countries. The European Constitutional Treaty must also be effective with further enlargements, as we would like to see its De Gaul call made in the early 1960s by Europe from the Atlantic to the Urals. This is at a time when Europe was still blocked and followed by a spirit of cold war and totalitarianism. In a substantive sense, the Constitutional Treaty provides a significant simplification of the legal basis on which the European Union is founded. The European Constitution will put an end to the division into three pillars, which has repeatedly led to confusion over the appropriate procedures for the adoption of EU legal acts, which has had a negative impact on EU citizens themselves. The EU will have a new legal personality, which will solve many of the problems of EU action and, above all, improve the effectiveness and transparency of its operation in the world. With regard to competence, the most important novelty is in particular a much clearer definition of exclusive and allocated powers and a definition of areas where the EU can only act in a coordinated or complementary manner, which will certainly satisfy those who feel that the competences of the Union in the past will be under-defined, which has led to too much erosion of sovereign powers of the national states. For the sake of self-confidence and the preservation of national identity, it is important that Slovenia is an equal official language of the EU. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe in a successful, solid and long future of the EU, but in the light of our historical experience of the two decompositions in which the Slovenians lived, it is not irrelevant that the Constitution explicitly sets out in Article 60 the possibilities of exit. The EU must never become a prisoner of nations for any European country! Ladies and gentlemen! In the past days, it has been possible to detect doubts as to whether it is the right time to ratify the Constitutional Treaty or whether ratification should wait a little longer. Perhaps the Constitutional Treaty itself could be discussed more before ratification. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that it is necessary and possible to do so in time for the entry into force of the Constitutional Treaty. In our belief that Slovenia is among the first countries to ratify the Constitutional Treaty, we are guided by the political and practical interest of the State. The Presidency of the European Council under the new Constitution will be more financially and organisationally favourable for Slovenia than it would have been if the constitution had not been adopted. In order to move to Slovenia, there is a high consensus among political parties that such behaviour is supported by a large majority of the population, and ratification will also encourage other Member States to implement the Constitutional Treaty more quickly. The Slovenian Democratic Party believes in the European idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr Anton Rop has the floor, which will speak on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u16	Dear President, Excellency, representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished High Council and guests! I am confident that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will today ratify the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. I had the honour to sign it, together with the minister of the week, Mr Iv Vajgle, at the end of last year in Rome, in a Chamber where the Treaty of Rome was signed 48 years ago. As early as June last year, we agreed on the latest revisions in the framework of an intergovernmental conference at a two-day meeting in Brussels. At that time, the organised audio conference between the government delegation in Brussels and the Foreign Policy Committee of this National Assembly confirmed Slovenia's final agreement on the latest amendments to the Constitution for Europe. The Slovenians and Slovenians have contributed to the drafting of this joint document, specifically to highlight the Slovenian members of the Convention and the work of the then permanent delegation of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union, today of the Permanent Representation, which have done a very important work. There are several reasons why we will today support the Treaty of Constitution with Europe in the Liberal Democratic Club. For the shortest time. We will undermine it because this European Constitution represents an appropriate institutional agreement with the EU, which was created last May, namely the European Union of 25 countries, the European Union, which is open to new countries, and the European Union of 450 million Europeans and Europeans; the European Union, which can provide more democracy, transparency and, at the same time, efficiency. We will support it because Slovenia and all its citizens and citizens have more opportunities for full implementation, legal certainty, development and prosperity. In 1957, when the Treaty of Rome was signed, all present agreed that it would be necessary to go beyond the dreams shared by Schumann, Monet, Spinelli, and others. At that time, the Treaty was signed by 6 countries and it had been almost half a century before we came to a common constitutional treaty in search of a common future; dreams had become very real. When we talk about the reasons why we think it is right that Slovenia between the first EU countries ratifys the Treaty in the Constitution with Europe and thus contributes to the adoption of this document throughout Europe, it is particularly important to highlight the content that has led to the process of European integration. The Constitutional Treaty symbolizes the desire of European nations to live in peace and to create a continent of peace, progress and solidarity based on common interests and values. Although this process is still unfinished and even the borders of united Europe are only on the rise, we believe that it is solidly drawn and justified. The Treaty on the Constitution for Europe adds to it the institutional framework and the necessary instruments, and for us in Slovenia, in particular, it is an opportunity to devote all our strengths to the future and both at home and in our relations with other nations and our immediate neighbours to burden the historical mortgage and prejudices. In this way, we will make our creativity and equality the most effective. Within the framework of the part of the Convention and the intergovernmental conference, the Member States and the three candidates have voluntarily decided to jointly implement a constitution based on a double and indivisible consensus between citizens and citizens of EU Member States. Let me stress that this objective can only be achieved with a great deal of patience and perseverance and solely on the basis of consensus. There was a need to solve a number of complex problems about the composition and role of the European Commission, the qualified majority, the appropriate representation of small nations in the European Parliament and the minimum threshold. These were the main issues that we have been dealing with in the last year and whose solution must have been for the benefit of all EU Member States, all of its more than 450 million Europeans and Europeans. I estimate that we have managed to strike an appropriate balance between determining the issues that we need to resolve together and those that each Member takes care of on its own. The Constitutional Treaty, which was solemnly signed by the representatives of the countries on 29 October last year in Rome, therefore clearly represents a step forward compared to the existing Treaties of the European Union. In March 2003, at a referendum on Slovenia's membership in the European Union, nearly 90% of Slovenian voters and voters decided that our country's future is in the European Union. With this we have confirmed the correctness of the choice of the political objectives of the integration of the Slovenian state, which were defined a few years ago when the declaration of an independent and independent state was made. The success of hard work in the negotiations and, above all, the commitment to the European idea has been confirmed. This act gave us a mandate to sign, in Athens on 16 April 2003, a treaty on the accession of our country to the European Union ratified by the National Assembly on 28 January 2003 and thus became a full member of the European Union on 1 May 2004. Your Honor! Already in operation in the Union, during accession negotiations, in the Convention for Europe, as well as in the framework of the Intergovernmental Conference on the Treaty on European Union, we have demonstrated that we can apply ourselves equally, we can listen and find a common solution. The ways in which problems have been solved when they have been encountered testify to the fact that this is the only way, and this is a good way. Membership in the European Union is primarily an opportunity and an opportunity for Slovenia; we have learned a lot on the road to Europe so far. Above all, we have learned that membership does not give us anything on our own. Only knowledge, activity, patience and credibility can and can be established within the family of the most developed European countries and nations. Only then will we be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered to us. In the coming weeks and months of 2005 and 2006, in addition to ratifying the Constitution, one of the key European themes will certainly be to negotiate the next financial perspective. In these negotiations, equal enforcement and the search for common solutions will have to continue. It is good that the European Commission's proposal on the next financial perspective is in line with the Slovenian assessment of the challenges facing the European Union. That is how we supported the restructuring of the European budget in support of the Lisbon Strategy, on which the proposal for a strategy for the development of Slovenia, prepared in the past year, is based. The Commission's proposals in the area of cohesion policy are particularly important for Slovenia. It is therefore necessary to continue to apply the possibility that geographical areas that have lost eligibility status, which is above 75% of the European average, because of enlargement itself, this is due to the so-called statistical impact, should have access to more EU funding for structural purposes in the next financial perspective. It is therefore very important that Slovenia strives to agree regional division of Slovenia into two or three groups of regions during the next financial perspective negotiations within the European Union. This would mean that in any case, regardless of the time of conclusion of the negotiations, the largest part of Slovenia, that is, the whole Eastern and Western Slovenia, would become eligible for cohesion funds, as this could enable - and we all know that - further acceleration of economic growth throughout Slovenia and significantly more equitable regional development. It is true that the current statistics of the European Statistical Office show that the whole of Slovenia could remain within the next financial perspective, with the maximum possibility of drawing on funds, but this will only be feasible if the agreement is concluded during the Luxembourg Presidency until the end of June this year. Whether the agreement will be reached by June this year is not yet clear; it is more likely that it will not. In any case, however, it will not be achieved because Slovenia would give up regionalisation and there is no reason at this stage to give it up. On the contrary! If negotiations are indeed to be concluded in the first half of this year, Slovenia will have significantly more opportunities to exercise its interests. In this case, in the case of three regions, at least two more than 14 years would likely be eligible for the maximum amount of funding from the European budget. These are large funds and it is necessary to do everything in order to give Slovenia, like a number of other regions, a political exception that would only confirm the exceptions so far. In the European Union, there are more than 56 regions with fewer than 800,000 inhabitants and more than 25 regions with fewer than 400,000 inhabitants because our smallest region of central Slovenia would have. Now is the time for our interests to be realized. Some of these exceptions have already been reached in the past, such as the basis that we have put the second track project of Divača-Koper into the European TEN supported projects. Respected, Europe offers the best opportunity to create an area of confidence, with due respect for the rights of everyone and with the knowledge of our responsibility for future generations. The fundamental values we share are equality of persons, freedom, respect for reason, and the central role of an individual, the inviolability and inviolability of his rights and respect for law. And for the benefit of all its people, the weakest and most neglected, Europe wants to remain a continent open to culture, knowledge and social progress, to deepen democracy and transparency in public life and to pursue peace, justice and solidarity in the world. Therefore, we cannot close our eyes to the fact that not everyone respects these values. Ensuring human dignity, protecting human rights, respecting and understanding diversity are things that no one in our society can question. The bearing foundation of any modern democratic society is respect for human rights. It is very important that every citizen and citizen be aware of the content of the Constitutional Treaty. It is the duty of all of us, in particular the governments, to enable people to know in detail all the rights and obligations arising from the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. Only in this way will we be able to ensure that people trust in the existence of a common Europe and its values. This is necessary because only such Slovenia, Slovenia, in which citizens know their rights and are aware of their duties and will therefore be able to take advantage of European opportunities, can continue to succeed in a new Europe. This is true for Europe as a whole, so we understand today mainly as a day in which we continue to discuss Europe and start a new circle of information, awareness, communication, so that the new Constitutional Treaty defines Europe even better. The LDS will vote in favour of ratifying the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Rope. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor to speak on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u18	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Excellency, Prime Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The historic opportunity to sign the European Constitution did not occur overnight, nor in the 15 countries, nor in Slovenia. We discussed integration into the EU and decided in the national assembly as well as citizens and citizens in the referendum. Members and Members of the National Assembly have enough ground to be able to vote in favour of the proposed ratification and in confidence that we are working for the good of Slovenia. That is why we will also vote in favour of the adoption of the European Constitution by Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats. The Treaty of Constitution for Europe has been in existence for several years. Especially for two or more years. We also took part in the National Assembly, the government participated, and we also worked through representatives in the Convention for the Future of Europe. A few basic points of view about what are the substantive solutions, which are better or worse, have also been designed on our part. As a country of accession, Slovenia has been enabled to participate in the design of this for the future Europe of the most important document. This is the result of the policy led by Slovenia through independence and after it. With such a policy, we have met the conditions that we could come among the acceding countries, because otherwise we would be in a completely different position in the drafting of the Constitution for Europe. Its design could only be monitored. The Convention, which established the Constitution with a democratic, representative, transparent and effective method, has taken into account the contribution of European citizens all the time. In her work, she confirmed the rationale for a wide range of participants, since after 16 months she was able to show an agreement that followed intensive discussions, also enriched by dialogue with civil society. The Treaty on the Constitution of Europe is therefore recognised as the most democratic document in EU history. Once adopted, we too will take full over the European Constitution into our legal system. The Slovenian and European constitutions, which are harmonised on fundamental issues of democracy, legal and social security and human rights, are both at the same time fundamental to our regulation. Therefore, it would not be right to seek out differences and conflicts between them in particular, but to ensure that the interests of Slovenia, Slovenian citizens and citizens and our position in Europe are taken into account. In particular, it is worth noting that Europe is becoming a Europe of citizens by means of a new constitution more than ever before, that the role of the European Parliament has been strengthened, that the role of citizens and citizens, as well as of the Slovenian Parliament, has also been strengthened through the European Parliament. By adopting our work programme on EU obligations, by involving European parliamentarians in our work, we will also strengthen our position through direct parliamentary cooperation with the European Commission. And then there's two more in the end. I expect that, with our cooperation, the government will also ensure that citizens and citizens are informed, in particular about the rights that this Constitution brings directly to citizens and citizens of Slovenia as future equal citizens and citizens of Europe. And a second time. In order to ensure that the National Assembly also assesses its increased and new obligations and rights, in particular as regards the assessment of whether European legislation does not directly affect the exclusive competence of the State, or therefore respects the principle of subsidiarity in determining the content of European laws. However, for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, for Slovenia as a country, for all its national authorities, a whole new chapter of national and political life begins by ratifying and enforcing the new Constitution. It will depend on our competence and commitment on how and how we will know how to use our new position as equal partners for our and our common benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Aloise Sok has the floor, which will speak on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u20	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished Prime Minister, ministers, distinguished diplomatic assembly, MEPs and Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and other guests! In Slovenia, we have become more attentive to the creation of a European Constitutional Treaty with the beginning of a part of the Convention, although the European Treaty process has been in progress since 1950. The Republic of Slovenia is one of the new members who even had a representative in the Bureau of the Convention, Mr Loize Peterle. The Convention began its work in February 2002 and did a great deal of work in 16 months. The Convention was drawn up in such a way that it represented all the current members of the European Union, ten new members and Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey. The convention was attended by governments, government and opposition members of national parliaments, with the participation of the European Commission, the European Parliament, experts and NGOs. Thus, the Convention was extremely broad and democratic. This achieved a high level of consensus. In other words, a constitutional treaty was created, which is ahead of us today after the intergovernmental conference. It is a comprehensive material with 448 articles, 36 protocols and 50 statements. Today and in these days, through the media, we are trying to argue that the Slovenian public is not sufficiently familiar with the content of the Constitutional Treaty and that it would take more time to get to know the public. While it is possible to agree with this, it is somewhat unusual for those who have been obliged to provide direct information to say so. Otherwise, at the 36th extraordinary meeting, when we were informed of the draft Constitutional Treaty, ready for an intergovernmental conference, the then Prime Minister, for example, said here: "A significant contribution to the broad democratic treatment and the search for consensus in Slovenian society on the challenges of the future European structure was also the establishment of a forum on the future of Europe in Slovenia. This is based on an example of a forum for civil society representatives at European level. At the meeting of the Slovenian Forum, representatives of NGOs of civil society, government and parliament followed discussions under the Convention and thus brought the content of important discussions on the constitutional design of the future Union to the public. It is important that the Slovenian Forum does not cease to operate under the Convention but continues to monitor the work of the intergovernmental conference. The work of the Forum has undoubtedly contributed and contributed to a transparent and democratic public hearing of the process of drafting the first Constitution for Europe. We can therefore say that the draft drafted by the Convention gained legitimacy in the discussions of the Forum in Slovenia as well. Slovenia was able to form an internal political consensus in its core and most important objectives in achieving the European objectives among the most successful candidates. This has made our activities much more effective and for the benefit of our citizens." [[End of quote.]] There is therefore no way to speak, despite public opinion polls that Slovenians are not familiar with the content at least in some parts. Polls show that 60% of Slovenians support the Constitutional Treaty. Therefore, there can be no reason to delay the adoption of this ratification. One year from now, we will be ahead of the same task, which is: to accept or not to accept this constitutional treaty that is before us today. There's nothing we or anyone else can do about it. This is why it is good that Slovenia, which has not faced Euroscepticism, does so as soon as possible and thus affects public opinion in those ten members where they have decided to refer to the referendum and where the outcome of the referendum is unpredictable, in short, uncertain. On the very creation of this constitution in the Republic of Slovenia, we did not even raise big questions. We have always been firmly aware of the real position that we are a small country and that we can only acquire a common European Constitution. For this reason, some institutional and political issues, such as the composition of the Commission and whether this will, in principle, be one vote, were more at stake with us, whether all Commissioners will have the full right to vote. The proposed solution is now to be in force until 2014, and the Commission is to reduce its number of Commissioners by keeping two thirds of the Member States; however, this can still be changed as set out in this Constitutional Treaty. The question of the qualified majority required for decision-making was also raised. An organisation that has 25 members and will have more in the future, of course, has a hard time operating without a majority principle, and this is now somehow resolved by the principle of a double majority. The accepted definition of a qualified majority is 55% of the countries and 65% of the population. Such a decision by Slovenia in decision-making in the world ensures a better position than that of Nice. At the same time, such a decision strengthens the role of national parliaments in the field of political control and control over respect for the principle of subsidiarity. Slovenia can also be satisfied with the rise in the minimum threshold for European Members. Some other major issues, when the reference to Christianity is in the preamble to the Constitution, which has caused much debate in some Member States, and may even mean that no constitutional membership will be adopted, have not been in the Republic of Slovenia, although we have been informed of this and some Members have even signed a petition to mention Christianity in the preamble. Dearly represented, we have before us the final progress in approaching Europe, as regards the institutional regulation of common European matters. This is a European Constitutional Treaty, where several previous European treaties will be brought together together. The way to this constitutional agreement was not easy. Following some failures or less successful attempts, a convention was established following the Nice Conference, which, as has already been said, drafted a constitutional contract for work at an intergovernmental conference. There is no doubt that it is difficult, if not impossible, to get as many initiatives and expectations as 25 different nations have in one document. This is a number of demographic, cultural and religious differences. In such a large community, where democracy is only on the rise, it has been difficult to reach such a great compromise as this Constitutional Treaty. We Slovenians who have lived in some federation know this particularly well. Of course, the smaller ones would like more and the larger ones would want more. The division of powers and the maintenance of the function of national parliaments was one of the fundamental issues of this Constitution. In fact, large countries have a significant impact, as there are relatively more Members in the European Parliament and thus more opportunities to meet important positions. Eurosceptics warn that small countries will slowly lose part of their autonomy and thus their national identity. The question is asked, and time will show who is right. On the other hand, it is a major problem for a small country to remain outside the European Union, as it would face much more difficult problems that globalisation brings with it the integration into the European Union of every country, as small as a large, part of its sovereignty into the common institutions, without losing its own sovereignty. The European Union is a huge economic market, a large administrative and political system, a community of many, cultural entities. If we were to take forward the view that a small country could not compete with the big ones in any way, we would give up our own development and with this better life; we are confident of this in New Slovenia. It is essential, therefore, to know that the European Union is an opportunity that we must take advantage of to achieve our common and individual objectives. We can certainly be pleased that we are able and able to participate in this process of establishing the European Constitution. Slovenia was able to actively engage all the time and all those who wanted to have access to the constitutional process. Research shows that it is a matter of great trust, although the content of citizens really does not yet know enough at this time; but - do Slovenians know enough about our Slovenian Constitution? Of course, the time will be sufficient to take stock of this Treaty by 1.11.2006, and the future will also show whether such a constitutional treaty will be able to live up to the expectations of Europeans and Europeans. It is not enough to write something on paper, much more important how we do it, or everything depends on all of us, on the citizens of all of Europe, and especially on the political representatives and institutions that will do it. Starting from the historic moment of the fall of the Berlin Wall and the related creation of Slovenia, as has already been said, we did not have great questions and dilemmas about a common Europe in Slovenia. With a large majority, we decided for the EU at the referendum, so another referendum on the Constitutional Treaty would be unnecessary or give the same result, and we are confident of that in New Slovenia. Since we do not have major problems ourselves, we are obliged to do something to eliminate skepticism in some other countries, such as England, which wants to maintain its monetary policy, or other countries where Eurosceptics warn against the excessive influence of European institutions. This can only be done by the Slovenians, as Hungary and Lithuania, which are also new members, we accept this constitution among the first. More than the countries that will accept this great compromise, it will be easier to decide the countries that will go to the referendum, but of course, as has already been said, no one can be fully satisfied. Like many others in New Slovenia, we have found it difficult to accept that the preamble to the Constitution does not contain the basis for the true origin of values in Europe. It is difficult to understand that some, or most, do not want Christian and Jewish tradition to be recorded, which means the emergence of common European values. This is all the more difficult because the symbols of the EU, such as the flag and the anthem, are strongly deceived by the presence of religion, and even in the Constitutional Treaty itself, this presence is pronounced despite the non-remembrance of Christianity. It is precisely the values that have been shaped by Christian-ethical principles that are strongly highlighted. We also understand that because of this record, Europe will not be any less Christian and that every generation of Europeans will have to make a special effort to do so. If Europe respects its roots, it will lose its identity and disappear, as has already been the case with many empires in the history of mankind. This Treaty, which was before us today on 12 January, was also endorsed by the European Parliament: 500 Members voted in favour, 138 against and 40 abstained. The Treaty is to enter into force on 1 November 2006, provided that all instruments of ratification are deposited. Today we will do the same in the Slovenian Parliament, and we are confident about this in New Slovenia. This action somehow concludes the idea of justifying a common Europe - today they have been mentioned several times: Schumman, Adenauera, De Gasperi and many other great men and women of Europe. This means continuing the close cooperation of countries whose primary objective is to ensure peace and prosperity and to prevent the recurrence of the terrible experiences of II forever. World War II. Europe must never again experience the tragedy that has been re-examined by Auschwitz in these days after 60 years. Words such as dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, rule of law, respect for human rights, tolerance, solidarity are strongly highlighted in this Treaty. In short, these are definitions that give hope when we enter this community, including us who, in addition to the delusions of fascism and Nazism, have also survived the delusions of communism. For the Slovenians, who are a small nation, it is very important that we also maintain our culture and our language in accordance with this Constitutional Treaty. No one in Europe is opposed to this. Or we will actually do it, but it is primarily up to us. In New Slovenia we will be happy to confirm this ratification. May God live Slovenia in a united Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u22	Your Honor! On 1 May, the European Union crossed the threshold of the greatest expansion in its history. The new enlargement has brought with it new challenges, new in-depths and also a new open question about the role and functioning of individual institutions. At the same time, it must be said that all of the first steps in the creation of integration, the objective of which was, above all, economic cooperation, but so far as the political cooperation of the Member States is becoming increasingly effective, institutional changes have not always followed changes in the development and nature of the Union. The new enlargement has also resulted in the European Union becoming more intensive in dealing with such issues. Slovenia, as a non-member, also participated with its representatives in the work of the Convention on the Future of Europe, which prepared the draft Constitutional Treaty. Members of the National Assembly also participated in amendments and additions to the draft Constitutional Treaty, which took place in the framework of an intergovernmental conference under the Italian and later the Irish Presidency of the European Union. The four parts of the Constitutional Treaty bring a number of innovations in the functioning of the European Union, with its bodies, inter alia, through the institution of the President of the European Council, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is also Vice-President of the European Commission, and in particular a single institutional framework for the functioning of the Union. The inclusion of the Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights is certainly also important, giving it a legally binding form. It is also worth mentioning the commitment of the Union to accede to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, and it must be said that respect for the voice of all Member States is one of the objectives of the Constitutional Treaty, regardless of its size and the number of inhabitants. The Treaty on the Constitution for Europe also contains elements that seek to address the so-called democratic deficit, bring Europe closer to its citizens and ensure greater efficiency in the functioning of institutions, and are also an element of integration and respect for diversity. In order to bring the Union's action closer to its citizens, a citizens' initiative has been introduced, inter alia, allowing at least millions of citizens of the European Union from a larger number of Member States to call on the European Commission to submit proposals on matters which citizens consider a good legal act of the European Union to be adopted. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the ratification will continue to discuss the constitution and inform the public about it. We must not forget, however, that despite the results of recent public opinion polls on the lack of knowledge of the European Constitution by citizens and citizens, our citizens have already demonstrated that they are not indifferent to Slovenia's involvement and active participation in the European Union. Participation in the referendum is certainly proof of that. The Constitutional Treaty will enter into force on 1 November 2006, following the completion of the ratification procedures in the Member States, which are expected to be completed by 1 November 2006, and until then it will be a long time for the public to become even more aware of its contents. With timely ratification throughout the European Union, Slovenia will be able to chair the Union in 2008 within the framework of the three countries, thus facilitating its Presidency burden. The European Parliament, in which representatives of all Member States are represented, has also adopted a resolution on the European Constitutional Treaty by a convincing majority, which, inter alia, stated that the European Constitution reflects four principles on which the Treaty is based: greater transparency of the nature and objectives of the Union, greater efficiency and a strengthened role in the world, greater democratic responsibility and more rights for citizens. The implementation itself will show the advantages and possible weaknesses of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. We are confident, however, that the implementation of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe will take place within the framework of the objectives set at the time of its establishment: to meet the need for a more democratic, more efficient, more transparent and more complex European Union. Therefore, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe with a final charter. The SLS programme, the Slovenian People's Party, also shows that we are committed to Slovenia acting as an active member of the European Union and of the international community, thus contributing to the creation of a common European view on global political issues. Our initiatives and the position on the structures of the European Union will focus on the realization of those interests that concern the broadest population of the country. Slovenia will be a successful member of the link if our membership contributes to improving the situation for as many citizens as possible. Ensuring an equal position in all areas is key. As it is said, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the law on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. To all gathered and also to all those who today follow this event in the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia, a very nice greeting! The decision that is before us today is certainly the most important decision that we will take in the long term. Nevertheless, I would like to draw particular attention to what we are actually deciding today. It is about putting in place a new framework, the legal basis of our community, the European Union in which we are, and thus the legal framework within which our country will operate in the future. We could talk about this today - and some have already expressed such fear - that it can happen to overcome quantity over quality, but let me illustrate it with one simple example. Look, it doesn't have to be like this all the time. Indeed, the Constitution or the Treaty of Constitution for Europe, together with the Final Charter, is much bigger than our Constitution, but, by the time this Treaty is actually established, and also after, and I stress this, of course, it will still be considered that Slovenia is a democratic republic, that Slovenia is a social and legal state and, above all, that it is a country of all citizens and citizens, based on the permanent and inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination, because the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia still and we have always been, we are today and will still be committed to all those who decide here. The advantage of this act is certainly in that they will later be clearer rules of the game. To be able also in certain controversyes, let's say in which of those that take place in Slovenia these days, the provisions of this treaty can in some way be an example, at least an ideal example in finding solutions for ourselves. For if we do not follow this, it may quickly happen that we place our own institution, or ourselves, or our citizens and citizens in a less favourable position than others will have. This is, of course, the advantage of this act, that it is uniform for the whole area and that it will affect the law of the entire Union. Not in the short term, but in the long term, it will lead to a major unification of law in all areas, in my personal opinion, to a reduction in the differences between the individual legal families that exist in the area. I will personally vote in favour, not because someone would specifically order this to me, I don't know, on a party line or because that's what the government recommends, but for a simple reason: because I didn't forget the other night when we met friends from the Slovenian Democratic Party with colleagues from New Slovenia at Prešerno's monument and welcomed the outcome of the rescissical outcome of the referendum on our integration into the European Union and at the same time also in NATO. This plebiscite decision has been taken by more than an absolute majority of all Slovenian voters and voters, and this decision, I am sure, binds us. With no one I have spoken to since then, and I have voted then, I have not had the opportunity to speak and hear his opinion in this direction: you know, but now we should be deciding again about the constitution because it is something else. No, for at that time this constitution was really coming into existence. At that time, it was clear what the basic features of this act were that are ahead of us today. And that is why I am convinced that our moral and political duty, and above all the human-ethical duty, is to allow Slovenia to join all those who will also support and follow its regulation in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr Grimes. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Allow me to say a few thoughts about ratifying the Constitution for Europe. The high support for the EU's accession target gives an argument for ratification in the National Assembly. However, it does not give any argument that we should be free of the right to information that we should recognise to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Because the weight of the law that we are going to decide on today is not contained in the five articles and we could only intervene in these five articles with amendments, but it is hidden in the second article, which, as has been heard today, contains the basic text of the 36 protocols and the two annexes, as well as the conclusion of the 50 statements. It is therefore possible to ask whether the expected effects of early ratification will outweigh what I said earlier. They have weighed that, in fact, the content of the Constitutional Treaty is unknown to the vast majority of almost three-quarters of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Let us now leave aside how many people have had the opportunity to monitor the formation of the text of the Constitution for Europe. The fact is that this would be measurable only when the Slovenian source of the Constitution for Europe was available. This is what we know that the rapporteur was published on 17 January 2005. The question I am asking is, of course, whether it would be possible to continue the agreements that monitored Slovenia's entry into the EU in this process, but it was so that the proposal for the moment of ratification was first a proposal, then an agreement on how ratification should take place. And now allow me to draw attention to something that I would expect to be resolved differently from all the benefits that have already been discussed in the Constitution for Europe. The Charter of Fundamental Rights, in its preamble, states that the Union puts an individual at the centre of its activities by establishing Union citizenship. This is where my problem begins, namely, Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that Slovenia is the country of all its citizens and citizens. Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure also states in paragraph 4 that it is necessary to apply the law to women and men, and then, of course, only men. And if we are talking about that the advantage of the European Constitution is also respect for language characteristics, it seems to me that, in this case, the proposal of the Constitution for Europe for this feature of the Slovenian language, that we have a special form for men and women, is not taken into account in the Constitution, because Article 1 states: "on the basis of the will of citizens and countries of Europe to build a common future" - and so on, I do not see that part of the population, which is mostly according to statistics, and I regret that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We are all still reminded of the statement made by the High Government Representative on the other side of the Atlantic in terms of who I should call in Europe to be my qualified interlocutor. With the Constitution for Europe, on which we are going to vote today, we will probably not be able to resolve this, but we will take a big step and this very important step forward in this direction. It took a long and hard way, but this journey was very successful. Given that, in 1957, the Treaty of Rome was signed with modest ambitions to regulate the situation on the coal and steel market with six countries, and today, 50 years later, we accept the Constitution of the relationship with the 25 countries. To reach this point, much time has passed, a lot of effort has been made, intensive negotiations and many original procedures have been needed. In the final phase, 25 countries participated in the negotiations under the Convention, representing each of their own interests and also as groups of several countries with the common interest of those countries. Surely the common interest of a particular group has proved to be in the relationship of a large European country and, on the other hand, of a small group. There was a different interest in the relationship between the old EU country and many future members of the European Union and the more developed country, and the less developed countries had an interesting debate. It is no wonder that the Convention lasted almost a year and a half and that an act full of compromises has emerged as the lowest common denominator of all 25 countries' interests. The Convention ended work just before the enlargement of the European Union with 10 new countries, so the document is relatively balanced and acceptable for all, and on the other hand probably no one is satisfied with everything, everyone has to sacrifice something and everyone has got a lot. The Constitution lays down certain frameworks for the operation of the Union as well as its citizens. It is particularly important for me to include the principle of sustainable development in order to respond to the needs of today's generations, but without compromising the needs of future generations, the market economy and the relatively high social character. We have had an interesting debate at this time on the knowledge of the European Constitution. We probably all agree that the Constitution is almost an expert topic that is not of interest to the general public, and this is also shown by public research. We support the adoption of the Constitution of the European Union by Slovenian citizens 60%, with up to 20% of respondents knowing or partly knowing matter. In this regard, it is considered that a referendum is not necessary for adoption. That's the relationship that theory knows. At the meeting of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly, a recognised constitutional expert presented this issue as follows: " Up to 20% of people are interested or partly interested in this subject, 50% of people are interested only when they run into problems dealt with by the Constitution or think they are considering the Constitution and 30% are not interested in the subject at all." This is also illustrated by all public opinion surveys in Slovenia, which means that people trust the proposal to be aware of the need to accept it, but it is not a matter to be discussed widely. Last but not least, the former government also found out, which raises the question of why no fair research has been carried out in these days on the knowledge of the Slovenian Constitution. I'm sure the results would be similar and that the theory of interest in this matter certainly does. In my conversation with people, I have seen that more people than what is enshrined in an individual article of the European Constitution and what this means - the last successful explanation can only be given by a constitutional expert - to see whether the adoption of the Constitution will make Slovenia more European compatible. So, purely practical questions, such as whether our country will be a more legal country, or whether we will all be more equal before the law in Slovenia. Unfortunately, at this time, we are in a situation where almost no one believes in it anymore. Like whether we're going to have less judicial backlogs, or whether we're going to have less case-by-case cases or something. Many times this has nothing to do with the Constitution, but people live real life, in the real world, with real problems and problems and also with ideas. This means that some matter cannot be forced to read to people, especially if it is difficult. The European Union, as well as the Constitution, will gradually come into the minds of people through real life, through institutions that represent and condition our lives and jobs. I am also representing the view that the Constitution for Europe today needs to be ratified without unnecessary complications, and that in the future we will take the necessary steps to bring it closer to citizens in an acceptable way. I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Petan. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Equality, human dignity, solidarity, democracy, peace, human rights and fundamental freedoms, justice, the rule of law, freedom are fundamental words in a constitutional treaty or charter. Everyone has the right to freedom of expression, we read in Article 11, and this right includes freedom of opinion and the acceptance and dissemination of conscience. On this occasion, I must say that I regret the fact that freedom of expression or the breadth of freedom of expression in today's assembly is tarnished by the College's decision to limit the debate and that we will discuss a fundamental document that will frame our lives at a limited time. Today we will conclude the meeting before dinner, and before the elections, we have closed countless sessions before breakfast. I would like to touch on those fundamental articles that at least pose a challenge to me within the Charter of Fundamental Rights. I would also like to draw attention to those upgrades that we do not have in our constitutional order, even though we have these confirmed on international treaties, but still! It is interesting, for example, that in Article 3, which speaks of the right to personal integrity, we are also faced with a new concept, which has been brought about by the development of technology and science, and we are confronted with the concept of banning eugenic procedures, the gold of those whose objectives are to select people. The question raised by the development of medicine, eugenic procedures, we know that those procedures under which selection programmes are understood, sterilisation campaigns, forced pregnancy, ethnic marriages which are not permitted under the statute of an international criminal court. And this extension of Article 3 also by prohibiting such procedures is, in my opinion, very important, as is the prohibition of reproductive cloning or any other form of cloning that is not based on a medical item. Another interesting thing that is also applicable within the Charter of Fundamental Rights is Article 9, which states that the right to enter into a marriage and the right to create a family are guaranteed in accordance with national laws. That is, left to national decisions. Here we see progress from the European Convention on Human Rights, which speaks of the right of men and women to enter into a marriage and to establish a family, and in the so-called article of the Constitution we meet the definition that marriage is not the only form for a family, that is, between a woman and a man. In short, the article neither prohibits nor guarantees the status of the marriage of same-sex partners or partners - in short, leaving this to national legislation, which is very important. Spreads the definition. I would also like to draw attention to Article 12, which has some meaningful connection, of course very conceptually, with our Article 14 of the Constitution. This is, of course, an article that speaks of the prohibition of discrimination and states that it is not only a prohibition of neglect by sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, language, religion, political or other belief, national minority, property, disability, age and citizenship or even sexual orientation, but also by genetic characteristics. We are also meeting here with a new term, which has already been mentioned in international treaties, but the Commission's decision to include it in the constitution is very important. An article dealing with equality between women and men is important because it contains the principle of specific measures. Perhaps someone will wonder about it, I can see that they are already, but it seems very important to me because the result of the longer discussion that took place within the European Parliament's Commission is very similar to what happened to the 43rd Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was upgraded or upgraded and amended last year, since it says that the principle of equality does not prevent the maintenance or adoption of measures on specific benefits in favour of the underrepresented sex. It is true that it refers mainly to a professional career and a little less to political. In this very evasive, unfortunately fleeing, skipping and reviewing these articles, which, as I say, are, in my opinion, highly challenging and will certainly be met and discussed by different circles, let me mention my joy that the area of culture is as as ascetic as it is in this Treaty. It is about Member States being able to regulate this matter on their own in this area, as in the accession negotiations, when we have only met with one directive, because the only thing that is important in this area is its prosperity. Thank you for your short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. The word has magic. Franz Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u32	Honourable President, members of the government, diplomatic assembly, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are aware of their roots, which are based on the cultural, religious and humanistic heritage of Europe and which result in universal values recognised by the modern world and which we strive for in everyday life. This is also why, last year, with a large majority in the referendum, we decided that Europe would become our common home, where human rights have their place and where the personal development of individuals and national communities will be enabled. We are also aware of the fact that perhaps the only true path of general progress is primarily to overcome differences and to work together for peace, justice and solidarity in the world. In such an environment, favourable conditions can be created for the overall technological development that will take place in the service of man. The Union's wish is - and this is also enshrined in the Constitution for Europe, which we today accept - to encourage businesses, research centres and universities throughout its territory in research and technological development activities and to support cooperation and cooperation with third countries and international organisations. Special attention shall be paid to the training and mobility of researchers in the Union and to the dissemination and optimisation of the results of scientific research activities in the Union. This will result in an even greater competitiveness required to meet the other objectives set out in the Constitution. Given the broad support expressed by citizens and citizens of Slovenia at the time of our country's entry into the EU, I believe that there is no particular reason to delay ratification of the Constitutional Treaty. We are aware that the Constitutional Treaty is the fruit of a number of compromises. The text of the Constitution is written down and cannot be amended. Therefore, it is only our decision to adopt or reject the law on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe and as one of the partners in the process of European integration, to put the process at risk. I share my conviction with those who advocate a position of early adoption also to encourage those who will say "yes" to the referendum. Nevertheless, I am aware of the fact that citizens and citizens need to be made more aware of the Constitutional Treaty than has been done so far. Of course, I will support the law on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Capudre. Mr. Magg has the word. Milan Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u34	Mr President, honourable Members, Members of the National Assembly and the European Parliament, representatives of the EU countries, the Permanent Representative of the EU, and I hope that the candidates for the EU as well. Today, as a member of the National Assembly, I will support the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. I have worked with some of the participants here in the past year to add recent important details to the agreement of the leaders and to negotiate what language conditions are acceptable in the constitutional definition of the name of our future currency, the euro. In doing so, let me say that we have been discussing the name of currencies for almost as long as the entire text of the Treaty on time on the committee responsible in the previous mandate. If the debate on the constitution is concluded after ratification, this opportunity will be lost to broaden the behaviour of Europe in the debate on the constitution. If, after the ratification of the Constitution, we continue to debate and broaden our understanding of what Europe means to us, as defined by the new constitution, this will be good. If necessary, we probably all agree. What I would like to talk about today is, above all, the economic levers provided by the new constitution. The European Parliament recently spoke to the President of the European Union, Mr Jean Cloude Jounger. He said that if the first priority of this year's European Presidency is to reform the Stability and Growth Pact, then the second priority is to revise the Lisbon Strategy. The agreement on this is the basis for an agreement on the third, most difficult political agreement this year, on the next financial perspective or on the next multi-annual financial framework as set out in the Constitution. It is good to stress the equality of objectively different objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and Europe as a whole. Europe's economic objectives, as set out in Article 3(3) of the Constitution, are: firstly, the sustainable development of Europe, based on balanced economic growth and price stability, and secondly, the efforts towards a highly competitive, social, market economy aimed at full employment and social progress. It is now in Europe to establish the prosperity of Europeans and Europeans. It is about working today to ensure everyone has access to the European model of society. But it is the maintenance and development of this model that requires the implementation of reforms. However, as Mr Jounker says, Europeans and Europeans do not like reforms. Perhaps this applies to us too. We are afraid of reforms, we do not understand them or we do not want to understand good reasons for reforms. It is therefore necessary to clarify that reforms, including reforms in the economic framework of the Lisbon Strategy, ensure the preservation and sustainability of the European social model. It is also necessary to make it clear that, as long as individual countries postpone or even implement anti-reforms, we will only pay an even higher price. Your Honor! I estimate that the new constitution allows for the acceleration of economic reforms. We have passed on to the European Union through the Constitution the implementation of certain common economic policies, which are subject to the economics of the scale of resolution at EU level. However, it is crucial in this process that: for the first time, European strategies be developed every two to three years, and for the second time that European economic strategies are being implemented at country level. At the same time, it is important for countries to agree on their action plans with the social partners and to adopt them in the national parliaments. The proposal for a strategy for the development of Slovenia, prepared by June of last year, is an attempt to draw up a framework for such a plan for Slovenia. If we do this in Slovenia and because they will do it in other countries sooner than before, European economic policies will be better coordinated in the European Union than ever before. We can successfully reward the Lisbon Strategy, confirm the role of the Stability and Growth Pact and build the internal market in full. Slovenia and the whole European connection to the new constitution are thus, above all, gaining new opportunities. Whether we know how to use them will depend on us, so it is good to know this constitution. Let me conclude by informing you that it is only since 11 January 2005 that so-called readers of a friendly constitution, unfortunately only in English, is available on the European Union website with links from the national web portal. This version of the Constitution is an integral part of Europe's efforts to provide as much information as possible before deciding in domestic parliaments. Despite the fact that we have probably made little use of these joint European efforts so far, and despite the urgency, I will support the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear members of the government, distinguished guests, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! I will be happy to support the proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe with a final document. As I was proud of last May, when I was honored to raise the European flag in our municipality, I am proud today, as a member of the National Assembly, that I can participate in the ratification of such an important document as the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. This is certainly a document defining the values and objectives of the European Union, fundamental rights and citizenship of the Union, its powers, institutions and bodies, fundamental human rights; in short, the rules of the game of the citizens of Europe. It is true that the target date for the entry into force of the Treaty is only November 2006, but I do not understand the skepticism of some individuals, that ratification of the European Constitution is too rapid and that a more in-depth and wide-ranging public debate is needed. As for the concerns that the public is under-informed about the European Constitution, it is likely to be kept to some extent. However, I am sure that those who want to know things are fully available during the electronic media period, and that every citizen will also have a great deal of opportunity to be thoroughly familiar with the Constitutional Treaty. With this exaggerated fear that our citizens know little about the Constitution for Europe, I wonder how familiar we are with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia - as much as we are interested in and when it touches us personally. Slovenians are very keen to imitate and compare themselves with European countries in different areas. Today, however, we have a unique opportunity to ratify the constitutional proposal for Europe among the first countries of the European Union and thus set an example and positively influence the citizens of those countries which will decide on the ratification of this document at the referendum. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! If the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, with a large majority in the referendum, have decided for Europe, then today let us also respect the will of the citizens who have given us the opportunity to confirm the constitutional order that should also apply in this Europe. We can't let this chance out of our hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Today we are adopting a document which, at least after being represented in this assembly and after the ceremony that we have undertaken before the beginning of this meeting, can be compared to Slovenia's entry into the EU. If, for that time, we were convinced in the Slovenian National Party that Slovenian citizens and citizens were under-informed about what lies ahead in beautiful Europe and, above all, not sufficiently realistically aware of what lies ahead in Europe - I do not know what to think today when we accept this constitutional treaty. These claims and beliefs also confirm public research. 73% of those people who don't know what we're doing here today don't know the contents. And among these 73%, I think there are also a few of your constituents, as well as the voters of my predecessor, who he used to send to the Internet a little bit earlier to read something for themselves. Finally, not long ago, on the Committee on European Affairs, on which you are on only the known grounds, the obvious flies primarily to the representatives of the Liberal Democracy and the United List, and you have ruled out the public, at least to the best of my knowledge, concerns regarding the speed of the adoption of this Constitutional Treaty. Today or for a few weeks, a few days after you made that statement on the committee, your opinion changes so quickly! Isn't that double-crossing? Wouldn't you call that a double personality somewhere? In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that, if the Constitutional Treaty were to be adopted later, it would be said that people would be given some time to get acquainted with it, not done by the previous government, but had some time to do so, unfortunately, even the current government with the ratification of this constitutional treaty would be quick, nothing catastrophic would have happened in this country, nor would the quality of people's lives have changed dramatically worse, let alone improved. Because as it improves, I would like to help ratify this treaty today. Given that we respect Slovenians and Slovenians in the Slovenian National Party, we cannot support this constitution without their awareness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u40	Dear High Council! At the time of the establishment of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, it has been repeatedly stressed that such a text should be adopted, which would be of principled nature and comprehensible, so that it could be brought closer to the entire population in the EU Member States. However, this has not been achieved, and there is no doubt that a very large and difficult work has been done, a compromise has been reached with which all individual national governments in the EU agree, and a compromise as a basis on which governments want to participate in the future with a view to actually benefiting European citizens, Member States, including their regions and local authorities, and ensuring the effective functioning of the Union institutions and thus the EU as a whole. Obviously, however, the excessive complexity of the text could not be avoided. Instead of a clear text of principle, which will provide only a framework and a basis for future cooperation, decision-making and functioning in the European Union and in the European Union, we have received a text indicating that it is more an inter-State contract or a set of inter-State treaties than a constitutional or constitutional text in a classical sense. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, which we are currently considering and intending to ratify today, provides greater clarity on the nature of the Union and its objectives and on the relations between the Union and the Member States. The objectives of the Union and its powers and limitations, its political tools and its institutions are detailed, and the dual legitimacy of the Union is confirmed, as it is established that the Union is a Union of States and Citizens. In Slovenia, a large majority of voters supported the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union. This does not, of course, mean that a more thorough and broad presentation or a serious public and professional debate on the Constitutional Treaty would not be necessary. In particular, here, I would like to look at at least the fact that this Treaty specifically encircles the system of recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms and the system of their enforcement and protection. The inclusion of the European Union Charter on Fundamental Rights in the text of the Treaty creates an atmosphere and legal basis, with full respect for the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the social instruments adopted by the Union and the Council of Europe and the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. All of this is of paramount importance since the introduction and provision of even higher and harmonised human rights standards has been put in place, with a very important harmonisation of the case law or a coordinated interpretation of individual human rights and freedoms. Finally, such regulation and the rounding up of the system of human rights protection is also important for those parts of European countries that are not yet members of the European Union. There too, they will be able to invoke and call for the raising of standards for the consolidation and protection of human rights in their own countries, because Europe does not count only 450 million people as much as we are in the European Union, but we are all about 800 million. And let us not forget, in the rest of Europe, people want to join the European Union precisely because it is in the European Union that they see the strongest guarantee of respect for human rights. Human rights are universal and indivisible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Excellencys, ambassadors, high-ranking guests, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I am among those who support early ratification, because I am sure that this proves the responsibility and maturity of Slovenia as the new members of the European Union, and I also believe that this is an important message for other members, especially those who will organise the referendums. I agree, however, that what has been delayed in informing that it will be necessary to do so in the coming days, weeks and months. In agreement with the constitution, it seems essential to me that this document means, however, all legitimate objections, even though it is not an ideal but a historic achievement for an enlarged united Europe and an opportunity for its future. For the European Union has not had a more comprehensive, in my view, better, from the beginning to this day - but I say this not only because I have had the opportunity to participate in the conclusion phase of the convention, but I am confident of this more democratically prepared institutional and guidance document than this proposal. It's also unprecedented in the world. The unanimous definition of values and objectives without exaggeration means a civilizational achievement for Europe and the world. Let me mention just some economic and social elements: the model of the social market economy, equality, justice, solidarity, focus on full employment, the fight to reach exclusion, economic, social and territorial cohesion, knowledge and technology, environmental care - all of these are, colleagues and colleagues, key components of sustainable development. The network of values and objectives, together with the more democratic and transparent decision-making that the Constitution provides or makes possible, is particularly useful for the more important role of small countries, Slovenia is also saying, for the greater role of European and national parliaments, for social partners and regional and local communities, and for non-governmental organisations, and thus largely responds to the growing problems and challenges of the modern world and ensures greater economic and development efficiency and the greater role of united Europe in an increasingly globalised world. It guarantees, I hope, also reducing the negative effects of globalisation. What will be achieved depends, above all, on policies, on concrete measures and one of the first such tests will be the financial perspective already under way. And let me conclude: what can Slovenia expect from this constitution? Above all, what we will be able and capable of, and what we ourselves will know with our own activity, we will take advantage of by our engagement. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Dr. Mitja Slavinec has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to all of you. The Constitution is a fundamental and supreme act that defines the principles and organisation of one country and the community, and therefore the people and the inhabitants do not usually feel or at least often do not feel in everyday life. This is probably also the reason why the European Constitution does not seem too important to the general public and goes more or less beyond them, but also today's debate and the adoption of the Constitution alone is a formality. On the other hand, the European Constitution is a relatively extensive document, which, as such, defines many specific issues and still touches on the daily lives of our citizens and citizens. This is precisely what should be given special attention, even more so because it is in these areas that the Constitution leaves us with shared powers. It is therefore necessary, on the one hand, to take advantage of the benefits of our membership in the European Union and, on the other hand, the real measure of Euroscepticism. It is not blind to take over all the proposals and solutions that come from the European Union, but to preserve what we already have more and more effective than the European Union; and not only to keep it with us, but also to transfer it to Europe. With as many of these contributions as possible, we will be able to penetrate the European Union, providing our citizens and citizens with a better quality of life and, finally, ensuring greater influence within the European Union, which will not result in such a difficult transfer of certain sovereignty from the country to the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. Dr. Mark Pavlich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u46	Today it is Tuesday, 1.2.2005, the speeds randomly composed of the number 12, which on the flag of the European Union in the form of gold - yellow stars depicts the parable of perfection: 12 months, 12 days and night hours, 12 apostles and 12 Heracles' works. The stars were still scattered and Beethoven's Joy Odo was only played at the occasional concerts, when on May 9, 1950, French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman, surrounded by visionary siam by fellow Jean Monet, stated that we will not be able to create Europe at once or on a simple plan, we will build it with concrete steps that will first actually create solidarity. As former European Parliament President Pat Cox wrote, the last enlargement of the European Union is an extraordinary opportunity, a moment of restoration and recovery, a reunification of the continent, which lasts the European Barbara century, but the doors to the European Union must not remain closed. Negotiations with Romania and Bulgaria are in full swing, we are negotiating with the countries of the Western Balkans, Turkey is increasingly flirting with us. Geographical and political boundaries are getting softer shaves and slowly disappearing, but it is now up to us people to clean up our mental attics and get used to equality, coexistence, cooperation, tolerance and tolerance. On 1 May, Slovenia launched into a historic and future orbit, where it is sunk in the European legal order and at the same time reflects its language and culture. Today we have the opportunity to breathe life together in this treaty. We have often heard the dilemma of whether we really need a constitution for Europe, and it is not difficult to agree with the President of the Court of Justice of the European Communities that this is yes. In this regard, he cites three key words: symbolism, legal certainty and effective action. Some also believe that the European Constitution should be adopted in a pan-European referendum or in a referendum of all Member States, which should be held at the same time, where European citizens should for the first time collectively and directly perform their functions in a sovereign manner. The idea is valuable or highly idealistic and impractical, as experience shows. People are under-informed, and it's probably our fault. And here's this about the translation. The Constitution was born in a European spirit and a Euro-expression that was rapidly under the great influence of French. Slovenian authentic text is not perfect, but far from being bad, as in other languages it is not written in a classic stable stylistic and spelling way. It is time to get used to the Euro-Slovakia as soon as possible, which is a necessary consequence of the European way of doing business, but not to the detriment of the mother tongue that we must speak for ourselves. So today is a great European-Slovenian day, let us hope that the Treaty of Constitution for Europe will enter into force as early as next year, that the euro will soon be taken over by the free members and that Europe will once truly be united in a variety, not only in the form of an economic, security and all-political forum, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u47	Mr. Pavliha [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u48	but also in the hearts and heads of European citizens and citizens. [[...]] Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, ministers, Commissioner, diplomatic assembly, MEPs, distinguished guests, respected colleagues and colleagues! The decision at the referendum to join the European Union was clearly expressed by the Communication which imposed on Slovenia and Slovenian policy further bold steps towards a united Europe. And today we have come to an end. After 16 months of intensive work, the European Convention unanimously approved this draft constitution for Europe. On 18 June, an agreement was reached between representatives of the Member States' governments. And, as already mentioned, this Treaty is signed in Rome, which is, of course, an important milestone in a united Europe of 25 countries, with 450 million inhabitants, setting out a framework in which the European Union operates. The important message of the Constitution is certainly what we have heard in the National Assembly several times today, respect for certain values and the European model of society - freedom, democracy, the rule of law, human rights, tolerance, justice, solidarity, equality and much more. We already know these values in Slovenia, we may still lack them here and there. However, I believe that we will also improve this together in the future. Freedoms such as free movement of people, goods, services and capital are also very important. Of course, I will support this issue, simply because it is a common goal in a united Europe of peace and prosperity, freedom, security, justice, free competition, protection of rights and many other of our common goals. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for this reason, as a citizen and Member of the Republic of Slovenia, I am proud of today's action to support this ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, with a final charter, which will also help, I hope, to improve the situation and life of as many citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as possible, and to respect the basic messages of the Constitution, fundamental freedoms, for the overall progress of all Europeans and Europeans. Much of this will depend primarily on us, from our work, our zeal, and our will to success. On February 1st, it is also a European day for Slovenia, and, honourable Mr President, I hope that you have already put on a cold bottle that we will, I am sure, support this document with a large majority, and also by good Slovenian practice, toast this European event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u52	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Within a few months, it will be a year from we share the same fate with the other 24 countries of the old continent in a new, enlarged European Union. Together, after what was concluded in Lisbon, we are all expected to become the world's leading economic force and human beings in the next few years - and this, ambitiously, by 2010 - and the most environmentally friendly society in the world. The Treaty of Constitution for Europe offers us the first serious, consistent and comprehensive legal and institutional framework within which we can place and implement this great, high ambition. The document is not the best. Personally, I miss a braver word against war than a means to resolve international disputes, which would make it clear to the first transatlantic ally that the policy that is going on in Europe is not welcome, but is optimal and, in the given circumstances, worthy of support. And what is this support for as soon as possible? For the other partners, there has been a lot of talk about this, let us say that our 90 % 'yes' referendum to EU accession has not been an accident and that we are confident today that the current problems in the part of the economy despite the fact that the choice was the right one. I am joining those who say in their speech against urgency that ratification is only the last act in a process that is already going on long enough for everyone who is interested in the contents and effects of this Charter to have a detailed understanding of it and to have it defined in any way. And nothing else, colleagues and colleagues, than when we proclaimed our domestic Slovenian Constitution, this was also talked about by a colleague from the People's Party, she did not read it to the general public, but she trusted the founder. Later, her awareness of constitutional rights and obligations had become almost self-evident. It is our common duty, of course, to contribute to this self-confidence through an appropriate information programme. Let me recall the call of the European Social Democrats to all national governments for the widest possible and elaborate information campaign with the aim, in particular, not as much information as the training of people to understand and use constitutional provisions, especially in the content that is most important to them. It is clear from this debate that I will support the ratification law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The EU is undoubtedly the most sophisticated and effective mechanism created by humanity to ensure prosperity and peace. Among the parables of this mechanism is that it is some kind of "Rubik's Cube" which, through changes, finds its shape and content again on the way to ensuring the well-being of peace. However, this Treaty places itself democratically at the core of relations in Europe. A precedent is being realized, the effect of which will certainly mark the fate of the world. For all time, you will remain in mankind’s memory and awareness that such a thing is possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Battelli. Mr. Magg has the word. Tomaž Strabe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, esteemed excellencies, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues! The elected representatives of citizens and citizens today have the time and duty to confirm the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union signed by the Heads of State and Government of 25 countries, as well as our previous governments. In 2003, we witnessed a pre-referendum debate, with a large majority of us at the March 2003 consultation referendum, with a 90% majority, decided to join the European Union, and nine months ago we became members of the European Union. Until the accession treaty was signed between the 15 members of the European Union and the 10 new members of the European Union in April 2003, a number of public debates took place in Athens in open negotiations and in coordination with different opinions on the provisions of this Treaty. It should be pointed out that all the meetings of the so-called Convention, which prepared the Constitutional Treaty, were open to the public, with all the official documents published mainly on the websites. A number of working groups have also been established and the Convention has prepared extensive consultations with organisations representing civil society. The debate on the content of the Constitutional Treaty has been lengthy and is therefore the result of a number of negotiations and coordinations. At the time of the European Convention and the formation of the content of the Constitutional Treaty, we received various materials that informed us of the content of the document. We have received by the municipalities a whole series of copies of the Constitution Treaty for Europe with a very clear and effective description, as all Members and Members received today in a copy. In our congregation, we distributed these materials last year among households, and I hope that other mayors and mayors did the same. The fact is that the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty is not a matter of urgency, but actually of continuing the path. At the referendum, the Republic of Slovenia decided to join the European Union, decided for the most part to enter Slovenia, and also actively participated in the drafting of the text of the Convention and the future of Europe. With only a change in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and then in the referendum on entry into the European Union, we have already legalised the transfer of the work of sovereign rights to the institution of the European Union. Today, we have the honour to express our thoughts and opinions on the expectations and future, challenges and responsibilities of all of us in order to fulfil our wishes, for the quality and quality of life not only in Europe but also globally. You've mentioned a lot, colleagues and colleagues. The European Union provides its citizens with a space of freedom, security and justice and an internal market based on free and fair competition. At the same time, it is working towards the sustainable development of Europe on the basis of balanced economic growth and price stability, a highly competitive market economy leading to full employment and social progress, for a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment. Through these guidelines, scientific and technological progress is being accelerated. It should also be stressed that it fights social exclusion and discrimination, promotes justice and social protection, equality between men and women, solidarity between generations and the protection of children's rights. Above all, it is important that the European Treaty Alliance promotes economic, social and territorial cohesion and solidarity between Member States. This solidarity and coherence of development is reflected in the amount of over €200 billion, i.e. a third of the European budget. Fears of the limitations of sovereignty and payment to others are based on servantly cowardice before the seriousness of the task. No more self-reproaching and self-improvement, hiding behind the demagogic and propaganda - eloquent patronizing words. We can practice concrete, creative, competitive ideas and actions. We're in a big world where Slovenians are always supposed to be successful. Smallness is an opportunity; we need to distinguish between joint projects that we need to support effectively and the political competition of opinions that lead to the right decisions. A Europe of Scandinavian technological success, openness and realistic, co-ordinated societies of prosperity, tradition and temperament, historic wars, revolutionary-ideological experiences, great culture is a good journey and wealth that we can all draw and offer to the world. Why not be among the first to set an example and support others to uphold the European Constitution? We are responsible and truly responsible for helping those who, for historical and mental reasons, find it more difficult to accept connections, despite the knowledge that they are necessary and useful. The question and search for a formula between the Federation and Europe-domestic is a challenge that is resolved by the Constitutional Treaty as a good compromise. It is not a matter of haste, therefore, but of continuing the journey and following the ideas and objectives of Europe set by the fathers of Europe. We must encourage and show determination, direct all energy to the search for opportunities and challenges for our own enforcement and successful co-existence between the European peoples. We are now extremely fortunate to have our country and country Slovenia in Europe, and the responsibility and great opportunity to create Europe and through it the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Stebeth. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished guests. In his presentation of the views of the Slovenian National Party, colleague Bogdan Barovic said everything; he said what was important for the decision of the Slovenian National Party on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for the European Union today. The Prime Minister or his expert team apparently overlooked the actual situation and trend towards the introduction of the term "Europe Two Speeds" when reviewing the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. Mr President, unfortunately he is no longer among us - practice has shown that the constitutional principle on equality of the Member States, which he likes to stress, is only India Koromandy, I am sorry. Also due to the servants' kneeling of the Slovenian authorities for commendation or as we have already heard from the acquisition of "the status of the good girl". Interested is the conclusion of the People's Party that Slovenia will set an example for the sake of fairness. Who, please? Great Britain? Funny, really funny. The absolute maturity of Slovenia is to be demonstrated by ratifying the Constitutional Treaty on European Union or for the European Union. The absolute maturity of Slovenia has been demonstrated by actions to fulfil the substantive chapters for entry into the European Union. By ratifying today, we will only show our immatureness. And respectable friends and colleagues, if you're in a club, then respect the rules of the game. And you have responsibilities and rights in them. We must not hold back and accept this, distinguished representatives, high representatives, that Slovenia takes only its responsibilities and responsibilities with the emphasis we have already heard today. What rights do we have? Colleagues from Liberal Democracy, is Euro-Slovak our new right? Today we have time. Tomorrow will be too late. Today we can choose our rights with a sobering view of the time of ratification. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not say, "Pour the Slovenians and the Slovenians of pure wine", but they deserve our respect and that is, this must be our moral obligation in the first place. Colleagues from SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Squire Tavsh. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u60	Thank you, for your word. Good-bye, everyone. The Constitutional Treaty for Europe gives us an even greater responsibility for peace, prosperity, freedom and security. We are implementing this within the countries themselves through regional policy. I would, of course, like to say that it is extremely important that differences between countries are shrinking or between regions, but I would also point to Slovenia, where the Eastern, Western Slovenia is often mentioned, but we forget about southern Slovenia, which plays an extremely important role precisely because it is also at the Schengen border, and it is right that in these implementations we mention, of course, also southern Slovenia, which is particularly important due to the implementation of regional policy. The novelty of the Constitutional Treaty is certainly foreign policy. If we know how to regulate our prosperity within the European Union, we will be able to apply it throughout the world through foreign and defence policy. I think that Europe has a great deal of experience in this area, and I think that we will also, through foreign and defence policy, apply them effectively enough to contribute to the successful development of the whole world, so I will also support this Constitutional Treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr. Franz Kangler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Today, there have been many things said in this hall, an esteemed assembly, and my debate will be brief. I also support the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for the European Final Document. After all, the Slovenians in May 2004 saw us unite in the European Union to become the real Europeans we were centuries ago. The political systems were those of the Slovenian people, and even as a Slovenian country for centuries back, we were not independent, we were not in the right place, and in some ways I would like to say that many things have been said in recent times by the middle power around the content of the constitution - almost too much. It is important that every independent country, like Slovenia, has received its constitution, that a united Europe also has its basis, a basis for the work of all countries joining the European Union. It is also important that every nation that works with a complete circle calls it the European Union to have a legal basis. And each person can get to know this legal basis, refer to it, and seek his own right, in which he also finds his own duty. It is the Slovenian nation that knows both the rights and the duties we have. I would like to conclude my concluding thought slowly. The Slovenian nation must be aware of its roots, which are European roots, and we must be aware that we were born, that we are living and that we will remain on the old continent. And these roots that we have, our foreign policy must also strengthen the pro-European roots and must also strengthen the example and provide an initiative to strengthen the old European continent. It is very important for all the nations that unite in the EU. A colleague from the Slovenian National Party mentioned the Slovenian People's Party earlier. To whom will we set an example? Will we set an example for Britain? Yeah. The Slovenian nation can set a pattern for many people in Europe and in the world as well. The Slovenian people are a small nation. For centuries, we have been with the storms, in our own words, and we have also won many battles. We have received it, we have gained our independence and also our visibility both within this territory and within the EU. Slovenian is also an official language and the Slovenian state, although small, has a small number of inhabitants, can be an example both of Great Britain and of Germany as well as of France, as well as of Luxembourg or any smaller country. The Slovenian nation is recognized in Europe and even in the world as working, as diligent, has many world-renowned experts, has its own history, has its own culture, has its own language, eventually has everything. If we know how to unify Slovenian politics both on domestic soils, we will also represent Slovenia and our example, as well as as as a nation, across Europe and also outside the EU.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mrs. Žgainer responded to the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I was appointed because I am the only colleague or member of the Slovenian National Party sitting in Parliament. The Lord, who quoted me or challenged the replica, misinterpreted what the Slovenians were able to do, at least I got that feeling myself, and I suppose most of us are in there. I would just like to point out that recently, just a year ago, when we decided whether Slovenia would go to the EU or not, then we took the example of the British, the Germans, in short Western Europe, until the old EU member. Today, you think someone with this ratification will take the lead in Slovenia. That's what I'm talking about. And once again, I would like to point out that it's really funny, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Squire. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! When I arrived at today's meeting, a journalist stopped me in the lobby and asked me if the Members knew the European Constitution well enough. I said that probably not and that any discussion about it was welcome, not only yesterday and today, but also in the coming days and months. The debates on the constitution will always be valid. I also said that I am not taught enough myself to know her basic moves. Despite my lack of knowledge, allow me to say a few sentences on this occasion. The first part of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe sets out in its objectives that the Union will strive for the sustainable development of a Europe based on balanced economic growth and price stability, a highly competitive social market economy focused on full employment and social progress, combating social exclusion and discrimination and promoting social justice and protection. With the entry into the European Union on 1 May 2004, we carried out a project in the Republic of Slovenia for a decade. Slovenia's entry into the European Union is not only beneficial, but it has become clear to us so far that Slovenia can only progress if it is included in the circle of the most economically and socially stable countries. How vulnerable we are, but it was on the day of the accession treaty's solemn ratification that one of the British multinational companies showed us almost symbolically when she announced at the press conference that she was shutting down production at the Ljubljana Tobacco Factory. As one of the reasons for this step, Slovenia's entry into the European Union and the revised conditions of management have been cited. Obviously, the owner of the factory was not interested in the workers but only the smokers, as they transferred the production to another country, with a cheaper workforce. We want to -- let me conclude -- that such events would be as small as possible. It is clear, however, that the implementation of the European Constitution will be a very difficult task. Highly set targets in the European Constitution should not remain just letters on paper, so they must also be reflected in real everyday life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Excellency, distinguished high choir, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, with the final document, which I hope we will confirm today, means an important acquisition for Slovenia. In my view, the Constitution is priceless for the future of the Union. It clearly sets out who is responsible for which area in the European Union defines the competences and responsibilities of individual institutions. With the entry into force of the Constitutional Treaty, the European Union will be governed by a single legal act or an international treaty, i.e. an agreement between the Member States of the European Union. It seems to me that the text at the final stage is in line with the views expressed by the Republic of Slovenia during the intergovernmental conference. This is a personal key information to me that confirms the fact that this Treaty also takes into account the interests of small countries, such as Slovenia. Therefore, the Government's decision to propose to the National Assembly the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty as soon as possible was correct and fully justified. The latest Eurobarometer, which has also been published, also shows a tremendous preference for the ratification of the Treaty. In some political circles, however, it is regrettable that there was not enough room for an in-depth discussion of the Treaty. I myself, with all the topics that are trying to raise some suspicion of the appropriateness of the constitutional procedure for Europe, of course, I do not agree. The recent reasons do not include any substantive concerns. What does that mean? There's no real reason why we can't confirm the contract today. Why is it good to confirm the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe with the Final Charter as soon as possible? We have already found that the content of the contract for Slovenia is acceptable and well prepared. The adoption will increase the number of positive countries, which is certainly a good signal for the countries in which the referendums will be held on the subject. The positive and rapid response of the government and parliament certainly has weight. However, with regard to public participation in the drafting of the bill, I can say that a special forum was established at the time of the Convention for about 16 months, where all those representatives of the interested public who wanted to participate in the substantive part of the treaty met regularly. Even during the electoral campaign for the European Parliament, at least 30 public tribunals on the European Constitution were prepared in the Slovenian Democratic Party. So we can see that the public has been informed of the reasons and content and has been able to actively participate in its creation. Of course, today's ratification will not end the debate on the Constitution for Europe, but it will only start well, because I believe it is our duty and the duty of the government to further stimulate the interest of the Slovenians and Slovenians with the content of the Slovenian and European Constitution. It seems that we agree with almost all political parties in Parliament with the content itself, and it is entirely unnecessary for me to raise a negative call or suspicion among people that the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe will not be useful to them. Since Slovenia is preparing for the Presidency of the European Union, today's adoption of the law will give the rest of the European Union an example and confirmation that this Treaty is an important and necessary document. I'll be happy to support the bill myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all present in the building of the Slovenian Parliament! I am pleased that we are among the first countries to ratify the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. The mandate for the verification of this Constitutional Treaty was given to the National Assembly at the referendum on the entry into the European Union when Slovenian citizens decided to join the Union plebiscite. In the European Constitution, however, I miss the explicit orientation of the protection of indigenous minorities. While the Slovenian Constitution has provided the indigenous Italian, Hungarian communities with an adequate state of law, the European Constitution for the protection of minorities is much more reserved. The excuse that she could only join the European Union is that country that cares about the rights of the nationalities does not convince me the most. I don't think our negotiators were persistent enough. Although I also understand this avoidance of explicit minority references to some extent, some seven people of today's European Union are among the minorities in one way or another. On the other hand, we know that the protection of minorities is fundamental to peace, security and stability in Europe on the one hand, and to the democratic indicator of each country on the other. Minority members like to hear a common metaphor that a minority is a bridge between nations and countries. We walk on bridges and no one likes to be walked on. But minorities only want positions and rights that go to the majority people. Indeed, in many other articles of the Constitution for Europe, it is possible to understand minority concerns. First, in Article 2, which speaks of respect for human rights, including the rights of members of minorities. We can also follow the constitutional rights of minorities in the articles on non-discrimination. The new circumstances with countries where the indigenous Slovenian Nationality Community lives took place last year with Slovenia's entry into the European Union and will be further ratified by the European Constitution. I am sure that this step will also be taken by neighbouring countries, and we are all becoming citizens of the European Union together with this constitution. This will also be a new opportunity to overcome obstacles from the past. One of these opportunities will soon come to mind half a century after the signing of the Austrian State Treaty and once again reminding us that not all the rights under this State Treaty have been realized to the Slovenians in the Austrian Republic. All I'd say is this. Of course, the Treaty of Constitution for Europe is not an optimal document, but it brings so many advantages that I will gladly support the ratification law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. He's quitting. The Prime Minister has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word. Dear Members and Members, distinguished guests! First of all, perhaps a few answers, in fact, to some of the concerns and dilemmas raised in this debate regarding what will happen if the European Constitutional Treaty is not ratified within this deadline, it is said that by the end of next year, what will happen if citizens in any of the countries where the referendum will be held and where the ratification referendum will be decided will not go through unless the decision is supported by a majority. There's a possibility. The referendum will be held in some countries where public opinion is very shared. That's what you need to be prepared for. At this point, there is no one who can guarantee 100% that this ratification will be carried out everywhere within these deadlines. If that were to happen, it would be something new. Even the last two important or fundamental treaties of the European Union, both the Maastricht and those of Nice, were not ratified within the expected time limit, if I am not mistaken, the failure of the Maastricht Treaty to ratify the referendum in Denmark was, and then they sought and found some additional options and solutions. In the ratification of the Nice Treaty, the first referendum in Ireland was unsuccessful and has been repeated, but despite these complications both were relatively soon to enter into force. If not, Slovenia could not be a member of the European Union today, which would not be possible without ratification of the Treaty of Nice. Nobody talks about what the reserve scenarios are for this case, but, as has already been said, there are paths and variants on the basis of which, not at the same time, because this is not possible, but still in real time, the contract is put into effect. However, I do hope that at any of these referendums, the voters of the treaty will not be able to support the Treaty, as it is set out in the first real term, because it is the end of 2006, for Slovenia as well as for all other European Union countries, which are already existing, as well as for those who are still waiting for entry and membership in the European Union, that is a significantly better situation, a significantly greater step forward, a better situation than it is today. In particular, as we said before and as some others have pointed out, this is true for the new members and for the smaller members of the EU. Clear rules of the game always go to the benefit of one who is not the greatest, is not the strongest, but is formally equal. Otherwise, I can say on behalf of the Government that we are pleased with the great or high support that has been expressed today, virtually by all the parliamentary groups, including the representatives of the representatives of the two nationalities, with the exception of one parliamentary group that has announced that it will vote against ratification. This opinion must be respected. Finally, in the European Parliament, where the elected Members are directly responsible for the conduct of European affairs, not all have voted in favour of ratification, some have even protested loudly against ratification. It's a democracy. This support, which has been expressed today, and I will say, is greater, given some of the concerns that have been seen in the public in recent days, I think it is realistic that the continuation of this great unity, which was in Slovenia when this phased objective, is also a phased national goal in this development of our EU accession. I am pleased that the views on this have remained the same, and the parties have changed. We were once in the opposition and supported Slovenia's EU membership even before the referendum, and which we have now proposed a vote on ratification, we are still representing the same position, the same principles. I am also pleased that those parliamentary groups representing the opposition, and in the previous term they constituted a government or a government majority, have not changed their views on this. This is also extremely important because at least a certain degree of unity is important when it comes to European affairs. Even now that we are a member, because of these key challenges, one of them is the EU Presidency, there is some internal consensus, the awareness that we must be on these issues, if only through these positions and opposition divisions, is extremely important. I would like to conclude, and this has already been highlighted in my performance at the beginning, and many others have pointed out this, today, when it comes to ratifying the Constitutional Treaty, this National Assembly is essentially giving rise to a story that has lasted longer, four or more years. In fact, this development, preparation, Slovenia's participation in the European Convention marked the previous mandate, and I think that, when we give this point to and ratify this Constitutional Treaty, we owe our joint thanks to all those who have directly participated in the preparation of this Constitutional Treaty, both from the administration, the Government of the previous call, as from the previous call of the National Assembly, to all the experts who have been involved in this, to all those representatives of the civil society institutions who, by their will, have come to these European forums in this Chamber and to other debates, have contributed their views and contributed to this content, which is now part of the European Constitutional Treaty and, of course, to all those who have reached, in particular, in these negotiations, that this Constitutional Treaty, even when it comes to certain specific interests of Slovenia, is better than it has pointed out in relation to the first drafts. In view of the expressed support that has been announced for this speaker by virtually all parliamentary groups, except one, we also expect high support in the vote. A two-thirds majority is required according to the constitutional material decided by the National Assembly for this ratification. I think that everyone who decides to do so, especially those who are now directly deciding on this ratification, is aware that with this new constitutional treaty, with this new quality in which the European Union enters, the environment in which we entered on May 1st last year, Slovenia, for all our citizens and citizens, the rules of the game will be better defined, principles, values, around which the Slovenians have also built our national being, or we have also written them as citizens and citizens of this country in our own constitution, now it receives some broad support, a wider, resilient environment, and in this resilient environment it will also be possible to achieve everything that has led to the crucial leadership of all those who perform such or different functions in Slovenia in the service of people, voters and voters who have chosen us and in a common good. Sincere congratulations on this very important act, little has been symbolized by such important votes as the ratification of this Constitutional Treaty, last but not least has this National Assembly, the Slovenian Parliament has the same competence in this decision, and this decision is equally dependent on the future of the European Union, as this future depends on all those Members who have been plowing the ice since the beginning of the European Union, but which therefore deserves our special attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u73	Thank you, Prime Minister, Mr. Janez Janša. Given that the time has not passed for the government's presentation, I ask whether any of the ministers want a word. If not, then I am concluding this debate. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, any other Members wish to take the floor? Uhan, Kokalj, Kumar, Jelen, Pojbič, Pajk, Horvat, Lachovnik, Germich and Rupar. I'm going to give the word the way it used to be, usually to the left, to the right. Three minutes, by the way. First up, Mrs. Uhan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, ministers, honourable Members, distinguished guests! In the middle of the last century after II. World War II has brought some European countries together in agreement to ensure peace and economic development for people. New treaties followed in the 1990s and new areas were added at the end of the previous century, new rules of the game. The Union has strengthened with new members, last year with the entry of a number of new voluntary members, including Slovenia. They're waiting for the entrance and they're getting ready for the new candidates. For years, Slovenia has also been preparing for this step. The Slovenian Constitution has also adapted to the European Constitution and is not contrary to the European Constitution. So, what else would we be delaying? What is the urgency of adopting the European Constitution? People don't know the European Constitution. I'm asking how many he knows Slovenian. People turn to it through different institutions when they are violated or restricted by certain rights. The European Constitution is based on human rights. In one article, for example, I quote: "The Union shall take into account in all its activities the principle of equality of its citizens who are treated equally by its institutions, bodies, offices or agencies." The Slovenian Constitution also speaks this way, but in one of the telephone votes the public opinion showed that the vast majority of Slovenian citizens believe that we are not equal before the law. It is also heard among people 'do not force us to seek justice outside, that is, in the European Court of Justice'. "We'll go out," they say, because it's allowed there and stuff. So they believe in European institutions. For example, in many areas of agriculture, we are convinced that we are more papal than the pope in our country. I have read the articles on agriculture more precisely. Nothing like this has been written that we would not have already implemented or would not have known that we are awaiting in the implementation of the so-called common agricultural policy. As much as you put in, that's what you get. But it started years ago in the negotiations. I believe that public opinion is also favoured by the European Constitution or trust the elected representatives of the people to decide on their behalf. Otherwise, the Constitution allows us to leave the European Union. I'm asking, what would we get out of this? Would that make you smarter, safer, economically stronger? The wheel's spinning forward, there's no turning back. The Presidency of the European Union awaits us. Take advantage of the opportunity, focus our energy on development, promoting Slovenian quality and not an unnecessary referendum. In my opinion, I would end up with a good outcome, but nothing more informed people about the constitution. Let us accept it and respect Slovenian and European, and life will be easier for everyone not to say better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Uhan. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. All present in the Hall! Although there have been many positive features of the proposal that I agree with and will support the proposal, let me nevertheless express some well-intentioned critical thoughts. It is a proposal for a Constitution for Europe and there is no constitution. Its content combines long-term expectations with European reality. It comes from what has been achieved and is focused primarily on the future, which is rather an asset than a weakness. This is a transitional constitutional charter, which is based on the fact that the ordinary constitutional treaty could not encourage long-term development leading to the ideal of the United States of Europe. It is too early for a real European constitution. The view from Slovenia is in a way specific and it is not possible to get rid of the feeling that Slovenia is adopting a Constitution for Europe as if it were happening to someone else and not to us. Participation in European elections and the silent adoption of a constitutional agreement show that we have not yet fully understood the causal link between these two events, the development of Slovenia and the quality of life of citizens and citizens. Like many Europeans, people remain with us, but in any way we quote various research, somehow passive observers of change, because they have the feeling that it is mainly the fight against European and national bureaucracy, the predominance of these or those of people who are alienated. And this is a democratic flaw in the process of adopting a Constitution for Europe. This gap is also in the fact that the European Union should be able to shift faster from the organisation for which it was decided, and is still only intergovernmental cooperation, to an organism that is also guided by the influence of people, local and regional communities and national parliaments. Only then will participation in European elections be comparable to national participation. However, the constitutional debate in the public will not be able to identify or to speak only of the number of Commissioners in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr. Marjan Pojbich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u78	Dear Mr President, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests! I myself will support the adoption of the bill ratifying the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. The fact is that the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty is not a matter of urgency, but actually a continuation of the beginning of the way. At the referendum, the Republic of Slovenia decided to join the European Union, and also actively participated in the drafting of the text of the Treaty in the Convention on the Future of Europe. With only the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 3a, and then at the referendum on the entry into the European Union in March 2003, we have legalized the transfer of the work of sovereign rights to the institutions of the European Union. By ratifying the Treaty, which will be implemented by the first in the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia will provide a positive sign and an example to the other Member States of the European Union in ratifying the Treaty. Slovenia has the opportunity to be among the first. We must encourage and show determination, direct all energy to the search for opportunities and challenges for our own enforcement and successful co-existence between the European peoples. We are now extremely fortunate to have our country and country Slovenia in Europe and responsibility and a great opportunity to create Europe and through it the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Pojbich. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. I see the practice on the left, on the right is new. I agree with those who have already discussed and stressed that today is an extremely important day for Slovenia. Surely the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty, which we will support mostly, is also important for the development of the Slovenian economy. All nations in the EU, the Member States have committed themselves to the Lisbon Strategy to make the EU the most competitive, most pro-pulsive economic area in the world by 2010. The aim of this is, of course, to raise the standard of living for all citizens and residents of the EU. The Constitutional Treaty is kind of a bonded tissue. It was often obvious, including by economists, that Europe was under-connected. It is too different that it does not work to allow businesses to take advantage of their competitive advantages. The Constitutional Treaty is, in some ways, a common denominator, a binding tissue on which Member States can build further in order to become more connected in the future. Regardless of my support for today’s law, I am allowed to draw my own attention to some comments that make sense to me. I think we're still in a hurry. We are rushing simply because the fact that the Presidents of the governments ratified the Constitutional Treaty in Rome on 29 October, and the fact is that in Slovenia there has been an exchange of government, we know that somehow this was an acceptable time, and I think we have missed the opportunity to get better acquainted with the content of the Constitutional Treaty at that time. In this way, if we decided on a whole range of different forums, round tables, where different professional audiences would have the opportunity to make critical comments in the coming weeks, we would have achieved that the public is better acquainted through this process. In this way, the remaining citizens and citizens would also be aware of the importance of today's moment. This would also be an important holiday for them. I'm afraid that's not the case. I would also like to express my thoughts because some of the other members of that Treaty will ratify substantially later. There are also complications, such as those in France, Britain, and elsewhere. We are aware of this, so the question is why we are rushing, why we are afraid to get to know people even more precisely, and I think it is important that we do this because, as I said, this day would be much more glorious to them than it will be in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable Slovenian government, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow Members! Today, when the Slovenian Parliament adopts the law on the ratification of the Treaty of Constitution for Europe, it will undoubtedly be written in the history of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with special emphasis. Today's debate on the ratification of the Treaty is an entirely logical continuation of the broad support expressed by citizens and citizens to our country's accession to the European Union. A man, no more coal or steel, even less race or class, or even state money, is placed at the heart of the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. The present and future Europe embraces the inspiration of a cultural, religious and humanistic heritage, which is not a dead museum remnant, but a living idea that inspires many Europeans today in respect of human dignity. The articles written are a good basis for their implementation, but the European Union must do much more than adopt and ratify the Constitution. First, it must create the conditions for the family to be recognised as a value and young spouses will have the opportunity to create and sustain a family. If we solve demographic problems primarily by immigration, then our cultural heritage, European languages, culture, religion, the European Union and European civilisation in general are threatened, in short, by what we wish to preserve and, above all, strengthen through the Constitution. I want Oda to sound hymnic to many future generations as well, so I am happy and proud to support the law on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members, Prime Minister, Ministers, European Commissioner, Members of the European Parliament! In a democratic party of pensioners as well as I personally agree with the views of the Committee on European Union Affairs, as well as with the views drawn up by the Committee on Foreign Policy at its meeting. Nor does our Group's opinion differ. This is one of the right ways for Slovenia to approach the rule of law and punish it. This legal order also brings greater favor to Slovenia for human rights, respect and conscience. In Slovenia, we want to achieve ratification as quickly as possible. This is also the only possible way to prove to others rapid and successful integration, without delay and expensive referendums served by some other members. To agree with the proposed law and ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for the European Charter, it is also important because of our future Presidency in the European Union. By ratifying or approving the signed international treaty, we will also contribute to greater economic performance and greater security for our citizens and citizens in Slovenia. This is the only way to adopt European rules and an agreement that shows no imposition of European interests, but through this act of ratification we will see the light of a new path, the value of human co-forming and working on a European scale. I personally have no comments on the law, so I would like to support this action by informing the entire Slovenian public about the adoption and the framework programme. We'll vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Yelena. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u86	Thank you very much. As a Member and as Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I have received some specific proposals and comments from civil society over the last two days concerning specific articles. And given that we are hearing that there has not been enough public debate, it seems fair for me to present these proposals and concerns publicly to the National Assembly and to them as clearly as possible. The first comment or proposal concerns the possibility of interpreting the preamble, namely, I will read the proposed text: "From the centuries of historical connection between the Slovenian people and the Catholic Church should be..." part of the preamble. "According to the history of the Member States and citizens of the European Union, the indivisible and universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity and everything that Europe owes to its Christian spiritual and moral heritage, from which Europe should draw hope for the future..." And then a proposal for an interpretation of Article 2: "The values of the Union include the values of those who believe in God as the source of truth, justice, good and good, as well as those who do not share this protection, but who see these universal values with due respect." I answer to the instigators that procedurally this text cannot be included in the debate and in the amendment. However, I think that this public presentation is an incentive for those who could personally accept such a text to follow it. With regard to the content of the Constitutional Treaty itself, the following concerns are expressed: that the Constitution of the European Union provides for subsidiarity only as a means of increasing the limitation of the remaining competences of national states, that Article 54 of the Charter repeals the 11th Article of the Charter, which provides citizens of the European Union with the right to freedom of expression, and that the Charter of Fundamental Rights is being amended into a list of those which are not allowed to speak freely in the European Union and to discuss them publicly, that the obligations of citizens are not defined, even though the de jure transfer of the sovereignty of the European Union is a matter of de facto abolition of national sovereignty, and that the Constitution will extend the powers of the European Union in the field of justice and internal affairs and exercise control over external borders and internal security, and that the European Union can standardise civil law, criminal law and procedures. I am responding to this with the following arguments, which prevent me from making these concerns too unfounded or giving them too much weight at the moment. I myself believe that, as regards sovereignty within the framework of the delegated powers to the administrative order of the European Union, Slovenia is in charge of the legal order of Slovenia, this exists after the regulation so far, only it is not explicitly recorded, and it is finally explicitly mentioned that there is a possibility of voluntary withdrawal from the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Bones. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u88	Your Honors are here! The implementation of the European Constitutional Treaty is of great importance because it lays a new and more understandable foundation for the European Union, as the current European legal body is extremely opaque and is difficult to understand for the European law of an ignorant citizen. Given the time limit, I would only draw attention to some of the fundamental improvements that the Constitutional Treaty brings to the European legal order, including better sharing of powers between the Union and the Member States, the integration of European Union treaties and the abolition of the pillar structure of the European Union, the simplification of the Union's legislative procedures, the strengthening of democracy, transparency and efficiency in the functioning of the EU and the better sharing of power among institutions. In the division of powers between the Union and the Member States, the Constitutional Treaty has brought new developments in the classification of powers. It has divided these into exclusive, shared and supportive measures. In the present regulation, divorce is not clear, resulting in the lack of transparency in the functioning of the Union. The Constitutional Treaty will also abolish the pillar structure of the Union, which was in force by the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty. By abolishing the Union’s pillar structure, the Constitutional Treaty also introduces a single decision-making process, which in a formal sense means that it introduces a Community method into all areas of decision-making. The Community method is better for smaller members because its main players are the European institutions pursuing common interest, while in the application of the intergovernmental method is at the forefront of decision-making in the Member States. These carry different weights in an informal sense. For example, the impact of large decision-making is significantly greater than the impact of smaller ones. Of course, there are some exceptions to the constitutional contract in part three. Thus, areas dominated by intergovernmental elements remain but are significantly smaller. Simplification of legal instruments is also a good consequence of the abolition of pillars. Thus, only six of the 15 instruments will now be used. The Constitution has mainly addressed the resolution of the democratic deficit in view of the greater impact of national parliaments on the decision-making of the Union. The Protocol in application of the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality thus introduces an early warning mechanism whereby a third of parliaments may require the Commission to reconsider the legislative proposal if the initiators assess that Union action in a given area would be less effective than action by Member States, i.e. contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. From the individual's point of view, it is also very important to include the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the text of the Treaty. This has made the Charter legally binding, which means that both European and national institutions will have to follow it in applying European law. I will, of course, support the draft law on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, on the basis of the above and the arguments presented here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. Boyan Rugelj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. A nice greeting to all present, a nice greeting to our guests, government representatives led by Mr. Janez Janša, a nice greeting also to the viewers of television and all the others who accompany us today! I will be happy to vote in favour of the European Constitution today, in order to fulfil the will of the Slovenian people, expressed at the referendum, to join the European Union. Only then will Europe become stronger, both politically and politically. I think it is also right that we are voting on this today in an extraordinary session, as we are paying particular attention to this European constitution, which also deserves it. Tens of thousands of hours and thousands of people participated in the drafting of this Constitutional Treaty and also in the coordination process. Therefore, I think it is right that, even today, we, in some way, reaffirm the will of all these people and the desire for this merger. Nor do I mind, on the contrary, I am proud to be among the first to support this European Treaty. Why not be first for once, why wait always for what others will say? I am sure that today we will accept this European Constitutional Treaty by a large majority, and in the evening we will also drink to this joint venture of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ruggle. Mr Pavel Rupar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u92	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Grand Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests! As I am the last one, I am also aware that I do not have a mandate to speak on behalf of all Members and Members. Nevertheless, I think that many of you will agree with my words. I would also like to thank, on my behalf, the former government as well as the current government, all ministers and ministers and President Janez Janša for his work so far, and for the great courage you have expressed in putting forward your proposal for ratification into the National Assembly and thus have passed the ice in the European Union. This is a very big action and a very big action will be taken on our part if we accept this ratification. But let me also address Europeans and Europeans on my behalf. All those who are sceptics at the time of the adoption of the European Constitution, please follow the Republic of Slovenia and this National Assembly and, with as few problems as possible, help to adopt the European Constitution as possible. Also in order to show small nations such as Slovenia that on May 1st you have made serious and small nations equal to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Rupar. I'm just asking if Mr. Pike has been reported to the floor? [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate. Since the parent working body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. Anybody want to explain their voice? Grims, Versnik, Kovachich. Anyone else? Gulic, Pike. Does anyone want to speak on behalf of the parliamentary group first? Mr. Kovacich. Anyone else? On behalf of the parliamentary group, only Mr Kovacic would like to speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, all present. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that today's ratification of the Treaty of Constitution for Europe for us, for Slovenia, is a historic event similar to the one when Slovenia adopted its own constitution. Although some Eurosceptics fear us this time, as well as at the European Union's accession referendum, and point to the negative consequences that the adoption of the Constitutional Treaty would have caused us, we are convinced, however, that these are unfounded fears that have not yet been confirmed. On the contrary. All countries that have already joined the European Union before Slovenia, in particular those that have not exactly been the most developed, have experienced strong economic and other developments since their accession to the European Union. Among them is most certainly Luxembourg, one of the most developed countries today and also has the highest standard per capita in Europe. Ireland has also experienced similar developments. Of the countries that were among the less developed European countries before joining the European Union, Portugal has also experienced an inconceivable economic dimension and progress since its entry. The experience of other countries is quite contrary to the claims of doubters. Therefore, the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty, which will make it possible for all Member States to enter and enter the world market more effectively, should not worry us. However, if, in the future, when the Constitutional Treaty enters into force after 2006, however, it has shown us to be set up by European constitutions or by any means restricting us and, as a result of these provisions, Slovenia would not be able to exercise its vital interests, the Constitutional Treaty itself, in its own terms, allows for a special procedure to be followed either the revision of the Treaty itself or the development of the system within the Treaty itself to be adapted. However, if this is not the way to achieve what is desired and to find that further cooperation within the European Union is contrary to Slovenia's interests, then, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Treaty, we can at any time also decide on a voluntary exit from the European Union, which is specifically defined by the Treaty. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that a good future awaits us in the future within the European Union and under the jurisdiction of the European Constitution, so the exit thinking will not be up to date, and that is why we will be happy to support today's ratification of the European Constitution in the hope that other countries will do so as soon as possible, including those who will find more serious concerns about some constitutional ones than we do in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Not to be mistaken, the explanation of the voice is not from the front of the booth, but from the seat. Mr Grimes, please, will explain his position or vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of the approval of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, together with the Final Charter. Not only because I am committed to the clear will of all those who voted in the referendum, but also because I am aware of the importance of Europe's finding, at least at this point, a common denominator, and that this charter is a common will for co-operation, cooperation and common faster development in the future, but not only because the act we are deciding today will become, at the very high level of consensus announced, a reference to which we can also return to this national assembly, when we seek optimal solutions for Slovenia whenever we change our constitution or other regulations that require a very high degree of consensus. In this way, I am sure that we will avoid a great deal of over-controversy and, above all, we will be able to direct ourselves from the debate on the process, on the process of debate on the content, and on this point also why a concrete decision, when it has formed this treaty, has been decided by Europe, and I am sure that this debate on content, on the actual problems for Slovenia, will certainly be only good.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Greetings to all present. I am pleased and proud to be here today in this high assembly to be able to vote and decide on the constitution for Europe, which, of course, will be our leadership and guarantee for democracy and for our further democratic development. With this action, we will finally become Europeans, united in a united Europe, and I am sure that this action will be followed by all the other nations that are before this act. I will gladly vote in favour of the European Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Versnick. Mr. Gulic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u100	Dear Mr President, the esteemed assembly, Minister, ministers, guests and, of course, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and citizens of this country! I will vote in favour for many reasons. Slovenia has been entangled in European unity for centuries. Our names, the names of the Slovenians have formed a European culture, built it from the old times, from those anonymous writers of the Brižinski monuments to the pilgrims in Achen through, I don't know, the Middle Ages, Protestantism, romance, Yuri Vega, Herman Potočnik, Noordung, NSK and so on. Therefore, of course, it would be unusual for me to vote against it. There's one more thing. It's also about all those anonymous people who built Europe in the 1960s: Siemens, BMW, from which we learned what this world is and what it was. So it's actually quite unusual to talk about how we don't know where we're going. Since 2003, we have actually known what the constitutional treaty will be and we can co-form it, and I think we are. There's another thing that seems important to me. In essence, the European Constitution does not differ from Slovenia, so it will be quite easy for me to vote in favour and our hymn speaks about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr. Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will vote in favour, especially for the reason that our country was born, the idea of seeing each other once and for all in the society of the European nations has been stressed. That's what happened. Before that, there was a referendum. But I will also vote in favour, because this will meet the expectations of my constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u103	Thank you, Mr. Pike. I'm asking, who did we let go? Anybody else want to explain their voice? Saivitz, Koren. Anyone else? Nobody. Here you go, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Chairman. Government representatives, guests, colleagues, colleagues! It will be an honor for me to be able to support this place tonight and this responsibility entrusted to us by the electorate. Our job is to act in a state-of-the-art way. That key decision on Europe was made a long time ago. About 200 years ago, the Guide wrote, "Kranjc, your land is healthy and I put it right." And I think today is the time when we read statistics in newspapers that 81% of the Slovenians express their satisfaction over the life they live. And this historical act that we are going to adopt today is not a novel, it's not a story to go back to, but it's a textbook on how to act in the future, that we're going to be in politics, and that's our basic task, to satisfy those 19% of people who don't like happiness in Slovenia. Therefore, as a great poet, he concludes, "He seeketh thee, and thy mind is day, and thou shalt find it, if thou wilt not, sleep." I am pleased that Slovenian policy proves that we were mature, both left and right, and that we have managed this logical step and a state-of-the-art move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Saiovec. And Mr. Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u106	Dear Mr. President, a respected government! At the time of preparing for the referendum, I myself became very actively involved in my environment. I have worked hard to make a good contribution to the outcome of the referendum. When we were in the Prešeren Square that Sunday evening, we were having a debate, not even in our dreams, did I think that I would have the opportunity, as a Member today in this great assembly, to have this honour, but also the duty to give my voice for this constitution that we are adopting today. All I'd say is that it's up to all of us, that our work doesn't end today. I think it is our duty to explain, at the time before us, to all those who do not yet know the Constitution enough and things are not yet clear enough, that the people of the European Constitution, which we are adopting today, will come to know and will know that we have decided a good thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-01-SDZ4-Izredna-06.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Root. We're moving on to decision-making. At the same time, I would like to point out that, on the basis of Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, if two thirds of the Members vote for it, that is 60 or more. Please review the cards, if they are correctly inserted, we are voting on the top of the light. [[...]] The vote is under way. [[Let's hear it.]] Dear Members and honourable Members! There are 83 in attendance, 79 in favour, 4 in favour. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 6th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I invite MPs and guests to the courtyard of the great Assembly Hall for a shorter ceremony.
