ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u1	Nice greeting to the representatives of the government, the Ombudsman with his team, you, dear Members and Members, on this last day of our 10th meeting and before the extended weekend! [[...]] This should sound like motivation for today's work. I am officially initiating the continuation of the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Bogdan Barovic, Geza Juban, Dr Slavko Gaber, Villa Rezman until 1300 hours, Dr Mitja Slavinec from 5 p.m., Alojz Sok from 12.00 p.m. on and Villa Trophynik. We're moving to 22. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIONS 10. REVENUE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS FOR THE YEAR 2004 We have 5 hours and 45 minutes to discuss. The 10th periodic report was submitted to the Council by the Ombudsman, and I also give him my word on this occasion. So, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, you have an opportunity to further explain the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members! We have a long, almost six-hour debate on the Ombudsman's 10th annual report. Such a long-awaited time for discussion shows that the concern for the enjoyment of human rights in Slovenia is also your concern, and I am sure that the debate will be fruitful and will further contribute to improving the level of protection of human rights for all citizens and residents in our country. I do not need to stress in particular that the level of respect for human rights in a country is not only a quality of life, but also the most important condition for a secure life, both an individual and a community, because without the protection of human rights we cannot talk about security. I would also like to point out that today's debate is about the state of human rights in 2004, as the Ombudsman has seen, on the basis of the initiatives taken by citizens of Slovenia and other residents. Therefore, the content of the report resulting from the work of all the offices employed, the findings resulting from these initiatives, and the recommendations made by the Ombudsman to the State and other authorities when he saw that something was wrong. The responsibility for the protection of human rights lies primarily with the State and its institutions, at all three branches of the Authority, and it is legislative to adopt laws that respect human rights, to judge in due time in accordance with such laws and to enforce measures that comply with such standards. The Ombudsman, however, is only an institution that controls and warns of possible violations and proposes changes to work where they are needed. Therefore, it cannot and must not work in place of other institutions if they do not do their work properly. I have no intention of accurately presenting the contents of the report, because I am sure that you have all read it accurately. But for an incentive, I'm just going to draw some of the most important conclusions from him. First of all, I can point out that the relationship to the Constitutional Court has improved, since at the end of the year there are only five outstanding decisions left, while the year before that was twice as many. There have also been fewer complaints about problems related to citizenship and foreigners, denationalisation of these so-called war laws. Other problems are more or less recurring and new ones are emerging. It is again important to note the long-term proceedings. This has also been confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights, which has also based its judgment on the Ombudsman's report, which we are particularly proud of, as it shows that the Ombudsman's opinion also takes account of this important international institution. The problem of long-term judicial decision-making is not only, conditionally speaking, within a technical time frame, but the problem is that an irregular court decision often results in a multitude of existential problems. To a worker who has been found illegally dismissed by the court after many years, this decision does not mean anything if the employer has disappeared in the meantime, in a complaint. Nor should children wait years for the decisions of the competent authorities to decide on their rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. If I stay only in these two cases. No one needs a decision too late. The next problems I can list for a short time are the backlog in solving administrative matters at the first and second stages, an unfriendly attitude towards service users, and the rights of children have too little to be protected in accordance with the Convention. In this regard, it is particularly important to mention the rare practice of taking into account the opinion of the child and their participation in the proceedings when it is decided upon. I would like to mention another pressing problem, which is further exacerbated and is also becoming more and more numerous with the Ombudsman. This is a problem of social security, unemployment and the resulting social hardships, supported by housing problems that are still a major problem, and should be taken more seriously by the State and with effective measures and not just verbal readiness. Being poor is not a problem simply because of the lack of material goods. The problem is exacerbated because poverty in a society that celebrates success is further stigmatized, so it becomes poorer than anything else, to be poorer than something bad, even ugly. Poverty in itself constitutes a violation of human dignity, so we must pay particular attention. I am convinced that today's debate on the report, which the government has also largely attached to it, will bring many good ideas for improving the state of human rights in Slovenia, which will be applied by all three branches of government in the coming years for a better life for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The 10th regular report was also addressed by the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, as the parent labour force, and drafted a proposal for recommendations from the National Assembly. That is why I ask the President of the Commission, Master's Minister Potrato, to present this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, the respectable Ombudsman with the deputies, the distinguished representatives of the government, the MPs and the MPs. At its 9th meeting on 5 October and at its 1st meeting on 9 October, on 9th October, the Commission considered the 10th annual report of the Ombudsman for 2004 submitted by the Ombudsman for consideration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 43 of the Law on Human Rights. In addition to the Ombudsman's report published on 15 June in 43 of the Rapporteur of the National Assembly, the members of the Commission received, together with a reference to the opinion and report of the State Attorney's Office, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, and the opinion of the Committee of the National Health Council on the draft recommendations and on 3 October, the Government's opinion on the Ombudsman's report for 2004 and information on the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly adopted on the 9th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2003. The opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia was received by the Commission on 24 October, which is why it was too late to submit its proposals to the recommendations adopted and has therefore not been identified. In a brief supplementary explanation, the Ombudsman has drawn some of the key findings of the 2004 report. Because you just heard his supplementary explanation, I'm not going to take it back. The government's announced representatives were not present at the meeting, so there was no further explanation, but the Ombudsman considered the opinion and information of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as correct, although there was a lack of government opinion on some other areas contained in the annual report, in particular as regards the assessment of human rights protection. The representative of the Supreme Court considered that the courts could do much more to remedy delays and improve the quality of court decisions, in particular by better organisation, greater determination and ensuring the concentration of proceedings. A climate of trust and a positive relationship between authorities, the public, the media and politicians would certainly help improve the work of the courts. A representative of the Attorney General's Office said that in 2004, 32% of the cases were resolved by means of a settlement, a delayed prosecution and a criminal order. Particular attention was paid to the duration of criminal proceedings and to inform citizens of the stage of individual proceedings, as well as to the equal treatment of all cases and the unification of law enforcement policies. In particular, the Advocate General drew attention to previous procedures and to efforts to amend legislation in order to become a proposal for a settlement of the procedural assumption. As a reasoned opinion, however, he assessed the Ombudsman's finding of the time when the parties received a response from the State Defence Office and ensured that the State Defence Office would inform the future party of the reasons why its role had not yet been resolved. The representative of the Bar did not agree with the Ombudsman's finding that the work of the Disciplinary Authorities of the Bar is ineffective. The Chairman of the Health Committee said that the Committee, as an interested working body, had only adopted 8 recommendations and had proposed that the Commission should include them in its proposals for admission to the National Assembly. In the debate, members of the Commission discussed that children's rights were still not adequately protected, that the number of reported and reported cases of violence against children was increasing and that the threshold of tolerance to all forms of violence in society was decreasing. The debate also touched on the problem of the use of mother tongue in a public place. It was pointed out that the number of initiatives in the field of ethics in 2004 had increased dramatically, and the Government had given little attention to this chapter in its opinion. In the debate, it was clear to the Ombudsman that he was paying more attention to some initiatives than others. For petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, the Commission took note of the 10th Annual Report of the Ombudsman and held a debate on the content of the report and adopted, after discussion, a proposal of 31 recommendations proposed by the National Assembly on the basis of Articles 272 and 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Now it is the turn of the government to say, on this occasion, because there are only seven representatives and representatives, that the time together is 10 minutes. So if you want more, then you have to divide these 10 minutes for the opening presentation. As I see it, it is the intention of Secretary of State Marolt to speak. Please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At the time of its consideration of the 10th annual report of the Ombudsman, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up a large-scale opinion presenting the shortcomings already addressed, which the Ombudsman has pointed out in his report, as well as ways to resolve open issues. The Government's opinion also contains a description of the measures taken by the Government to address the problem under consideration, and also mentions the planned measures to improve the situation mentioned by the Ombudsman in his report. In addition, the Government's view also provides a broader presentation of the problem from the point of view of the competent ministries and government services. We have tried to draw up a comprehensive and uniform report, and we have also tried to follow the structure of the Ombudsman's report in its structure, making it easier to compare the views or to identify which of the irregularities mentioned in the report have been eliminated and which procedures and measures have been introduced for their early resolution. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also provided information to the National Assembly on the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at the time of consideration of the 9th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2003, where the responses of individual ministries and government services are collected for each point. Since the competent ministries will later provide a more detailed overview of each area, the opening presentation would mention only some of the measures taken by the Government, some of the measures planned by the Ombudsman and some of the procedures or changes that have been made in order to eliminate all of the measures cited by the Ombudsman in his report. If I touch only some areas that the government has specifically addressed to them. Minority rights. The Government, through the Nationality Office, is actively monitoring the exercise of the constitutional rights of minorities and reminds all competent institutions of their consistent implementation. The problem of the Roma. This year, at its 5th regular meeting, on 6 January 2005, the government ordered the Nationality Office to start drafting a special law on the Roma community and thus to undertake the preparation of a basic Roma law. The deadline for adoption in the National Assembly is May 2006. The Republic of Slovenia is constantly working to provide adequate means for local communities to solve the Roma problem, but they often do not take advantage of it. There are several cases listed in the Government's opinion. On May 2005, the representatives of the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights, Sir Parauzio and Ignazio Perez, visited Slovenia. In reviewing the primary school of Bršljin, efforts at all levels have been positively assessed for the maximum integration of Roma children in primary school. They also stressed that they did not detect any hostility towards the Roma. With regard to the protection of personal data, the Government considers that by adopting the new Personal Data Protection Act, which entered into force on 1.1.2005, the problems raised by the Ombudsman are largely solved. The law fully implemented Directive 95-46 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. Mental health was already discussed at a meeting of the Committee of the National Health Council. However, the whole issue relating to the drafting of the Law on Mental Health and the amendment of the Law on Unfair Procedure is given in the opinion of the Government itself and can be presented in more detail in the general debate by the competent Ministry of Health. With regard to the Ombudsman's allegations of a large number of outstanding files and judicial backlogs in Slovenian courts, the Government explains the progress of cases in 2004. The Ministry of Justice is also actively involved in the preparation of a national reform programme to achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and the direction of economic and social reforms to increase economic growth and employment, while proposing a series of measures to ensure greater efficiency of the judiciary or to remedy judicial backlogs. With regard to police procedures, the government considers that the Ministry of the Interior has taken a step forward in ensuring quality police work in procedures with citizens, and explains the resolution of complaints in the so-called conciliation process. The Government clarified the specific statements of the Ombudsman in the fields of education and education, environment and space, housing, pension and disability insurance. With regard to the issue of domestic violence and the issue of the explicit prohibition of corporal punishment, the government explains that the Government's work programme plans to prepare a bill on protection against domestic violence and a proposal for a family code, which will address, inter alia, the issue of the Ombudsman. So much for some of the measures described more extensively in the Government's opinion. Today's meeting of the National Assembly is attended by representatives of ministries and government services whose contributions are covered by the Government's opinion. They will also be able to present specific areas in detail, explain specific cases to which the Ombudsman has been alerted in the report and to which members of the National Assembly will be alerted in today's debate, and the measures they have taken to minimise the problems that the Ombudsman is alerting to in his annual report as soon as possible or as far as possible. Finally, let me just mention that the government is taking all the Ombudsman's warnings seriously and that we will try to achieve that we will respond even more quickly to all the irregularities, violations and shortcomings detected in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, respectable Ombudsman, Mr Hanžek, representatives of the Government. From a rather comprehensive report, which has been transmitted to us or we represent ourselves as a parliamentary group, we want to define in particular the retired part of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, to an older generation of people, who in his report also described and presented in a large package, Mr Hanžek, the Ombudsman, our democratic country. We are particularly interested in the state of people, the search for legal rights, the search for only those in the area of receiving pensions, its payments at the time of employment in pension and disability insurance. We are interested in complaints and, at the same time, findings on employers' payments, contributions to the current pension entitlement fund. This has, of course, been shown mainly in the bad record in the wake of which there are major problems, because today people cannot exercise the rights they belong to. The relevant ministry was, of course, informed, but the problem is being solved too slowly. There are also many violations of the patient's rights in the report. Many complaints convinced us right from the elderly into traces of user services, in the wake of long waiting periods for operational health interventions. Many complaints stem from the so-called alternative medicines, the right to dental procedures, poor housing in hospitals, the violence against the elderly, the violence in prisons, police interventions, the exploitation of older generations than the relatives and employers themselves. The report specifically addresses protection and care. Question: "Who should be the payer of such services?" Every single person, country, congregation or family? The report also showed that there are few individuals who can treat older ones if they want to. Sources of income, perhaps through voluntary work, through the Red Cross, Karitas, the Retired Society, or any other humanitarian organization. Our opinion is particularly about the need to highlight specific advisory centres, since the elderly are not often found to have anyone to turn to. The findings show that in the Republic of Slovenia there are not enough educational centres for the older generation of people. The lack of additional creative work offered is insufficient for inclusion in social events. We therefore believe that, as a coalition, we will advocate for the best possible autumn of life for the elderly, by allowing for greater building of homes and various activities offered, hiking, excursions, professional workshops. Through the Ombudsman's 2004 report, we can see that the Ombudsman's work is quite tiring, diverse and respectful. The area of irregularity and complaints is very large. In our thinking, however, we support the opinion issued by the Health Committee as an interested working body, its conclusions and opinions, as well as the recommendations made by the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and the same opportunities as the labour force. The 2004 report of the Ombudsman, Mr Hanžk, will be welcomed. For all these reasons, we will also support the recommendations made by the working body to that report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Bogomir Zammernik has the following word on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Ombudsman, representative and representatives of the government, I wish a good day to all of you. I can agree with the conclusion expressed by the speaker that the work carried out by the Ombudsman is difficult, very diverse, sometimes difficult. I would therefore like to begin by congratulating the people who have prepared such an extensive report. Of course, I also congratulate those who today have somehow jubilee 10th report alerting the Ombudsman to something and have improved the things the Ombudsman has warned about in his ten-year reports. I am pleased that the government, which has been operating for one year, has taken the warnings seriously, but now it has come to my mind first, a thing that has been somewhat long-standing as a major problem, that is the decision-making of the second-degree body. Surely those of you who have been here for a long time, colleagues and colleagues, will remember the warnings we have received, perhaps you too have been in the sent offices, the incomprehensible deadlines and the unreasonablely long answers to the second-degree authorities of various ministries. And the Minister of Human Rights' warning in this direction was that it would be good to somehow get this thing under one wing, under one roof, to say so. And the Ombudsman notes that the establishment of the Ministry of Public Administration is a real solution that leads towards a better solution to this problem. Nevertheless, despite this commendation, there will be no more, at least not on my part, I could by no means get rid of the river that defines madness. The real definition of insanity is that you do the same thing all the time in the same way and expect different results. For some things that are repeated over ten years in the report, I cannot get rid of this feeling that we are always doing the same thing in the same way and expect different results. I'm afraid that can't be done. I wondered what it meant when the Ombudsman wrote in his report that some of the steps had been positively taken, that the adoption of post-discrimination legislation and the establishment of an institution for the same opportunities were okay, but that the results of the elections indicated deterioration. Dear Sir of Human Rights, I would very much like to explain this sentence in any way that the results of last year's elections indicate a deterioration in the situation in any area in this society. What's worse now? The problems I mentioned earlier, which are repeated from year to year, are, at least according to our assessment, the most present in the field of justice. We have heard before from a government representative, somehow the government is trying, and I also have positive experiences, as before, that if you are as a Member of the Government, or if the Ombudsman has given sufficient constant attention to some outstanding problems that have not been completely ignored and things have begun to be resolved. This also shows the government's response and attitude to the Ombudsman's warnings. However, nothing has happened to the warnings on the side of the judiciary, judicial backlogs, unreasonable deadlines and things that are so painful and so difficult that a person is sometimes appalled when he receives specific cases in this regard. Many were also listed in this 2004 report. Unfortunately, compared to any of the previous years, they are quite similar. In order to be concrete, that I will not only speak in general, I think there is an urgent need to draw attention to certain specific things that still affect people in some way. Especially when it comes to, unfortunately, it's happening for the kids. When we push their way through our judicial system during the gentlest growing-up period. Can you imagine what would happen to a man who, as a child, had already received the seal of a court mill? It's hard for me to imagine or know some of the people who've been getting this, and I would never want any of us here to have the same experience that these people have. That the judge of February 2003 - this is what the report says - has broken up the procedure in one process of examining paternity and deciding on maintenance and in the other, a refund application. That with this - as the report puts it - he had apparently increased his perpetuity and made two out of one of the writings. Of course, that's the way it sounds on a bureaucratic level, but there's a child in the back, there's a mother, there's a father, there's a kinship, and then everyone has a kind of seal on it. It is interesting to see the District Court ruling in Celje in a dispute over the award of a child. In the proceedings, the court has appointed a third expert in psychology, and that is to say the same task, to determine which of the parties has more appropriate qualities and better conditions for education, etc., although it has been found at the outset that the production of another - it is said that the second - was unnecessary, pointless and harmful. But that's how we do it or do it. Unfortunately, there are many worse cases of this kind. The biggest problem I see in this is that when Parliament says that it is the legislative branch of power to warn whether or not it is trying to point out these problems, it is insinuated and accused that it is unacceptable interference with the work of the judiciary. Please, I don't take such insinuations in advance. I don't want to interfere with the work of the judiciary, but I want to say if anything's wrong. This week, as you have noticed, I did not advertise in the debates that went in the direction of religious conflicts and have been repeatedly, and I think from here on out, from this part of the hall, Christ is also mentioned. Look, Christ also got angry at the temple when the money changers set up, and we didn't condemn him for it. The money changers' booths didn't go to that temple, and he got angry. But he was consciously angry. And I want this National Assembly to be consciously angry with the state of justice. Not that we want to point at anyone with a finger, but you're bad. I'm sure there are a lot of people in court who are honest, good, who want good. But we're making a little bit of an excuse for bad legislation, which is us, a little bit of an excuse for, I don't know what, for enforcement, but a little bit of a legislative one. And no one is to blame for the rubble of a pension, for example. District Court Judge - I am reading from the means of public information that there will be no mistake - in Ljubljana Martina Lepuš Hajtnik, I have read the full name perfectly, signed a decision two months ago on the continuation of the execution against I.S. and J. A. from Ljubljana, because some society is supposed to be owed 490,000 tolars. These two don't have to do anything. It was a mistake to change the name. But the court mills grind no matter what is true or what is not, and the complaint did not hold back the execution, so nothing can keep the absurd court decisions of Slovenian courts. This was published not long ago. Did something happen? Has there been any civil initiative and raised a voice? I'm sorry, it's either earlier or what I'm going to say next, worse than someone telling me to give my genitals a review. It's bad. Once behind this pay phone, I was alerting myself to inadmissibility. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u11	Mr Zammernik, I must warn you, this part is intended to present the views or views of the Group of Members, not to debate. The debate will continue. I know that this time is also going on at a common time of debate, but nevertheless, a presentation of views.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll take your warning. However, I think that the matter is so serious that parliamentary groups can also talk about it. Because I'm seeing my colleague Zalokar. I'm grateful for the letter you sent us recently by e-mail. He's talking about the person who wrote the book in the self-publishment of thousands of copies. Some have read this book and have sued this person and have been sentenced to withdraw all books from the market and have done so. But somewhere there was a book, and I think in the World of Books that wasn't removed, and that's why the plaintiffs who read this book filed a lawsuit against the author of this book. And now, because of this book he's found, he has to pay $8 million plus interest, which is about. Ten million tolars. She says, but she can always find somewhere else, but she couldn't look for thousands of books all over Slovenia by herself. And each book will bring a $10 million sum for the words in the book. If this is normal, and if this is not worth the attention of the Group of Members, then I do not know what is worth the attention of the Group of Members. And you know what she writes in this letter for which I thank you once again: "But the fact that I will have all the property is nothing compared to the fact that this land has bent me mentally. Nothing in this world, no confession, no good word in me will be able to lift up the joy of pride that I had in my heart. Which one of us could express herself as well as she did. You can see she's a professional. No other thing will be able to lift the glow in her heart. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now note that we must not talk about this. Maybe I don't have a mandate to speak like that either, but I took that right. For respected colleagues and colleagues, we must be aware that a person cannot be completely happy if there are people around him who are hurt and cannot help themselves. And that we will help them because we want to, not because we would be required to do so by laws, by-laws, officially refined, and I don't know why. But that's because we want to. Because someone who does something out of conviction is stronger than 99 who do something for any benefit. And people always have two reasons to do something. One's a good reason, one's a real reason. Good reasons are the rules of procedure, good reasons are the rules we have adopted. What, though, are the real reasons why people put us here? But we are because of them, because they are not because of us. The same applies to judges. Judges, once again, I'm not talking about the whole thing, but some of them are their own purpose. They divide their minds into doubles to raise their productivity. That's the kind of guy that needs to be driven out. And if no one else in this booth can say anything, I'll say it. I'm closing my presentation slowly, and this is all I'd say. What I'm about to say is I don't have the mandate of a parliamentary group, but Gandi's great thinker has said whatever you do is irrelevant. But it's important that you do. The actions count. The important thing will be what I say, but I will. I have already spoken to some colleagues and I call upon all of you, I stress, again, I speak like Mirko Zammernik, a boy burning from farmers at home if you want, like Mirko Zammernik I invite you and I give you a public initiative and please sign this public initiative. However, it is written: on the basis of information that more than 700 complaints from Slovenian citizens, more than two-thirds of whom concern the issue of trial within a reasonable time period, are referred to as Article 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the fundamental freedoms ratified by this State Assembly more than ten years ago, and the fact that, among the complainants, the former Member, I did not deliberately refer to his case, as you will say, this is based on friendly bases, cases that I do not know about. And that, among them, this Member, who complains both on the basis of Article 6 and the violations of Article 10 of the above-mentioned Convention, is also invited by the Slovenian courts and their Presidents and Judges to respect consistently the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which would significantly reduce the number of Slovenian complainants, which is now very high compared to the other Member States parties to this Convention. One also points to the financial consequences of such a large number of complaints that will burden the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the coming years. I stress that I have deliberately said this as Mirko Zammernik because I want someone from the opposition to sign this as well. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Majda Shirca, who will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u14	Dear government officials, respectable guardians, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The Ombudsman says that he is concerned that many questions are raised year after year, which he recalls in his reports, are mainly about problems with citizenship, denationalisation, judicial proceedings and child rights protection issues, if I raise only some. It points to Kafkayan bureaucratic routes, where institutions sometimes spend more time looking for excuses, why they are not responsible for solving a particular problem than they would have used to solve the problem. So, on the one hand, the Ombudsman in his reports speaks of questions repeating and emerging with the same or similar problems, and on the other hand, there are new problems and it is no wonder that new or even deeper problems are put into perspective in 2004 the question of the ethics of the public word, whether it is to express the intolerance of some politicians in terms of attempts at open and hidden discrimination, whether it is an expression in some media. Interestingly, the government's response to this Ombudsman's warning, which is very, very stressed, is an extreme sceptic, so to speak, without comment. The ethic of the public word is abolished by the government with seven flatlines. On this issue, the government is defined by the following words: as regards an impatient response, I quote, a certain part of the political structures when solving the issue of the planned construction of the Islamic cultural centre in Ljubljana, we believe that the final document of the Vienna meeting of OSC members should be respected and the text quoted. That's all. The impatience with political discourse that the Ombudsman has also experienced in discussions over the construction of the religious and cultural center of Jehovah’s Witnesses is more than problematic. A number of times, intolerance was hiding behind technical problems and other causes, such as land inappropriateness and the like, and messages were intolerable and exclusive. We all have in mind, for example, a poster with a crossed mosque that appeared in public. The Ombudsman, not just the guardian, notes that in these and similar cases the government office for religious communities has done bad. Let me add that not only did the building of the Islamic religious centre, the head of the religious office and at the same time the Councilman of the Municipality of Ljubljana responded with silence and left the flow that others were feeding. The Ombudsman would also have found that by knowing the debates at the city meetings. It is also worrying that the non-response of the Office for Religious Communities, the Ombudsman says, has given a number of warnings to prepare criteria for the provision of State aid to religious communities. And how does the government respond to these warnings? For he says that the office, as a government service, does not have the authority to finance religious communities differently than they do, so the government should make a decision. Of course that's true, but the office is part of the government, and it's not civil society. Impatience was evident even before the elections. This proved to be particularly true in relation to the so-called deleted. Remember in 2004 and how convertible this topic was. Today's gone. This topic, also pointed out by the European Commissioner for Human Rights when he visited Slovenia and, by the way, it was not resolved in 2004 and it appears that it will not be resolved in 2005, as it is said to be over in the years. If, last year, the Ombudsman wrote that there has been no comprehensive recovery of problems in solving the Roma problem and that people often see solutions in increased police surveillance, today we can announce the 2005 report. We will deal with it in a year, and we know that this will be even less tolerant on this subject. Why? Recently, police in a Roma settlement carried out a sharp and unannounced police raid not to say a demonstration of police power, a repressive force, where, at least as reported by the media, they even raised their hands above their children. Are they going to help them smoke in the future? The problem of collective protection of minorities, which is not defined by the Constitution, is also increasingly being highlighted. It is mainly members of the peoples of the former republics of Yugoslavia. Financial assistance, which is mainly aimed at supporting their societies or maintaining their culture, may be too weak in a society that swears to coexist in diversity. It is useful and important, especially in the part covered by the Ministry of Culture. It is also appropriate to look for other ways, so the Ombudsman concludes. The Ombudsman also considers that the problems encountered in admitting people to a psychiatric hospital or social institution or in being there are too little important for politics to deal seriously with them. Warnings about the radical introduction of liberal market relations in the residential area and, consequently, about the poor situation of tenants are also very serious. We may also be concerned about the rise in sexual harassment in the workplace, as we will discuss it this afternoon. Especially since people are afraid that they will lose their job, in fact, they cannot or do not know where to turn and if those who are not in the public sector are turning to the Ombudsman, but only this one can recommend solutions, and the question is how many of them can be cured given that they are anonymous applications. If I turn to the recommendations that we have and continue with the other problems that the report raises in the belief that you know them well and, as I have heard in part today, you also support them in your parliamentary groups. In short, if I turn to the recommendations we have on the table that come from the various lives of people, I can say that some can be remedied by amended legislation, other than compliance with existing legislation. Thirdly, and perhaps this point is the most important, awareness of people, which is undoubtedly also affected by the work of the guardian. The fourth can cure the welfare of society and so on. Perhaps a number of the recommendations that have been made are viewed with skepticism, if they are constantly repeating one and the same conclusions. And to simply move our conscience with this direction, it can be that he holds to it at times. It may be that similar recommendations will appear next year. But I'm sure there'll be some sort of problem that'll be remedied. The guardian's report is one of his most powerful tools. And our recommendation is one of our strengths to use these tools actively. There is no doubt that this report goes into the nose many times, for every time a person trembles in the symptom more than just a subconscious, his conscience must also move. We will support the recommendations, both proposed and supplemented, but we have also supported the Commission's own recommendation, which the Commission has voted on, because it is a matter of different views on how to deal with the problem deleted. 18 The recommendation, as you have before you, is absolutely unacceptable for the Liberal Democracy Group. It is about the fact that the Government and the Ministry of the Interior are to prepare a proposal for a constitutional law to regulate the situation of the deleted, of course, far from seeing the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia see an opportunity in this solution, or our recommendation has gone in the direction of respecting the decision of the Constitutional Court, and I fear that such a solution as the government or the ruling coalition actually proposes by voting is probably incompatible with our view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you, too. It's mag. Majda Potter on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. The Group of Social Democrats has paid special attention to and responded to his warnings through the Ombudsman's reports on a number of occasions. Therefore, for a decade the functioning of this institution is certainly an opportunity for at least a panoramic view of its existence in society. This is certainly an opportunity to reflect on the appropriateness and scope of the powers conferred on the Ombudsman by the law, and we believe that, within the framework of the legal framework, this institution has proved to be an important instrument for detecting the problems faced primarily by individuals and the most vulnerable groups. Chapter Data on the Ombudsman's work indicates two levels of action. This is dealing with individual reporting of alleged human rights violations of an individual at first level and the work of a systemic, promotional and preventive nature at second level. Both are exposed to a critical evaluation of the Ombudsman's functioning, with a level of satisfaction at first level due to expectations that often exceed the Ombudsman's powers. However, it certainly does not show disregard for the Ombudsman’s fundamental conclusion that the relationship of institutions to him is improving. This also means strengthening awareness of the responsibility of individuals and institutions for the state of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. It seems that the second level of the guardian's action is considered more critical for the public, and we also associate occasional requests for the guardian's resignation in public, or even the unnecessaryness of this institution and its termination. It would be interesting to draw further information on how the Ombudsman and his activities were seen by the Government in the 2006 and 2007 draft budget. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that, in particular, the awareness of individuals about their rights and the rights of others, the education of people on ways to remedy injustices or ways to prevent violations, and the promotion of the general public, taking into account the diversity underlying the creation of a more tolerant society, is an indispensable component of the Ombudsman's action, because we agree with him, the assessment has already been repeatedly said that, I quote, indifference to people's problems should represent a majority or a minority, still one of the biggest problems of this society, the end of the line. That is why we believe that his activities related to education and promotion of human rights are extremely important and we support the establishment of a department that will deal with various forms of discrimination and intolerance. We also observe that the acceptance of different and different minorities is very bad, often linked to prejudice and intolerance, and we believe that the majority is primarily responsible for maintaining dignity and decent survival of minorities. Therefore, it is difficult to accept the obvious that a minority is impatient if it expects patience and equal rights from most. Of course, we understand patience as the ability to accept differences and the decency to associate with them. In the view of the Ombudsman, the attitude towards minorities is the most noticeable problem of the past year, and we are also submitting a supplement to the recommendation concerning rights in the Constitution of non-mentioned ethnic minorities. This recommendation was not supported in the parent’s working body. We hope, however, that there will be support now that there has been sufficient time to read the government's opinion, as the recommendation proposed is not inconsistent with it. We also agree with the Ombudsman's finding that we cannot be satisfied with the situation, not because the number of violations found would have increased so rapidly, but because we perceive the recurring problems that we should be, and some of them could have been solved if there were political will. Here too, the legislative branch of power is not without responsibility. Therefore, the examination of the special reports of the Ombudsman is eloquent evidence. Two specific reports have been lost since the consideration and adoption of the recommendations. One remains without a recommendation, and the latest information suggests that the law on the prevention of domestic violence cannot be expected in a short time because the government has decided to draw up a strategy first. However, the question is whether a special marriage will even seem necessary to her. Despite the Ombudsman's warnings of violence against children, warnings of violence against women, and despite the fact that the prevention of domestic violence will be a priority during the Austrian Presidency of the European Union. We are disappointed in the Social Democrats Group because the Ombudsman's initiative to consider explicitly banning and corporal punishment of children at the level of systematic resolution of domestic violence is not supported. Although Slovenia has already received warnings from the Council of Europe, the European Commission for Social Rights has not yet done so in its legislation. The largest coalition party has deleted this from the recommendations and the adopted dictatorship is very loose and tautological. We also believe that a general campaign should be launched to condemn violence, to reduce the threshold of the current excessive tolerance for violence. In doing so, we could imitate those we often set as examples, namely the Scandinavian countries, where the media’s most recognized people from culture, sport, politics, science and other aspects of life are also involved in such a campaign. A slightly improved attitude towards the Constitutional Court, a true guardian, is perceived by the fact that only five decisions have yet to be fully implemented. This cannot hide the fact that two of them are particularly sensitive. We still do not have a mental health law, nor do we have a law that, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, would solve the problems that have been deleted. The recommendation referring to the constitutional law does not, otherwise, reflect the expectations of social Democrats. We do not argue that the constitutional law would not be able to find solutions that would be in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, but that would require the political will of the ruling coalition. Or he can do it, he'll show time, because the drafting of the law is in the government's work plan. In particular, I would like to draw attention to that part of the Ombudsman's report that discusses the acute problems in housing. The Social Democrats have always been aware of the Ombudsman's warnings. Unfortunately, however, our comments have not been taken into account, with the problems of renters in denationalised apartments in the first place. As the right to a home is a fundamental human right, we are very concerned that attempts to alert people to housing problems have failed in this mandate. Thus, the coalition opposed the conclusions and recommendations drawn up by the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities when it addressed housing issues and decided to monitor the issue only. It also rejected the recommendation in the Ombudsman's report. Therefore, the Social Democrats' Group is proposing an amendment to the recommendations and expects it to receive support. How else can I predict that by taking appropriate measures, the government will allow young people, and we add, and the poor to come home? We therefore support the Ombudsman's initiative to make changes to housing law by also taking into account the social and demographic component of housing provision. However, the opinion of the Socialist Group of Members concludes with another burning problem concerning the most vulnerable group of citizens and citizens of our country, which is a child and the problem of non-payment of subsistence. It appears that the duration of the exercise of the right to compensation would be extended until the end of the schooling period. In the Socialist Group of Members, we believe that, for those who have been violated their rights, there are not only well-intentioned recommendations that are more than 9 a.m. on the 10th report, but that the 11th report will be able to read that some long-term problems have been resolved. Above all, the carelessness of people’s problems is reduced both in individuals and in the country’s institutions. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats has tabled additions to the recommendations. All stem from the findings of the Ombudsman and from our belief that majority support will open the way for our complements to resolve another, long years of unresolved problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Franc Capucer on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President, guests, Members and Members of Parliament! A comprehensive and jubilee 10th annual report of the Ombudsman for 2004 is before us. Despite its scope, in the view of New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party in some of its segments is weak and does not reflect certain violations of fundamental human rights in certain areas, but in particular does not address certain phenomena that are a permanent part of our system and eventually become part of our system. Unfortunately, the country's institutions and the Ombudsman's institution are overreacting to these developments, which is only fuelling the perpetrators. At the presentation of his annual report on the working body, the Ombudsman drew some emphasis from the 10th Annual Report for 2004. The report shows that the protection of human rights in Slovenia is not worrying, but it is still not possible to say that the human rights situation is fully satisfactory. The Ombudsman's reasoning is that the number of requests for the Ombudsman's intervention in the field of citizenship and denationalisation has been reduced. It is to see progress in solving the Roma problem that it is to see progress in solving the issues covered by the Ministry of Environment and Space. As still hot and not sufficiently resolved, the Ombudsman points out in particular the unregulated area of mental health and the comprehensive regulation of the conditions and procedures for admission to a psychiatric hospital or social institution. Then the next of the irregularities to be addressed as soon as possible is the ethics of the public word and the phenomenon that politicians often take the lead in expressing intolerance to different minorities. Then there are problems in the area of justice, where for many years and even in 2004 there are violations of the right to a trial within a reasonable time. In doing so, it should be noted that the duration of the proceedings is unacceptable in cases where a decision on the fate of children is taken. The Ombudsman also draws attention to the unfair treatment of the users of judicial and legal services. The Commission responded to the Ombudsman's report on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities by adopting 31 recommendations in response to the Ombudsman's finding. In particular, there are broad recommendations in the field of administrative matters and in the field of health care and health insurance. In Novi Slovenije - We expect the Christian People's Party to be able to resolve denationalisation issues, correct injustices and deletes more quickly and therefore welcome all government activities in this area. The Ombudsman's report was also responded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with extensive and thorough answers, showing some of the solutions to the problems the Ombudsman wrote in his annual report. For some measures, the government has also committed additional financial resources to the 2005 budget balance. In order to address some of the problems described in the Ombudsman's report, however, it allocates financial resources to the 2006 and 2007 budgets. Of course, many of the problems mentioned in the Ombudsman’s report can be solved without an increase in additional funds. Only consistent implementation of legislation and some good will on both sides, by the complainant and by the one who is supposed to cause injustice is sufficient. The Government's positive attitude towards the work of the Ombudsman and his office is also reflected in the Ombudsman's proposals for the 2006 and 2007 budget. Unfortunately, in the 2004 Ombudsman's report in Novi Slovenije - the Christian People's Party, as I mentioned at the outset, we miss the treatment of some violations of fundamental human rights in certain areas, and in particular some of the phenomena that are becoming permanent in our society. The Ombudsman shall be long-term and wide-ranging about the rights of the educated youth and the rights of their parents and the violations of their rights. Very little or nothing, however, is found in his report about the violation of the rights of teachers, the relationship of children and their parents to teachers and school workers. Such a situation is reflected by security guards, not only in secondary schools, but also in primary schools. These guards must protect employees and students in schools from uneducated and often even armed students and students, unfortunately as well as parents. In view of the trends, it is soon possible to expect security guards even in kindergartens. In Novi Slovenija, the Ombudsman and his team would be expected to visit some such schools with security guards and find out the reasons for this. We expect him to draw attention to this problem in his own words and, above all, to the problem of school violence on a permanent basis. The fact is that most of the reasons for violence in school is the inappropriate upbringing of parents who do not know their children, or they do not want to raise sense of community and some normal attitude toward older and assumed ones. The environment, too, should be a broader social environment, an environment of friends and peers, or an environment of a family where everything is allowed, without responsibility, regardless of the consequences, most often encourages a schooling youth to commit such violence. In New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party we support children's education on their rights, as proposed by the Ombudsman. Of course, it is necessary to place children's rights alongside the obligations arising from these rights. The next burning area, which is not specifically processed in the Ombudsman's report or perhaps overlooked, is hate speech at online chat rooms and tangled forums. Not only hate speech to strangers, but also, and above all, hate speech and hustling speech to other thinkers, especially believers. He was already talking about the enemy speech against foreigners this year. I do not recall, however, that the Ombudsman would speak to believers, especially to the believers of the Catholic Church, who is most often transferred from online chat rooms and forums to graffiti through churches and concrete acts of intolerance to believers, saying that the Ombudsman would condemn these acts. I didn't see that. The burning of the cross and the silence of church bells are for some just artistic installations. Moreover, such artistic facilities are even recorded, the rat in Mary's lap is the free expression of the artist we must allow him. But it's not an insult to the feelings of believers. I do not recall the Ombudsman reacting as strongly and quickly as he responded to an hate speech against members of the former common country on the Internet. This confirms me in the belief that the Ombudsman uses not some of the different criteria in dealing with violations of the rights and feelings of believers, even though they are members of the largest religious community in Slovenia. There is more than too much to discuss in the Ombudsman's report. I wanted only to draw attention to some things that New Slovenia believes - the Christian People's Party has not processed in this report. We expect the Ombudsman to speak in the 2005 report on this issue. The Ombudsman's report with the recommended recommendations of the mother's working body will be supported in Novi Slovenije - the Christian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Meanwhile, we were joined by young visitors and their teachers on the Tribunal, whom I warmly welcome in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, or briefly in the Slovenian Parliament. However, we continue to present the views of the parliamentary groups, and Mr Brenčič is next on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President, I very much welcome all the present and, of course, also our young adventurers on the balcony. The 2004 report of the Ombudsman does not differ much from the 2003 report, which is not encouraging, according to its content and presentation and the coverage of individual areas and actors and the scope of human rights violations. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we ask whether this is caused by the unwillingness or powerlessness of the state authorities, that in each report the current issues, which in their content mean violations of human rights and personal freedoms, are not resolved and that the situation is not improved in the 2004 report as well. Or perhaps the Ombudsman's approach to the preparation and submission of the report is as much as anyone might want, but that is to say that it should be a strong negative reflection of society, even though perhaps the actual situation is better, which we doubt and think is not the case in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We believe, however, that, on the question of all the intertwined and diverse intolerances, which are so many times mentioned, should be called things more specific than, for example, which media and which politicians sow impatience and individual intolerance in a formal manner and also specifically recorded, because the field of intolerance cannot be blurred and through this tool for abuse, irrespective of its foretaste in abuse. One fundamental reason for the fact that in the individual segments of the report, the situation of human rights violations from year to year, and if you also want from the mandate to mandate, what does not substantially change for the better, is not so much in the absence of individual legal standards as it is in non-compliance with and non-implementation of those through an imprudent crowd of state offices and in all the under-responsible awareness of the individual presidency that they are, by their position, with their work and the attitude towards resolution in the report of the Ombudsman, responsible for the violation of human rights, are obliged to give an example to the Office as a whole, and this applies not least to the judicial authorities, as well as to law enforcement authorities, including inspections. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that this picture and situation will only slightly change the law on public servants, including through the approach to establishing a career office. A very similar understanding of the mission that comes to leaders, not only in the public sector, but also in the real sector, should also be changed, because without it the law and the resolution will not produce better results. Not on the issue of equal opportunities between sexes either. Leaders, leaders and also officials should do much more than our social practice, in compliance with all standards and agreed upon, in terms of their working model - what I do not want to happen or happen to me personally, I must not allow it to happen to my subordinate or also to my neighbor and, finally, to what we judge. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the Ombudsman's report. We are fully aware that, in the event of a clear lack of accountability in our society, the report in the series of segments will not make much difference for 2005 as well as in terms of finding a change in the situation for the better, with a focus on the justice segment. On the basis of some of the priorities and measures adopted by the Government, the Ombudsman's 2006 report will finally have to draw only a few more encouraging conclusions; otherwise those who have this right under our Constitution will be judged, of course, by each vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. As a last resort, I invite Vice-President Pečet to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, the Ombudsman, Mr Hanžek, does not fulfil his mission. Allow me to base my words on some of the words that Mr Hanžek said in one of the presentations or are also stated in one of the reports of the working body of the National Assembly: "The protection of human rights in Slovenia is not worrying." The result of this sentence is, of course, immediately doubting why this meeting, why it is sinking paper, why so much media pump around the Ombudsman, if there is any truth in his words. According to our assessment, this theory is rejected only by sexual assaults or statistics that show sexual assaults on persons under 15 years of age. There is little concern about the Ombudsman, but we find the national party to be deeply concerned. Only the number of attacks has increased by over 30% in the last four years, that is, since Mr Hanžek was the Ombudsman. And that's not worrying about our Ombudsman. Let me continue to say that the violations of sexual inviolability by abuse of the situation during the same period, under the same gentleman, thus Mr Hanzko, who runs this so-called democratic office of the Ombudsman, has increased by over 70%. And even this 70% is not concerned about Mr. Hanzko, the Ombudsman. In doing so, I would like to point out that we are increasingly receiving confirmation, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, that the Ombudsman, at least in the area of sexual inviolability, is always making a strict transition to the perpetrators of crimes. In support of my words, let me mention only the presence of the guardian or his deputy in various television shows that are slowly gaining the status of the show. After all, Studio City was one of such shows on national television, where the Deputy Ombudsman, with all the powers, represented the Ombudsman's institution and advocated with all his voice that Slovenia did not need any register of pedophiles. So that Slovenia does not need a list of those who violate sexual inviolability, in this case young people, because this, this infringement, this most heinous crime, according to the Ombudsman's assessment of the current institution, that is, the office run by Mr Hanžek, is not a worrying one, but that this would not be a lonely case, is, I think, in 14 days, the same theory, the same advocacy and equal concern for the victims of pedophiles by the deputy, one of the deputies, the Ombudsman, also in the second edition of Trenja. Also here is this office, which some of you call the most important office, the office of democracy, the office, I do not know what has also taken up the theory that the issue of victims of sexual inviolability does not matter to Mr Hanžk, that it is more important that the perpetrators, that is, those few convicted pedophiles, live well in Slovenian prisons to have all the care. This was the main concern of the office, not what will happen to the victim, not how to prevent, not what Slovenian politics, Slovenian legislative authority or executive authority can do, in order to reduce the number of these, in our opinion, the most repugnant act, not the concern of the Ombudsman. Finally, he confirms this in his report, and I will quote again, when Mr Hanžek found out at the outset, as he wrote, his 10th annual report for 2004 that the protection of human rights in Slovenia is not worrying. So much for the first part or the view of the Slovenian National Party of the matter. At the same time, allow me to mention that before the time that I will not just speak, on 19 October 2005, in the Slovenian National Party when the budget of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted for 2005 and 2006, i.e. for two years, I apologize, 2006 and 2007 we have proposed that the financial resources be allocated, increased, namely, to public and development social protection programmes for those who care for the so-called non-problematics according to words or in the opinion of Mr Hanžk, i.e. the problem of children. And that this money, we talked about the minimum financial resources, that's 3 million a year, they take away Mr Hanzk, because he doesn't think that's a problem anyway, so why would he get the money for it if he didn't see the problem. Of course, the position has not been adopted, even those who today's most vocal advocates of Mr Hanžk have objected. So if it's not one paradox together, that some institution says that sexual violence against children, just against children, that I won't say it over adults, it's no problem, and in return, we're still leaving financial resources for him to deal with it. Do not allow, within the framework of the Liberal Democracy and the United List of Social Democrats, I apologize, the Social Democrats, therefore, according to Mrs Potter and Mrs Shirce, to transfer these funds to those organisations that see the problem. No, your stiffness and thank God that you are no longer in the executive branch of power continues, and, of course, prevent you from taking that step in this area as well. Because I see that you are looking at me with amazement, Mrs Shirca, by your vote against the amendment of the Slovenian National Party you have achieved this. I'd like to touch you next. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u23	Please, don't argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u24	the areas of justice. [[...]] Thank you for warning Mrs. Shirco.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u25	I warned you both.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u26	I would like to further address the issue of justice and the Ombudsman's concern for an effective judiciary in our country. In doing so, I must inform you that today all Members or I apologize, all Members and all Members, at their addresses, at Šubičeva 4, will receive a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This is one of those, and according to our assessment of the most important measures by which we can reach into inefficiency, or into the effectiveness of the judiciary. We have been predicting these projected constitutional changes for a long time. The Ombudsman's response is zero, now I don't know, maybe he doesn't have access to daily information, but here I appeal at least to you, honourable Members and honourable Members, if all the members of the group have expressed their concerns about unreasonablely long-term judicial time frames, about unreasonable decisions, then we can do something about it today and in return for it. Simply sign the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Articles 129 and 130. This is the first step we can take today. I told you, today you will receive a proposal or document from the Slovenian National Party. And I would like to ask Mr Hanzko, given that I know that he has been informed, at least at the moment and on this initiative, join us. Mr Hanžek, in the good part of his report again, like all previous years, deals with the problem of self-exposure, according to some with the issue of deleted, where the National Assembly designates as that institution of political interference, if he even hoped to launch a referendum on the issue, I apologize, some referendum on the issue of self-exposured or deleted. I must stress this, and I regret that we are obviously the only ones in the national party that all the parliamentary groups have already spoken before me, and I think that almost everyone has shaved on the subject that the referendum is not some mocking institute, but that it is a referendum that reflects the highest degree of democracy and leaves the decision-making of citizens and citizens. And one of the introductory provisions in the constitution is that the people in the Republic of Slovenia have power. I can say that you will understand the power in the Republic of Slovenia has a people. And to hope that a representative, an official representative, can confirm that this is a disdain for the people to decide on such an important matter, then I am not surprised that such a relationship with the views of the Ombudsman on the question of pedophiles, to the question of victims of paedophilia, is of no interest to him at all. To make him more interested in preparing this 100 and some or some 10 pages of his report, where he will use that feature annually on the computer to copy and replace only the 2003 years in 2004. But this must not happen, and we must not accept such reports and this kind of inactivity of a person. This inaction of this man leads to the inaction of this office and, worse still, the consequence of not expressing concern about the victims and the inability to act to prevent the recriminal crimes that have been committed by individual people in our society. And, of course, no one deals with this because the Ombudsman estimates that this is not worrying. I would like to continue to touch, I apologize, the next chapter, which, like the chapter of self-exposed persons, appears in the Ombudsman's report every year, is a matter of concern and concern about the rights of members of the Roma communities. Of course, the Ombudsman forgets, on purpose or not, that the question of rights, the question of duty, defined or the need to respond to rights and duties is defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and that this is, in my opinion, even the only, unresolved constitutional material. In its Article 65, the Constitution makes it clear that the legislative branch of the Authority, on a proposal from the executive branch of the Authority, will have to adopt a law on the Roma community at the request of individual Members, groups of citizens. That's what the founder wrote when he adopted the constitution. And this is what the national party has offered you, ladies and gentlemen, even the government for admission. At the beginning or end of last year, on 3 December 2004, Members of the Slovenian National Party to the parliamentary procedure, in your admission, offered you a law on the Roma community, a law which, unlike the current one, from the current difficulties to the current government, provided for representatives of the Roma community not only of rights but also of course of duties. Just like every Slovenian has rights and duties. Only rights cannot be granted; obligations must also come. So call it discrimination, call it anything, Mr. Hanžek called it even racism. Rasizem because we are trying to enforce the principle of equality, equality before the law in terms of rights and obligations? Then, at least according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, something is really wrong with our Ombudsman. You had a law before you - that is, the law on the Roma community, which was created under Article 65 of the Constitution, has been criticized by Mr Hanžek. He also said - because I do not hope to repeat what he said about this law. But, of course, to do something about it himself, except to apply that copy order every year from the previous report to this year, do nothing. The talk was also - which, of course, is pointed out by the Ombudsman, if we can still say so to him - about the fact that in recent times politicians are often preceded by expressions of intolerance. It is Mr Hanžek, both on national television and in the national assembly and in various interviews, that is to say, if anyone is taking the lead in such a speech. Think a little bit about what our Ombudsman, who you are so strongly defending, has said about - because you all know what I'm talking about. If you don't know, then you don't read the daily newspaper, and you don't watch the daily TV shows. But the fact is, if anyone comes forward in a speech like this, it's the Ombudsman. His apology for doing so is very simple, or his answer is very simple. He says if I want him to hear me, that's how I have to express myself. Allow me to conclude that we will have some time to discuss later. The Ombudsman at the introduction of his 10th annual report [[Quote]] : "The cheater or office has successfully passed its childish period and is now on its feet." After ten years! After ten years of inactivity, the Ombudsman's office, its inefficiency, its verbal aggression, and its blindness before -- as I previously counted, paedophilia and all these things -- excuses that the child's period has passed. Yes, but if we accept this theory - thank you, Mrs. Possoncheva! - and if we agree to this theory, then we must also sincerely apologize to Mr Kos, from whom we wanted to have effects in one year. Therefore, on these theories, that ten years of the existence of an institution has no effect and we accept as an excuse what it says to itself, I have been through a period of childhood, in the meantime receiving millions and millions of Slovenian tolls from the budget every year without delay, ladies and gentlemen Members, we must not agree to such a theory in our country. Not to these kind of banal excuses either. Of course, we do not intend to support such reports, which are intended exclusively for ourselves, the reports and nothing else, and are of course agreeing to meet with them, to talk a little bit and to give a green light for this kind of inefficiency, and not to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the report and on the proposal for recommendations. There may not be too many procedural guidelines in this regard. Indeed, the first debate is the general debate and then the debate on the amendments is followed, but the time is common, so please take this into account. Let me also say that, after the conclusion of the debate on the amendments, the time that remains, and when it does not, will not remain, cannot be redistributed by the Rules of Procedure. At any time during the debate, either the Government or its representatives, who have 30 minutes at their disposal and the proposer, may be involved with the Ombudsman, who has 15 minutes. In doing so, I would ask you to present yourself to representatives and representatives and the government and the Ombudsman, because unfortunately we do not all know you because of the need for a magnetogram. Thank you very much. Would you like to have a word with the Ombudsman at this stage? The word is yours, you can speak from here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you very much. In the beginning, I would only explain a few things so that the debate would not go wrong, but in the end, I will say everything. With regard to the question raised by Mr Zampernik. The results of the elections indicate a deterioration. I'd like to explain and apologize if this sentence might be a little strangely written. It is only the results of the elections, the sex structure after the final elections, that is because it does not work from the office for equal opportunities. That means that, that's all. Thank you very much. I'll stay later, in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much. And now he has the word, Mr. Bevk. Please. He's quitting. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u30	Respectable Ombudsman with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Given the very content of the report and the recommendations proposed by the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights, the same options, I would like to make only a few comments and perhaps help to make the work of the Ombudsman, as I have already pointed out, even more comprehensive in dealing with the problem of domestic violence, which was in the National Assembly months ago. Above all, in addition to the general broad issue that needs to be addressed, I am disturbed by the fact that in particular topics, it is often observed that we do not tackle this problem from all possible perspectives, regardless of the different political or any other notions in our society. Of course, it is also very important what statements or opinions the Ombudsman takes and what he actually points out to the public. In particular, I would stop at these points and the first point would be the issue of minorities, specifically the national community in our country. We know that Slovenia is known as one of those countries that best protects minorities and over-calls for even better implementation or perfection of this area can cause counter-effects. I therefore ask the Ombudsman how he would comment, in the context of the emphasis of this report, which is related to greater attention to minorities, on the next request of the Koroška Homeland Organisation, which announces a complaint before the European Court of Human Rights, because of the situation of the old-Austrians in Slovenia, which they say should be recognised as the right of the ethnic minority. I say this because I think that exposing problems that are not the most acute problems, according to my opinion, in Slovenia or problems that are generally well solved, over-emphasized this as a problem is not good, because it can cause counter-effects and I think there is one effect in this context that is not exactly desirable. The second point is the issue of judicial work, justice. Of course, I agree with points 8 and 9 that the recommendations in such a text are accepted, but in the Ombudsman's report I still miss, as I said before, a little more comprehensive consideration of the issue of work of the courts. Since citizens and citizens are advertised in our parliamentary offices, I often face complaints, very concrete, about the work of the courts. I'll be very specific. And I think the guardian's office should also include such segments in its report. For the Ombudsman may, I will say, present impartially, neutrally to the public also those matters which are very important for the concrete work of the courts and can encourage judges, as individuals, to a better work. And not just calling on the state or government and individual institutions and the Ministry of Justice to settle the systemic issue. I'm going to list some specific issues that people are putting out. For example, when major hearings are scheduled, when judges go to work, and when they leave work. We know that the judges are public officials, just like we are Members, like the mayors and some others. I would expect, and I think the guardian should also point out that public officials are 24 hours a day, even on Saturdays and Sundays. And, if we are witnessing judicial backlogs, first of all, these public officials are expected to do their job in full-time or out of work. And customers or citizens and citizens say that there is virtually no call for major hearings after 13 p.m. That says a lot. That treatments are scheduled from 9 a.m. to 13 p.m., but before and after that, there are no such treatments. Or even by physically showing that judges are leaving most of the work, I will now identify myself in the courts dealing with the biggest backlogs, Ljubljana and Celje, mostly there around 3 p.m. I don't want to generalize things. I'm saying what I hear from people coming to the office. That is why I think that this is one of the things that the Ombudsman should consider as comprehensive and detailed as possible when dealing with a particular issue, particularly in those segments that specifically disturb people. I think that this could help to make it easier to get past the systemic pathways that we know are sometimes very long-lasting to deal with those problems that disturb people in everyday life. With regard to the recommendations relating to health care and health insurance under point 27, I would just like to add to this, quote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should consider the possibility that those who are being treated for drug addiction should be compensated for during social rehabilitation." Here I think this definition is very limited. Not just illicit drugs. We know that people are also being treated for drugs, and here I think it's fitting, but now it's not flying to the Ombudsman's report, it's just a recommendation. And then there's the protection of children's rights. As I mentioned in the discussion about domestic violence. I don't think it's good for the Ombudsman to get involved in dealing with the issue of children's rights in such a narrow way as domestic violence. Because we would hide our eyes from it, but because violence against children in a different environment is probably much more problematic and much more complex. And that's why I'd like to give it back then, I'd like it to go on when it comes to dealing with the child's rights, to really try to look at everything. A while ago, MEP Ludmila Novak pointed out the impact on children through the media, especially the Internet and also computer games. I don't think this thing really is negligible. The behavior of children, those who are professionally involved in this, you know, is often conditioned by the fact that children simply do not have a family environment and therefore it seems to me that exposure to domestic violence is not the kind of signal that would have a positive impact on solving the problem. I would therefore like to continue asking if this matter can be dealt with in other ways, but the problem of violence between children and children is great. Pedophilia was mentioned earlier. And in the final phase, the exposure of children to unsupervised pornography in Slovenia, I think it is relatively large, given what this direct and uncontrolled impact is in other EU Member States, at least as far as I am walking the world, I think that other matters are significantly more controlled. I think this is one of the segments that would be good to take into account. Another point, the work of the Constitutional Court. In particular, the report emphasises that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not being implemented. In this context, it would also be necessary to look at how the Constitutional Court works. The Constitutional Court is actually one of the institutions in our country, which is actually untouchable, which is not good. It is very difficult for Members to talk about this, it is very difficult for the government to talk about, it is very difficult for the judiciary to talk about this, because we know that the roles are divided, but we notice that the Constitutional Court often fails to carry out its mission. So, it's not a matter of making decisions, but first try to get rid of the thing she got. I do not think this is the proper mission of the Constitutional Court, and therefore I call on the Ombudsman to say that in the following year, also from this perspective, how the Constitutional Court, which is becoming increasingly important in our country, also because of the changed political situation, I will say that the Constitutional Court is carrying out its mission. From practice, I can say that, as I have already mentioned, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly waited for a solution or a solution to a particular problem to make the initiator's legal interest go away, even though someone had it for several years. And it often does not solve matters that can cause, especially at local level, great material damage. I'm saying this from practice, I wouldn't mention specific cases. In general, he presented the position of our Group of Members, colleague Capuder. I would point out once again that the Ombudsman's Institute, I think, is a great opportunity to solve a number of problems over systematic and complex procedures and that it is right that the Ombudsman is trying to profile himself by putting himself on the side of people, regardless of what ideas or religious or political options they belong to, and that he is deliberately taking his office away from that feeling. I must say, sometimes in recent years, there has been a feeling that this office is currently not completely colourless if I say so. I think it is possible to move this forward more successfully and I think that the Ombudsman's institution will then only acquire and help to do what everyone wants, this is to develop one civilised and democratic society in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Ombudsman and your colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Each year, it is the turn of the Ombudsman's report, and I am pleased that every year we are only more serious than the year before, the issue of the protection of human rights contained in the Ombudsman's report is being addressed. I think there are fewer, fortunately, cases where when we consider the Ombudsman's report, we deal with it and its functioning, not the problems it points to. I remember the debates of two, three years ago, when we were very misaligned. Thank God, today, with the exception of Mr Pečet, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, we have all made efforts so far to deal with the problems which the Ombudsman draws attention to with such or otherwise understanding. And I would like to say in this regard that this positive approach is very useful to me, that we must be aware that the Ombudsman can more or less potently indicate the issues of complaints and warnings from citizens and citizens, as well as from other citizens of Slovenia, that, according to his function, he cannot and cannot invent them, but that we can see that it is from the scope of the report, from cases that revolve around about 3,000, enough questions that this National Assembly should discuss. And in this regard, let me say that, in addition to the report of today's hearing, it seems to me that the most important opinions we will give to the Government, what recommendations we will make. In this direction, the mother's working body has made an effort, due to the differences between us, to form them in as general a way as possible in order for at least this general content to be adopted. Many times, more concrete content has not come across special approval in the National Assembly and then nothing has been adopted. The recommendations put forward concern important areas. We in our parliamentary group have made an effort, added a few suggestions, on them later, when the recommendations and amendments will be discussed, and on this point, I would like to give one thought or one proposal to all of us, so that maybe every year, in preparing the report, a few more emphasis may be given, not only to the Ombudsman's report, but also to their own assessment of how the recommendations that this National Assembly has accepted as State authorities, especially for the government, have been implemented or not, and in this regard also requested an appropriate report from the Government. Because then, in my opinion, we would have achieved earlier the purpose that we have at the hearing of the Ombudsman's report. And in this regard, just a few questions that we are particularly alert to. We believe that it would be good to have constitutional rights not to think about how the Constitutional Court works, but, above all, how we respect the obligations of the Constitutional Court's decisions. At the same time, it seems important for us to stress two things. One thing is that, consciously in our Group of Members, we have not decided to change the recommendation made by our mother's working body regarding the deleted. There is no point in discussing this subject on a large scale year after year, but we would like to communicate our position. For us, the content is important, not the form of the decision. And we will be very grateful if the government comes, regardless of form, with proposals for solutions that are consistent with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I believe that this is also a recommendation made by the Ombudsman, so I am glad that we are not discussing this much anymore, and that this is not again a subject that occupyes us all. Yes, it is one of the things that we owe it to, but it is probably true, or at least it is our firm belief. Secondly, the very modest warning we give is a matter of recommending to the government to increase its concern about regulating the situation of citizens and citizens of Slovenia who are members of other nationalities of the former common country. Not to expect any kind of speed, I would say, a radical solution; this would be bad because it could cause indisposition and resistance also between citizens and citizens of Slovenia of Slovenian nationality. But it is probably not good to get ahead of this, because of the fact that we have, of all the international institutions dealing with minority issues, warned that it is also a matter of starting to think more seriously about some of the arrangements in many areas; consciously, I would not count on anyone to tell me that I would say in advance how it should be arranged. It is necessary to think about it in peace, to talk, to seek mutual solutions with those affected, and also with the public in order to understand them, just not to run away from this issue and this problem. Another time. We, regardless of what you are like as a parliamentary group and I personally think about the solutions brought by the law on denationalisation, are satisfied that problems are being solved. If the law is here, it's based on it. And we do not object to the special efforts of the government over the past few years to speed up the resolution of these issues because it is a big complex, and once it is resolved, we will do an important part, whether the consequences will be positive or negative. However, it seems to us that the Ombudsman, and also to be affected, has repeatedly warned of two problems, including with specific reports that remain unresolved, which are also with demands and lawsuits before the European Court and we do not know what the outcome will be. [[I mean tenants in denationalized apartments and housewives and their position]] , and we just want to warn the government that it would be good to think about this issue as well. It seems to us that it is possible to draw attention from the Ombudsman's report to whether or not to accept the warning that they are becoming increasingly sensitive to the situation of people and to the issues of their working, social and similar situation. I understood that there are increasing cases where people do not even want to, or do not hope, their personal name and surname to say or ask in this area to encourage concrete guardian activity, because they are afraid of the extent of the rights they may have and are afraid that their injustices will be caused. I believe that this is a great deal because there are also many people who are in personal distress, even at some point by their own fault, but an objective situation is such that they cannot solve it. And I am afraid that public perceptions are often more in the direction of how the individual is guilty of such a situation than of what we have all done together, so that such cases can be sufficiently regulated from the conclusion of the employment relationship, from social rights, from the rights of health, pension protection and so on. I think it points to this and to pay attention to the upcoming debate that we are expecting and, in part, we already have in the public as regards the reforms that are being prepared, which are sometimes being simplified in such a way as to ensure a society in which everyone in particular and on its own will be responsible, but not that, due to objective circumstances, he will not be able to solve his problems properly, that there will also be a need for assistance from society and the state. At this point, I fear we may be thinking too little and giving too much attention to other issues. And the last thing I would mention in the debate before defending our amendments, and I hope that at least or that our parliamentary group will be supported at least in this point, is the problem of the pension of citizens and citizens of Slovenia who have performed part of their working life or have worked in other republics, but work in Slovenia, is particularly close to our southern border, or those who have also worked in the former republics, but now, according to their own opinion, they also have a position, according to the explicit views of our committee for work, family and social affairs, inadequately regulated, on the basis of fully defined decisions, how to save it, and I expect that at least what has been adopted unanimously in the home labour body, is also adopted today at the national assembly to accelerate these activities that the government promises. We are aware that it is not easy to resolve them, but at least it is necessary to define them clearly, because I think that the proposal for a decision is defined in the worst possible way, probably by mistake, because if it were resolved as described in the conclusions, the situation would worsen for all but not improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I invite the next one to the word "magic." The gendarmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you very much. So I think the Ombudsman's work is one that compares the declared human rights in our society with the actual level of achievement. Viewed in full, we can be satisfied with the situation in the world, but with the eyes of the affected citizens, who have such problems, the matter is completely different, so we must and should be acceptable to the warnings of the guardian who is set up to warn us about these things and, of course, to encourage us to behave differently and more responsibly. In this regard, specific cases of human rights violations or non-compliance are valuable tools to understand where, where, to what extent and to what extent human rights are violated and can be addressed more quickly and more effectively. Of course, I understand the Ombudsman's principled warnings because those responsible for the violation or exercise of human rights change with every authority, but also the affected citizens are again and again and again, but the principle warnings point to the problem and give the opportunity and opportunity to violators or those who have abandoned certain acts to prevent human rights violations from occurring, the time for their conduct to be guided correctly or corrected if it has been wrong on the one hand and, on the other hand, they can summarise appropriate measures to ensure that human rights are realized in due time and in the right manner. That's why I don't criticize, not even principled warnings. I must say that I myself have been directly responsible in basic health care for at least three decades for how we exercise our rights in this area, and I must say that all healthcare professionals have not seen their responsibilities in this respect the same way and that I, as the first to point out, should be able to exercise their health rights in accordance with positive legislation and in accordance with the principles of professional and doctrinality, in this sense I have come across a number of differences and different views, but in the beginning I have never attached anyone to the "pranger" when it comes to failing, whether they are conscious or due to imprudentiality, but I have first warned in principle that this is not good and that this way does not meet the needs of those in the waiting room. In the next warning, I added the necessary sanctions that will take place if the affected do not change their behaviour and translate into what we all expect and need, and then I came completely with concreteness, I would say, a direct attack on the perpetrators and confront them with their direct and indisputable concrete responsibility and put them ahead of the choice or to do the right thing, or I would have to leave this work and I must say that in the three houses where I was responsible, I have achieved good results and I think that this is one of the ways we can also use them in practice. Since much has been said about the individual levels or areas of protection of human rights and the shortcomings that still exist and that need to be addressed, perhaps one area that is less discussed is the one that concerns the material compensation of World War II. We have great debts in regulating various things in the field of our past, from denationalisation to victims of war violence, the correction of injustices and so forth. We have, of course, faster or slower implementation of the laws adopted, and it is right that the Ombudsman points out that there are still so many cases of unresolved and, of course, these warnings, as well as the practice and situation in particular areas, have contributed to a lot of this being done and a lot of things could be said to have gotten out of the table. The material compensation of those who lost everything or much of their wealth by World War II if we ignore human sacrifices because they are not the subject of this issue, remains unresolved. In this sense, I think it is a good warning that this area is also slowly being opened up and resolved more quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolić has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very, very much. I also note that the report is indeed extensive, including individual areas, and that there is also a need to complement various areas. I must say that I was surprised, or very surprised, that I did not find anywhere in the report a problem which has been pointed out for 10 years by the category of Slovenians living along the Slovenian-Croatian border, the category of pensioners, Slovenian citizens who have worked in the Republic of Croatia and have been alerted to this for 10 years; there is no strike in this report. The report by the Labour, Labour and Labour Authority, as stated in the Ombudsman's report, states that the Ombudsman has been alerting the problem of deleted persons for many years, which would not have been solved in 2004. While the solution to the Roma problem is improving, the Ombudsman believes that specific rights of the Roma community should be systematically regulated and a uniform policy should be adopted to address the problems of education, housing, employment and social security of Roma. Look, everything is nice and good, but I will now read to you what these people wrote at the beginning of this year or the end of last year, and certainly it concerns the Ombudsman. We think you've spent too much time and money on deleted, Roma, minorities and the like, and put a small group of Slovenian citizens on the sidelines and let them die on meals. This confirms that in 1992 people with this type of problem were about 4,250, and today it is a group of Slovenian citizens, say and write, 1.385. This means that 2,865 people have already found their eternal peace. Therefore, we demand that our problem begin to be resolved immediately, today and here. We have been warned about this for ten years by these people, and I have somehow expected that, despite the fact that the new government has actively engaged in solving this problem, this will be written in this report. I kind of have a problem with ranking problems, so I'd like to point out this problem. And certainly also with regard to what the Ombudsman points out, the problem of social security. This is the problem that these people are always alerting them to -- those people who are now primarily feeling that they are not guaranteed social security. That is why I am really reminding you that this is not covered in the report, I am protesting from this point of view that this is urgently necessary to be included in this report. In June, Mr Potræ had previously proposed an amendment - I think the SD is proposing an amendment - but I do not think it relates to the right point of addition, so this matter needs to be examined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Petan has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Today we have also heard that it is important that we do something, for such an action gives a signal and an emphasis to it, and that the content can also become kinder if the action is right or if it gets a negative image if it is different. We also expect a certain action in the SDS Group that we have not yet seen, so we expect it. I would like to say that the Ombudsman in our country, the Ombudsman of the rights of all citizens and citizens, has spent a lot of energy on the so-called deleted. There is nothing wrong with this, but it is true that the situation regarding the deleted in our country was compared to that of Nazi Germany. I sent a public letter to him myself immediately after this statement on a very watched television show, noting that I am convinced that he was engaged and that it would be appropriate to apologize. Later, we also requested this on behalf of the parliamentary group, but so far there has been nothing. I'm not gonna count everything. Now to the point. I don't know how many times, I think that's the 30th time that the petition committee sat down two or three months ago raised this question. And since the watchman had to leave the meeting at that time, I agreed to receive a written answer in this regard. I was glad to get a written answer. But when I read it, my joy vanished. Literally, we will not be talking in writing, but as it is written, I received the answer: "The Varuh of human rights will not apologize to the Slovenes and Slovenes for the statement in which he is supposed to compare Slovenia with Nazi Germany because he did not do so. I have explained this several times to Mr Petan, as well as to others, because I still believe that I live in a state of law. I think it is necessary to prove first what Mr Petan has not done, even though he has accused me several times. Therefore, before any repetition of the question, I would like a copy of my alleged statement." I'll do it now. I have a magnetogram of that show that was held on 7.12.2003, where Dr. Brejc, Dr. Yalosičev and Mr. Biščak also participated. At 7.24 p.m., this was on Sunday the Ombudsman said when it came to another matter, so I will read even his thought: "I regret the entire agreement I did not hear well because the woods were connected, but I can say that this simple intolerance led to the end. Something that has been happening in Slovenia for the past decade has now come to the street. For example, if a referendum were to be called in 1937 in Nazi Germany, or if the Jews had to take citizenship, they would certainly support the majority opinion and so on." A minute later, Dr. Brace warned him, and he said, "Excuse me, I have something else to say. It is extremely scandalous that the ombudsman, our Ombudsman, compares Slovenia with Nazi Germany." Immediately the Ombudsman's reply: "I can do the compensation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u39	Mr. Petan, I can only point out that this is not in the report. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u40	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u41	the proposal for recommendations. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u42	Yes, it is, we are clearing up certain matters because it is also very important for me to decide whether to support this report or not. "In this law he speaks of compensation and compensation will be given to everyone in court when he proves they belong to him. The damages, once again this large number, I will again compare with Nazi Germany, is exactly the same story as the Grand Maester," and so on. I will again compare with Nazi Germany without apologizing for his mistake, but he has admitted to comparing it, and now he will again compare it. I won't read any more. Your Honor! I still expect that we will all receive the same criteria in the protection of human rights, including the Slovenians and Slovenians, who voted in the referendum on deleted only as we did. There were 95% of us. We have the same rights, and we do not need to make such comparisons. Not only are comparisons made, but these comparisons are even highlighted and comparisons are again made. If such treatment is his message, then God help us. I expect that we will all have the same rights, alone and also our parliamentary group still expects an apology, and we still allow for the possibility of someone having a bad day and denying himself to a person. Two years later, that's hard. But I am a little sad that I have to keep stressing this and asking for such a report. I think it would be more right if this action were as a personal initiative of the one who just said it. On the other hand, it is also a matter of a loving culture. And in this light, I must admit that a well-ordered and transparent report as well as the reports so far have faded and lost their brilliance. Because somehow I get the feeling that this is a gap between what is written in this report or in these reports, because there were more, and during the actual situation, especially because of the positions that the responsible author represents. That is also why I must admit that I have not yet decided whether I will support this report or not. For I look forward to a certain action, which I have not yet received, despite the emergencies and written demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you, too. Mr Kontic has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, the respectable Ombudsman with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The Ombudsman is a system regime that we have put in place to realize that people are being violated by rights that are worth warning about and that are always worth taking action. I am sorry that the Ombudsman no longer has the authority to request the discharge of individual officials who violate human rights. And a conclusion for those who only criticize the work of the guardian and him personally. We have a good saying with us that when you step on her tail, the more it hurts, the more the cat whines. The specific chapter in the proposal for recommendations is devoted to the judiciary, the recommendation under order number 8 instructs the Government, the Court and other competent authorities to take additional measures within their competence to achieve a high-quality and effective trial within a reasonable time. That there are problems in this area is certainly not new, and that attempts to improve the situation in the past have certainly not been new. Visits to the parliamentary group are often related to the problems that individuals face when they are involved in judicial proceedings. It is also entirely human that many times they are not satisfied with the judgments handed down, and many times on this basis they demand the action of mayors, Members. Fortunately, this action in the trial and even the judgments handed down in court is not possible. There are few cases, as can be seen from the Ombudsman's report, the multi-year waiting period from the filing of the action, to the first main hearing order, even up to five years. This is certainly not a trial within a reasonable time frame, I am sure that there will be an increasing number of complaints addressed to the relevant European institutions. Many times we join the politicians in thinking that we have bad courts in Slovenia, that judges do not perform quality work and that they need to be deprived of a permanent judicial mandate. According to my assessment, this certainly does not constitute an improvement in the situation in our courts which are overwhelmed by lawsuits. Staff reinforcements will be needed and probably more resources will be needed for the functioning of the judiciary. In my annual report, I paid particular attention to the Ombudsman's findings regarding police procedures. Also on the basis of his findings, in the past, at the time of Minister Bohinc, certain decisions were taken, and legal solutions were taken, which are reflected in the reduction of written initiatives by the Ombudsman. The reduction of only 36% is certainly encouraging data. As a result, it is also likely that the 12th recommendation is that the government only travels to ensure that the police carry out their tasks in a high-quality manner. It is understandable that people are very sensitive to the behavior of a repressive body. This is not to be overlooked, however, by the fact that police work is often subject to very high expectations on the one hand and limitations on the powers of police officers on the other. The desire for police officers to meet as many of our expectations as possible is often simply unrealistic. As I said, there have been some changes in the past regarding complaints. They shall apply until the beginning of 2004, as found in the report. And as the Ombudsman has pointed out, the head of the police's organisational unit can resolve most of the comments and disagreements, including in favour of the complainant. I am convinced that the Ombudsman and his employees must continue to visit individual police stations and point out the shortcomings identified in the review, especially because the police are sensitive to his or your comments. Unlike the decline in complaints in the police area, there has been an increase in the number of new initiatives in the labour legal field, even for a fifth. This is certainly a disturbing information. Anonymous ones, or numbers of them, are also alarming, and they are certainly a reflection of fear, which is slowly becoming the only motivation for unconditional work. Even more worrying is the Ombudsman’s information on complaints of non-action, since the Ombudsman’s intervention would only make the already catastrophic situation worse. The Ombudsman's powers are also limited in this area. It is important, however, that measures are repeatedly taken, whether or not in a way that alerts the competent institutions. And, as I said in the introduction, most of the guardian's affairs are dealt with by Members in the performance of their work in sentinel offices, and several times we refer the complainants to the Ombudsman's address. Despite all my referrals, for example, in my parliamentary office, I find that the membership of the area of the Ambassador's office is declining, index 0403 is 78.6. The Ombudsman, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, is well known for not copying warnings and is very critical when necessary. His annual report, however, reflects the actual situation in our society.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you very much. In the parliamentary term 1992-1996, four initiatives were put in place to withdraw citizenship. Four. Colleagues here have become the fourth party in the Republic of Slovenia following public research. So much for impatience and where it's coming from. It is precisely because society is protected from this and it is our responsibility, primarily our responsibility, because the media report on what we say and it is our responsibility to make this country normal. The attacks on the ombudsman, which I think are totally unjustifiable, instead of discussing the content of human rights and the state of human rights in the country, are stepping up, legitimizing intolerance. So, in my humble opinion, there is a need for a deeper reflection on what we ourselves as Members are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac's next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. The Ombudsman's report alone will not be and cannot be supported. The reason for that is quite something. I myself have seen the 2003 report, the 2004 report, and the fact is that the thesis that my fellow Member, Mr Pece, that the Ombudsman deals with keyboards on the computer, holds, both on the scale of the report and also on the fact that it is probably one of his employees, because he himself probably does not, has forgotten to delete even some of the sentences in the 2003 report. This country devotes half a billion Slovenian tolls to the operation of the Ombudsman's Office and also to the 2006 and 2007 budget. The statement that the situation of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia is not worrying is your statement. But the question is, why do we need you? You don't think you're the one who brought this country to this level when human rights are no longer a problem. For this, we could almost stand down on our own if we had a conscience and said I would show up again when this problem arose. But I believe it would look like this to you, but today we'd step down, and tomorrow we'd have trouble re-emerging. If I go to the contents of the report myself. There has been a lot of talk about sexual violence against minors, which is too cheap in the report in the light of trends occurring in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that the Ombudsman warns and gives the perpetrators of crimes - and this has also been the practice in the past in this country, that the perpetrators of crimes serving their sentences in prisons should all, rehabilitation, work opportunities, education opportunities, many things. But I didn't see what was being given to the victim. The victim is abandoned if it is a minor, the ingenuity of his parents. Whether they will be able to provide professional assistance to her, we no longer wonder, because we know that any good professional assistance today costs quite a few Slovenian tolars. In view of the work you are doing, it is important to say that your task is to warn and also to act, not to interfere with the work of the National Assembly as it has done, for example, in the law on the Roma Community, which the Slovenian National Party has put into Parliamentary Procedure. You know, this is not the last thing that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia requires of us. And at that time, Mr. Guardian, you were engaged politically, which is not good for you. On the other hand, in your report you read to us, politicians, words such as xenophobics, racists, or worse. Then read them to yourself. You too are politically involved; we know which client you are closest to and which client you would like to belong to if you were not a guardian. So let me ask you publicly from this city to consider, because of your misdeed and because of your political activity, giving up as soon as possible and helping Slovenia in such a way that human rights are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u49	Mr Zagorac, this goes beyond the debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u50	On a higher level. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u51	This goes beyond the debate because we are discussing the subject, the report, not the person, not the function. Thank you for your understanding, even for your advance. Mr Jerovšek has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have before us the 10th report of the Ombudsman. I am very pleased that our National Assembly and also the Slovenian public are paying increasing attention to this area, as is evident from the interest in this debate, to the feeling of protecting human rights in the Slovenian public. And certainly the Ombudsman's Institute and the Ombudsman's Office have a key role to play in this regard. And, of course, it seems to me that again there is a key area in this report and also in the activities of the Ombudsman. And what Slovenian citizens who are faced with their presence in some way, if I say so, in the courts of the most tara, is judicial backlogs. This month, we have learned about the European Court of Human Rights verdict, which should in fact cause greater unrest and greater response between the Slovenian courts, but unfortunately we do not see this. As a result, my colleague and I have also encouraged a statement or invitation from Slovenian judges and courts to sign here. And yet, on this occasion, the guardian would ask if he was ever, I didn't see it, but I think he should, take an acceleration at the largest backlog, with the longest beard in Slovenia, that's with the problem of genocide. However, I would expect from such an institution that even in the face of unloving events, in fact, it has recently reacted in some way when two parties protested that there was an investigation in our possession of the problem of genocide, that it came to the public. I must state here the opinion of Professor Pirnath, who put not why it came to the public, I had to ask myself before the public why it would not come, which the Minister would not inform. However, when we know of the cases of the Hague Court and other courts, where the practice is completely different and I therefore reiterate that this has been done in defence, preventing the sanctioning of genocide. On this occasion, let me say that I have no vindictiveness on my own, and that I, in the previous term, have also discussed with the previous State Prosecutor how it was possible for me to reach or adopt a resolution in this National Assembly, an honourable declaration that all possible convicts after these acts against humanity and that the State Assembly is providing them with an immediate abolition after the verdict. I think it would show that it's not about revenge. If that's possible, let the lawyers help me put something like this into the procedure in the National Assembly, I'm in. However, what is happening in this area is unheard of and shameful for Slovenia and also as Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee I have received these questions and these observations, how this is possible and I do not know if the Ombudsman has reacted to the unheard-of conduct of the District Court in Ljubljana when he refused to proceed through criminal proceedings and it has been said that 90 and more years of age witnesses are not the reason for possible evidence to be erased so that there is no hurry. I'm expecting some sensitivity, but this is a lot of casualties. And I didn't see that coming. I must also say that I am critical of the Ombudsman's behaviour at the RTV referendum, that is, the Ombudsman's public agitation against the law that brings public transfers from Parliament, when we are talking about where, according to the size of the measure, in this area, the public transfer of Parliament is the best means to protect human rights and fight corruption, and Mr Hanžek fought against such a means through agitation, that is to say agitation against freedom of expression, that was an attack on freedom of expression and freedom of the public word. And with regard to this freedom of the public word, I wonder whether, I have seen something about executions, I have already come across a similar case with which former Member Ivo Hvalica, I must say publicly, faced? I think it's a project to destroy a man, to break a man who may have even succeeded. On the contrary, Ivo Hvalica was convicted here for his words and then carried out the judgment by publishing the judgment in Del, but the work of the faxed sentence diminished the debtor's name and lawyer [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u53	Mr Jerovšek, this too goes beyond the report [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u54	No, no, these are human rights, matter of human rights. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u55	But we're staying on the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u56	Yeah, he's talking about executions here. I'm sorry. You got me confused. It's not right. In fact, the lawyer who orders court judgments has such power has achieved that over two instances of court without informing Ivo Praise that someone has complained that he is in court again [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The sentence of five million and the judgment was adopted on 6 January and received two days prior to the trial, so no reaction was possible. [[...]] And they settled on his pension, they put him in existential danger, and I must say before this assembly that I fear that he was completely broken, that his life was threatened, that he was despondent, and this is a disgrace to Slovenia. And if no one will react without having been informed that a lawyer has brought an action against him through two stages of the court, I wonder if you have had such cases that the defendants have not been informed that they are being dealt with in order to obtain only a sentence of execution and judgment. Ask yourself, take action in this case, because obviously this is a project designed to block Members' mouth. How he breaks a man who has advocated positive values in public. And there's a third area. This year, something is written about the damage caused to the bankruptcy creditors in Maribor's affairs. I think I warned you about that last year. But it's a delayed reaction. When this happened, there was no reaction. I also very much miss what I warned last year, we warned last year, and we also wanted a decision on the cell affair on cancerous swabs before last year. We know that the Honorable Judgment has only given public warning to those who are guilty, and I think it was a crime. That case is a crime against humanity. That's not what the guardian's talking about. It also does not address the misuse of humanitarian money by the President of the Red Cross, Mr Jelenić. It does not address the fact that the Slovenian courts have washed this stain by non-sanctioning. How can humanitarian activity be developed in such a country where this is happening? Where a billion humanitarian money has not been returned, it has been spent and the Ombudsman does not thrash. Again, with regard to the constitutional right to health care, I do not think this affair is mentioned last year, with regard to swabs on the cervix, when thousands of women tremble or are insecure, because these checks were not carried out because of fraud, corruption and re-examination, thereby increasing waiting types, violating their rights to health care within a reasonable period and to the level of health care. And of course, with such behaviour by the health authorities under the previous minister, it is no wonder that the cancer at the home door in Europe is the most common in Slovenia and that it is a disgrace for our country. Finally, I would recommend to Mr Ombudsman that he be politically neutral in the future. So far, he has not been able to hide that he is politically defined to be rooting for one, and this is happening to him in all the years of his guardianship. I think it is finally necessary, because man cannot hide his definitions, and only at work must he be neutral, and I hope that he will succeed in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. When I reached out to you, I did not want to be incorrect, but I thought that in some part your discussion had crossed the limits of the report itself or of the proposal for recommendations. Next, I invite Mrs. Zalokar Orazem to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Allow me to speak about two matters relating to healthcare and warnings that the Ombudsman has also raised correctly and I would like to stress them in particular. It is a matter of unregulated legislation or that we have not yet yet regulated legislation on patients' rights. That's a debt we've had for years. I think that in the previous term, the law was just before it went into procedure, and this law is ready. We on the Health Committee have been assured by Minister Bručan that such a law will see the light of the world this year. Unfortunately, today, at the end of October, the programme that we have on the Committee does not contain this law and obviously there is no desire to settle this extremely important issue. Last but not least, we had a guardian on our committee who was carrying out this task in the area of Styria or Maribor, and the Ombudsman had something to say in this area, and she also pointed out a number of infringements of the weak article, a patient that we do not take care of here. I think that in this case we could learn that the Ombudsman could quickly be put in this interest, but certainly this is not in the interests of the current minister, because in this case the story that takes place in connection with the granting of concessions and privatization in health care would probably be given some control and this is clearly not a wish to be regulated and so will patients with this savage privatization of health care, I think they have drawn a shorter end than they have done so far. The Ombudsman in Maribor also said that there was a great deal of violation, including in these areas covered by doctors with concessions, because after her assessment of control, there is no control here. We grant concessions. We've given them over a hundred in the last month. And of course, there's obviously going to be a big problem here, so I'm calling on the minister to file this law immediately, because he's ready, we have this information, we've seen the text in the old ministry. If we don't, we'll just write the law ourselves in the opposition and file it. Another issue that I also think is the issue of access to biological medicines. Here, of course, in the debate, we have found that this is one of the most problematic issues concerning whether or not to live or not. And, of course, we have found that at this point in time, the systemic solutions to whom these expensive drugs are available are not. While doctors are working, and when we visit the oncology institute, we can verify this for ourselves, maximally, ethnically and morally, in accordance with our own professional criteria and criteria, but it seems to me that, as a result, all doubts about the allocation of these medicines worth millions per month for an individual should be immediately regulated and the rules of the game laid down so that each patient will know whether they have the right to such a medicine or not. Even more, of course, it tells me that in Slovenia at the moment, I do not know if 20 people are sick of the flu, but this same health system has distributed the Tamiflu recipe within two hours, apparently according to criteria that were probably not correct. And, of course, abuse is always possible, so this must be resolved on such an important issue. However, I must say that it seems to me that the Ombudsman's report is good and, in my opinion, I am pleased to think that this guardian is far from being politically neutral, this shows all the time with his work, which may be a bit unusual at times, but I think that exactly the kind of guardian we need in Slovenia, not the kind that we had before and was politically manageable and always in some contexts, but one that also knows with its appearance, its peculiarity, to draw attention to the problems and perhaps also in this way to draw attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present. So the report that we are considering today, the Ombudsman's report, of course, allows us to compare, on the one hand, between the constitutional law and other regulations, the regulated life and, on the other hand, the application of these rights. Of course, the scope of this report suggests that the Ombudsman's Institute is justified, for in this way it points out where certain legislative provisions are not adequate enough because there is inadequacy, concealment, and, of course, to reduce the exercise of human rights. I agree with what has been said and, somehow, this week, when we are talking on one side about whether we will be decent in monitoring our actions, that is, preventing corruption that is linked to the succession of public functions and we have acted in a way that is certainly, at least in my opinion, does not create pleasant feelings in the public eye. Today we are talking about another institution, that is, the Ombudsman, our conduct, our treatment of the human being, the exercise of rights, and, as has already been said, how we deal with our relationship in terms of tolerance towards others. Of course, I would like to commend this report, which has been made here, because it is in verifying this report, which I also agree that there are many written content from past years and, of course, here is also critical of us, as a legislative body, that we have failed to manage certain things and also of course criticism of governments that have not been effective enough in some areas. Therefore, surely these unresolved problems are due to the content and complexity of individual content. Of course, I think it is extremely important that in today's debate we find the will, the interest, and the effort to confirm this recommendation, this report, and confirm the recommendations addressed to the government in order to effectively take action in those areas that are not sufficiently clearly defined and allow for greater or minor human rights violations. I am pleased that my mother's working body has accepted the recommendations of our interested working body, this is the Health Committee, which has pointed out a number of problems and, of course, we would like to make recommendations to encourage the government to act more quickly in certain areas. Of course, here I express skepticism, today it has already been said what helps the same approaches, the same ways to get different results. I think that, of course, with a new government, it might also be possible to show new approaches. I fear that the approaches I can follow are not and do not contribute to a faster solution to problems. I can confirm that on two occasions, so my skepticism will be confirmed on two occasions. The Mental Health Act, which has been a long-term story, has not yet been regulated and the Ministry of Health's work programme has been scheduled for regulation in 2005. We do not have a proposal today, and it has been said on the Committee that the fate of this proposal is uncertain in the future. As we look at the report, we see quite a few pages dedicated to this issue. Of course, we want the government to be effective in this and to find solutions that will protect the rights of the patients as a whole, and especially those groups that are even more sensitive here and certainly are extremely important in the field of mental health. Here we are also bound by the Constitutional Court's decision to regulate certain changes to legislation without delay, but of course it is promised that we will fully regulate this in the Law on Mental Health. The next content to be touched in its scepticism is the amendment proposed by the Social Democrats, which discusses the regulation of pensions for employees in the republics of the former Yugoslavia. When we adopted some starting points in the previous mandate, positions on the Committee, we also wanted to revise them within the framework of the new Parliamentary composition. What was the attitude of this government, we were able to read it in the media and monitor it on our own committee. The government did not want to discuss this. I expect the government's attitude to the recommendations to be adopted with positive inspiration. So let's work together to solve those areas that aren't regulated. Getting away from problems is not the right approach. Of course, I would like to see so much wisdom, patience to deal with individual recommendations today and to support them as consensually as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Mrs. Uhanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. All those who persist in this hall are warmly greeted! I appreciate the work of the Ombudsman and all institutions, which, in any way, contribute to the protection of human rights, especially for the patient, not to say, the good co-existence of all citizens of Slovenia. However, I cannot help but feel that in the ten years since the Ombudsman's institution exists, violence has not reduced the fact that the rights already acquired are not respected, that people are not more satisfied, say, with happy citizens. The Ombudsman says in his report that violence, I don't know, may have been an intolerance, even reached higher in 2004. And I wonder what brought this lovely Slovenian country to this stage. Is this the result of the work of the people who ran this country and prescribed laws, regulations, instilling social standards and values? True, violence is on the rise, and it needs to be on its toes. It's not just physical violence against children. Today we have heard that the coalition opposes the elimination of physical violence against children. That's not true. Even today, I remember a teacher who hit a child with a wooden meter in the second grade, and as a child, I felt that something was really wrong. There is more and more psychological violence, intimidation, sexual abuse, lack of sense of security, no values, no love for children, no love for the elderly, no one. I think that this is a serious problem of society, which we must address all institutions and not just the guardian. The Ombudsman does not have the best opinion on politicians either. He also highlighted the impatience of the unbelievers, and it is true that yesterday in Parliament there were many words of intolerance to Christians or people belonging to the largest religious community in Slovenia and Europe. We already deleted it once this year in Parliament, the National Assembly. I heard on the news this morning that the Ombudsman did not believe in constitutional law, even though he would have been admitted to the National Assembly. So there's no weightier than the referendum on this issue outside. Maybe something else about the Roma. The Ombudsman speaks on the one hand about the threat, these ethnic minorities, and on the other hand the people who live with them. Roma have all the rights that Slovenians have and special rights that belong to a minority. And that's right. But they can't put most of them at risk. What's going on in schools, neighborhoods, believe me, the ones we live nearby is really unbearable sometimes. They too need to be shown that they too are subject to duties and order, or we will not come anywhere. Maybe another word about the prisoners. If you're in jail, you're not on vacation. If you're going to end your sentence, you're going to end your sentence, not your reward. Many prisoners have poor nutrition conditions at home, housing, education opportunities and so on, and continue to complain. Of course, they are not happy that their rights are limited. Let's take a look at the other side. There are also complaints about workers who work with them because they say they actually have more rights to arrest than they do themselves. To live in increasing pressure, fear, and so forth. We can't deal with people who feel sorry for themselves forever, who aren't happy all the time, who are in violation of the rules of the game, it's called laws. And they don't do anything to make it better. Many people in our society are neglected, living hard and not guilty themselves of being in crisis. It is necessary to listen to and defend the conditions while at the same time allowing for as few negative phenomena as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Uhanov. Mrs. Irgle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I have to say that when I read this report by the Ombudsman, unfortunately I couldn't get rid of the feeling that it was actually happening through the entire report, to a greater or lesser extent, one and the same subject. I'm talking, of course, about the deleted, the Roma, the building of the mosque, and also about intolerance. And it is precisely this impatience that, according to the Ombudsman, now, after the change of power, after the 2004 elections, would be significantly more than in the past period. More. The Ombudsman says that in 2004 there was a positive adoption of anti-discrimination legislation and the establishment of an institution for the defence of equal opportunities, and of course adds quickly that after the elections these changes and these matters have deteriorated. Mr Hanžek apologized to his fellow Ambassador earlier, but you know, sometimes an apology does not depend, for this is, however, written in the Ombudsman's report. And speaking of impatience, there is a man talking about impatience, who, in fact, in his performances as well as in his writings, in various press conferences, could say that he is acting impatiently towards all those who do not actually share the same or at least a similar exchange as himself. Of course, someone from the opposition will probably warn me that this is not true, but it is true. Many of his statements do not belong to the Ombudsman's domain. But at this point, let me go back to the report and the topics that, as I said before, are drawn from one of the guardians' reports to another report. We are all aware, and I am also aware that it is necessary to start solving the problem of both Roma and Roma, including mosques after all, but in the right way. However, I believe that the Ombudsman should not be solely concerned with these issues, because the Ombudsman is a man who should, of course, take account of every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia and not just some. Sam says that the problem of the deleted has become a first-class object of voter voting. And he adds, quote, "instead of convincing politicians with a positive attitude towards problem-solving, they do so with promises to play not only their rights, but also by making decisions by the Constitutional Court." But the fact is, it was these voters at the referendum who decided how and what to do with the issue of deleted. Of course, I must stress here that once again the government or the state will have to face this problem as soon as possible. In this debate, I would also like to touch on the following topics, which are described in this report, but I think there is a substantial lack of space and attention. This is about the protection of children's rights and also about violence in society. Of course, I agree with the Ombudsman that it is not enough to ensure that children's rights are protected in accordance with the Convention. Children are still often, as is true, the object of resolving unresolved unresolved conflicts between single parents, who do not pay maintenance or even prevent contact with other parents. And responsible institutions, here the Ombudsman talks about courts about the Centre for Social Work, of course he says that they are not sufficiently firmly intercedeing for the child's benefit. I can only partially agree with this because it is not only these institutions that are responsible for this. But it is also the responsibility of the Ombudsman's Office and the Ombudsman himself, and it seems to me that in this area it is not sufficiently effective. Why am I saying this? In particular, because I spoke to the representatives of the PODOS just before yesterday, a society dealing with the problem of the children of those parents who are separated and who want to live with their father. The courts, as you know, usually assign children to mothers, although in some cases it would be because of different circumstances and causes - now I would not discuss this at this point - rather, if we lived with the father. One of the representatives told me that he had repeatedly turned to the Office of the Ombudsman and also to the Ombudsman himself, but they did not show any particular enthusiasm. Yesterday I also received a letter from these people concerning the operation of the Ombudsman's Office and also the Ombudsman himself. I'm not going to read all the things in this letter right now, but I think it's important to stress two things. On 20 January 2005, the Ostržek Children's Rights Society submitted to the National Assembly a request for a parliamentary inquiry into the functioning of the Ombudsman's Office. However, the request was based on cases and concluded with the fact that the Ombudsman’s 2003 report did not mention in a word violations of children’s rights in the allocation of children, dependents and contacts with both parents, although he was repeatedly warned and also widely informed by Ostrek. Let me also say that a number of children have been contacted by the Ombudsman's Office for assistance, and the Ombudsman's Office has refused to assist them in the apparent infringements of children's rights, explaining that they should not be allowed to intervene in judicial proceedings and that they should not be involved in professional proceedings at the Social Work Centre, as this would mean that they are exerting pressure on the independent judiciary and are involved in the work of experts. Although I agree with that, those who have written it also agree. However, such an attitude of the Office is at odds with the basic ombudsman's mission, as it must react in any case to a violation of the child's rights, regardless of who and where it violates them. With all due respect to you, Mr. Guardian, I believe that you have done a lot of good in this year and in the past years, but perhaps there is something that can be done even better. The fact is, the very things I've been talking about, protecting children's rights, they're not paying much attention. I will, of course, support the Ombudsman's recommendation or report, for two reasons in particular, because I think this is an important traveller who can substantially shape and perhaps help solve certain problems, and especially because I hope that in the following year, when we have the 11th Ombudsman's report on the table, the Ombudsman can also write down that this solution has started and is also working on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Irgle. Mr. Skull, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Ombudsman, respectable colleagues and colleagues! This year's debate is mainly about the report and problems related to the protection of human rights and less about the person of Mr Hanžk. This seems to me a great deal of progress in light of last year's debate. Even when the debate is brought to the attention of the Ombudsman, I see it primarily as a reaction to those positions that are recorded in the report, and not so much to the fact that his problem for Slovenian politics would be an unconventional way of acting. But I would say that if we paraphrased this thought of madness, then it's not a question of crazy for me why it's necessary to repeat the same things year after year. This seems necessary to me if there is no remedy. The suggestion that, in fact, if two or three times does not depend on it to give up then is contrary to the expectations we have for the Ombudsman that he is consistent and persistent in pointing out these problems. The problem is that those who are not concerned with these warnings do not resort. Of course, there is a problem in some parts of the congregation when it comes to certain matters being able to be settled by means of marriage. The debate itself is good because it shows that, in fact, this report is also part of MEPs and Members to be able to talk about things that are not much of a chance to talk about in this National Assembly, certainly this does not always have a basis in the material produced by the mother's working body and the Ombudsman's office. I also listened attentively to the inspired call for judicial authorities to be called upon to address judicial backlogs more effectively and more effectively. I think it's some sort of confusion of our responsibility. Why? First of all, the mother's working body has put in place a better position to sum up this call in that part concerning the judicial authorities in point 8 and which also calls on the government to do what it can do in this area. There is another reason why I do not believe my fellow Ambassador that he is serious, and when we see this list, it will be shown that those who do not mean to be serious, but do Pilate's washing their hands, are not so small, is that we had a budgetary debate where the LDS Group proposed a 300-million increase in funds to address exactly the same problems of judicial backlogs, but this was, as is said, rejected with disgust. Where is it here, I'll say, the logic of your great concern? Is the call only valid today or is it in fact permanent? And one last thing. I would go to this 18th position, which speaks of the fact that constitutional law can solve the problem of the deleted. A colleague of Potrč also joined in this way, saying that it is not as important a form as an important content. The National Assembly itself would warn against this kind of approach to solving this for Slovenia's pressing problem and also a stain in the international public. The form is very important when the National Assembly is at work. I fear that the idea of adopting a constitutional law related to the idea that constitutional law can overtake the position of the Constitutional Court; at least some draft years ago was so. In this respect, this is a rejection position. The shape is also important because the erasure itself took place in a way that, for very long, even those personally affected, they did not know about it and even less the Slovenian public. Therefore, I warn the National Assembly to keep an eye on the content of the decisions and also on the form, these are inseparable elements of legitimate solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Skull. Mr. Ziherl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! When I listen to all these debates, I see that there are still many possibilities in the field of the Ombudsman, many things that still need to be done. On the one hand, I am happy to live in a well-groomed society, because there are even greater injustices around the world, and the entire ethnic group or nationality is even more oppressed, they have fewer rights, but that is not today's topic. However, I would also point out some shortcomings that I believe have not been sufficiently processed or touched by the Ombudsman. He would mention a poster that we had the opportunity to see along the roads at the end of this summer, showing a Romani child who threatened him: "If you don't do well, we will give it to the Slovenes". I think it's quite a genocidal statement that Slovenians automatically pose as some kind of enemy, as oppressors of a minority. I believe that such a claim is a matter that still concerns the processing of the Ombudsman's Office. Well, I was also very disturbed by all forms of intolerance to believers, especially to the Catholic Church. I'm thinking of burning a cross that's not an artistic act at all. I would like to point out that about a hundred years ago, on another continent, on the cross that was burned, a man was tied up, and it was a serious crime. This is a symbol that is respected by the vast majority or large group of Slovenians, so this symbol is not used to play and make fun of. I am particularly affected by the presence of my cousins from Škofja Loka and the recitation of quasi art songs. Then the binding of bells, the mockery of Layer’s picture of the Bezian Mother of God, honored in religious terms by a considerable group of Slovenians, is also a great example of impatience and an unartistic act. Here I think there are still great opportunities or I would like to see the Ombudsman turn to these things as well. I was also personally affected by the quasi humorist TV Popper show, where Kobal - somewhere in a scene against the scene, a dog runs and in the dialogue, says, "Look, there goes a dog." And he said, "Sure, maybe it's a Christian dog." I mean, these are things that indicate an intolerance to believers, and these are things that the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, should certainly consider. Well, after everything that's been heard today that the Bureau is very selective about things, the question is, who's going to protect us from the guardian? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ziherl. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. There is only a little time left for our Group of Members, so I would like to focus on just one problem, which is a problem which has already been specifically highlighted in the introduction by the Commissioner's colleague. Indeed, the duration of the proceedings before the courts is said to be a failure to exercise the right to a trial within a reasonable period, the problem of which then appears in the most plastic light in proceedings or in the number of actions brought by our citizens to our country before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The Ombudsman also mentioned this problem in his report, he said that nothing particularly good had actually happened in this area, that no step had been taken forward, and according to my data, the Court is now close to 800 complaints from our citizens, before the European Court of Human Rights, and a large, large majority of these complaints are due to the inability of the right to a trial in a reasonable time before our courts. Well, it is interesting that today, for example, the Minister of Justice is not here with us, because it is the Ministry of Justice that is also entrusted with the relevant documents of the Council of Europe with the most tasks in relation to these problems, that is, it is likely that many of you remember that Protocol 14 to the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms has been adopted this year and that this National Assembly has ratified it at the beginning of the year. It also imposes or introduces changes which would also result in quicker proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights itself, but at the same time a special document has been adopted imposing on Member States what measures must be taken to ensure that this right of trial is guaranteed at home within a reasonable time. And I have not yet seen, nor by the Ministry of Justice or the Minister of Justice, to ever pay any attention to this. And if, of course, this government continues to act this way, then we can expect such complaints to be made by our citizens even more and that this country will also be affected. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u71	Mrs. Bebler, [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u72	Yes, I'm looking at the clock, thank you, Mr. President, that our country and our taxpayers will also have to [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler. Mr. Capuder has the floor. He's quitting. Mrs. Majda Shirca just left. Mr. Miro Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your statement, Mr President, to welcome all those present in this Chamber. I have read with interest the Ombudsman's report, which points out a number of human rights problems in Slovenia, and it is encouraging that the situation has improved in certain areas. Of course, there are many areas where there is still an open field, where the situation is quite bad. Today, many times in this Chamber have been pointed out in the field of justice, such as lengthy judicial proceedings, judicial backlogs, of course, where the right to a fair trial is violated within a reasonable time. On this occasion, I would like to mention a few cases. I think that in the Slovenian judiciary recently there has been a practice that has come to the surface of verbal delinquency through the side door. Here was Mrs Brede Smolnikar's book, which was included in the index and in this way brought the author to the existential edge. Here is the case already mentioned by our fellow Member, Iva Hvalica, who has to pay about 5 million tolars in the coming years, and he is barely left with a pension for bread and milk. Mr Hvalica will also appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. I think in both cases it's some way of extenuating these people. This category of existential liquidation can also be classified as literary, poet, player Matjaž Pikala. In 1999, Pikala was sentenced to pay a fine because he used a fictional character named Petard in his book Blue E. In this fictitious figure of Petard, a police officer recognized himself, and at the time, they were militiamen, and Mr. Pikall was suing. It was only the Constitutional Court this year that it recognized this error and it stated that it was the freedom of artistic creation provided under Article 59 of the Constitution. The case is referred back to the court, to the decision of the court in Slovenj Gradc. The country intervenes in various ways in human rights, including in the case of journalist Tomaž Ranca. First, she intervened in the rights of the journalist through the police because two days before the decision of the investigating judge, Mr Drago Kos, who sat here two days ago on this balcony, obtained extracts from the telephone calls of journalist Ranc. Two days later, the investigating judge wrote an illegal decision and thereby again violated Mr Ranc's human rights. The European case-law 'Melone vs. Great Britain' is known to speak precisely of a violation; and this happened 20 years ago that it is a violation of fundamental human rights if the State or the police, without the consent of the affected person, obtains such information. I think that we will be able to be united slowly, that even the Slovenian judiciary, the Slovenian judges break the laws or put themselves above the laws. We will also have to ask ourselves once about the moral qualities of some Slovenian judges and some Slovenian lawyers. Let us recall only a week ago the performance in Portorož, when Mr Bogdan Barovic's statements were accompanied by whistling, grumbling and noisy opposition. Finally, the Slovenian public opinion places the Slovenian judiciary right on the tail, the last place of the reputation of institutions in Slovenia. Slovenian justice will have to ask why this is the case. But probably people see in these public surveys or polls the only way to say their disagreement or their attitude towards the Slovenian judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well, let me start with what I said last night, and I got a reprimand from you that I abused the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. Today's debate convinces me that a brief lesson on what impatience in society is as a phenomenon is essential to this national assembly in order to distinguish between what intolerance is and what we imagine to be intolerance. To talk about being impatient with someone else is not impatient, but this phenomenon must also be named, whether it likes the name or not. Now I would like to go to another, including such a general impression in this debate. We have considered several reports of the Ombudsman this time, which I am a Member of Parliament. And one of them reminds me of the Ombudsman's metaphor for his work that the Ombudsman must be an amplifier to the voice of weakness. And that's how I understand the guardian's work. And so I understand and assess the quality of the Ombudsman's report, and I also add that I am aware of the first level of action of the Ombudsman, that his report and his work can reflect the applications that the Ombudsman receives. How someone is taught about when his rights are being violated, when everything could be complained about, but the other thing is that I am personally being pursued by every violation of human rights. However, I do not deny the right of the Ombudsman to draw attention to those social movements which he also sees as discriminatory or as human rights violations, even though he has not received any individual application for this. This is his right, it is within the framework of promotions and human rights education. How different we can look at the same problems, I will quote just two minutes from today's hearing. Mr State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice, when speaking about the government's opinion, spoke about the direct idyllic conditions of co-existence in the Brussels school between the majority and the Roma population, at least it was not detectable when representatives of the Commissioner for Human Rights visited Slovenia and reviewed how we met the Commissioner's warnings in Slovenia. Madam Vice-President of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities drew attention to the incoherence of the environment in which the majority of the population lives together with the Roma population. Now who is the one who will be right in this situation? We read the same report, and we do not find any record of the Ombudsman pointing out that violence is a very comprehensive phenomenon in this society and that there are also reports of violence between peers. My colleague Mikolić had a very effective performance on this and very effectively protested that some categories and some problem were not in the Ombudsman's report. At the same time, he overlooked that the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities has proposed a recommendation to the National Assembly, which speaks about this particular group of people, and the Social Democrats Group has now invited you to accept and support a recommendation that speaks about exactly what Comrade Ljubo Germić has also pointed out, we have experienced on the Committee on Work, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, when the problems of a group of people of the ruling coalition did not want to go on and it was very difficult to understand the pressures that were presented to us there by the representatives of this group of people. And I could also list things for you, but just patience needs to be read, because in my opinion of the seriousness of the problem, the amount of words you use is not talking, but saying everything else. Therefore, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that at the meeting of the Commission we had in the hands of proposal 32 of the recommendations to which Mrs Irgl has tabled a proposal for corrections on behalf of the Group of Members and Members of the Social Democratic Party, I am sorry, the Slovenian Democratic Party - an old habit, an iron shirt - would be said in accordance with our negotiations. And what happened? The recommendations or corrections proposed were accepted by all. But all these corrections have gone in the direction of bliss. If we said to the government, let's say -- let's just say -- let's just say, "let's make the law," they said, or now it's written in our recommendations, "we can study the possibility of legal regulation" [[I'm talking about a Roma problem.]] . The talk was that the coalition did not oppose the prevention of corporal punishment of children. But the SDS proposed an amendment that we deleted in the 31st Recommendation, as suggested that the government prepare a law that specifically regulates or systematically addresses the problem of domestic violence and prohibits the corporal punishment of children. Now read what is now in the recommendation. So, you know, sometimes the truth hurts. Now you have a recommendation that says, "There is a power to draw up a system law that specifically regulates the problem of domestic violence and proposes appropriate solutions." I believe that it is possible for a very sensitive topic to prohibit corporal punishment by law, but in some countries in Europe they have already been able to do so and to resolve it properly. But this does not concern such problems as our opposition to why we would solve it in this way is shown there. I think the Ombudsman has also set up a mirror for the National Assembly. On page 12 - I hope that I remember correctly - the Ombudsman's report says that probably the National Assembly, when it adopted the amendments to Article 43 of the Constitution, did not really mean it if we judge under certain other provisions or some other solutions. By the way, what am I getting at? This year, this same National Assembly passed a law on local elections, in which we adopted a ridiculous provision that at least 20% of the second-sex representatives should be included in the lists, because it is understood that it is women, because they are underrepresented in politics, and the hindrance is replaced by every third place in which the candidate list should be on the candidate list, I stress, on the candidate list of women. In fact, it is a school hour out of tolerance and out of consideration for equal opportunities. And reading the magnetogram, what we heard about women in politics in the debate at the time! I am very sorry to find that the same Members are acting very double-mindedly on individual working bodies. On the Committee on Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, a proposal for a law that took 40% of the quota was fully supported, and on the Committee on Local Self-Government the same people voted differently. That's how it is, that's the state of things. And don't be sensitive and angry if someone tells you that's true. I think that some ignorance or ignorance is not a sin in itself, but it is a sin to persist in this ignorance that I have been taught. And I would like to see the Ombudsman's report respond to you, dear colleagues and colleagues, by seriously considering what some of the working bodies in this national council should do in order to do something about themselves as the highest legislative authority to improve the situation. I have previously reminded you in the opinion of the Group that this year the number of recommendations is even higher than that of the 9th report. Yes, and if you go and review these recommendations, you will see that a number of recommendations from earlier times are repeated and that the government in the response report - this is now an interesting reading - on page 91, for example, on very important matters, with important calls, says that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with all ministries and government services, is working to ensure that decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia establishing the unconstitutionality of laws and regulations are implemented in a timely manner. Yes, I can only applaud this, but at the same time we find that the situation is still not such that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are taken and adopted by the relevant laws. However, I think it is up to the government to propose appropriate solutions. And here I could quote you another thing, which is what the response report says. And I will end with regret that there were no qualified representatives of the government at the hearing of the Ombudsman's report, the Minister and the Secretary of State - none of them were announced. It has also been said that the response report came so late that it was not possible to read it thoroughly; and I felt even more unfavourable as the president of my mother's working body when I could not give a word to the representatives of the government when I voted on the recommendations because the debate had already been held. I hope that, given how the government has dealt with the response report in this text paper, it will avoid such unnecessary misunderstandings in the future and that consideration of the 11th report of the Ombudsman will run in a different context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr. Zammernik has the floor. No, no, no. Squire Tavsh. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Zampernik, please. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank Mr. Skolcz for staying in the hall. When he had his performance, he mentioned me and I wanted to apply for the replica, but because he said so much about this thing, I preferred to wait until I came to the debate because there was a little more time left, and that in addition to my discussion, which is also going in the direction of what my colleague Školč was talking about, I would also use it for a replica or to explain my performance at the beginning when I spoke on behalf of the group. Comrade Skull, you said you were surprised by the way that if twice, three times one thing doesn't depend on it, then it's worth giving up. Far from being the point of my performance. I don't know, Mr. Skull, you know Thomas Alve Edison's anecdotes when he invented a light bulb. After five thousand attempts, a young journalist came to him and said to him, "Lord, does that still make sense because you see that things don't run and you can't figure out the lights?" And Edison said to him, "Young man, you don't understand anything. I have determined five thousand ways in which the matter does not work, and for five thousand steps I am closer to a solution." And that was what I was talking about. One and the same thing to do is wrong all the time, not to try to get close to a solution with different receptions. And the same repetition of the same experiment as I believe Edison didn't work, I think it's just an extra "filing" from the budget bag to the courts. We've been doing this all along, and we've been reorganising, and I don't know what kind of organization. I say, stop reorganizing, and let's get organized. And the signatories of this call, public, we were somehow accused of being unrealistic, and that the system by Pilate was washed our hands. I thank all the signatories who come from all the members except one. All representatives of these parliamentary groups thank you sincerely for this new, different step, it may be empty, but it is worth a try and it was an experiment. And if it goes down - okay, if it's not, we'll try something else. But for 300 million amendments, you said, we suggested - raise the budget to regulate the judicial backlog. Now we are talking about what is the topic of my debate. I think that is also what my colleague Kontić was talking about, if I am not mistaken that the work will improve when we have more staff and more resources. But remember, my dear fellows and colleagues, a visit by an expert in the judiciary - I think Mr Doukoff of Germany wrote, which found that Slovenian judges are far from working, that we should solve a substantial number of files, that the standard should be twice as high as it is now, that we have the largest number of judges per population or we are in second place. But now we just raise the money so that there will be more empty debate halls - I will return to that later - that there will be more people who will go from nine to one to work, then no more, and that they will save - sorry, that is again this finding - less than 20 files per month. That's the facts. Even in Serbia, I have data, a judge on average solves 50 files per month, in Croatian 40, and in Slovenia less than 20 files per month. Now we're trying the same experiments that we've already done, and we're also trying to "filati" from the budget bag into the legal mills. But you know what, despite the findings of this gentleman, the esteemed Doukoff of Germany, I say that this is also an unnecessary expense incurred by the State of Slovenia, that it is not necessary for these findings to go after an expert in Germany to tell us this 'face to face', they would say. But it's enough to listen to people who come by our office. A party comes to me, for example, who filed a complaint in 1992 in Maribor, then the so-called reorganisation moved the thing - this also says in the Ombudsman's report - then this so-called reorganisation, which I say would be better if we stopped it, and now we start to organize, presented the matter on Ptuj in 1995, the case started in 2002, and it ended in 2004. It's a very reasonable time. But, no! Let us give more money to make more cases of this kind, so that there may be a further case, and that the judges may have 10 cases a month! You know, the client comes to me and says that in larger courts, of course people don't know each other - Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje say - judges go from 9 to 13 hours to work and then they don't. To call the main hearings 4 hours a day: up to 9 to 13 and then the halls where the debates are open are empty. But no, we still need more money, and those who didn't support it are watching; you want to wash your hands in I don't know where, in other areas, and you're not conscious enough to increase funds to have more empty debate halls. Why isn't he in the small courts of delay? Because that's where people know each other, and that last defense from the market knows that the judge who went with the suitcase is through. And he said, "Oh, look, I still have to sell the salad, even though it'll start any time, but he's gone by one house." That's why I think it's a better way than just -- sorry for the ugly expression -- "chafing" money, looking for quality managers. These, as someone said in a graphic way, will have in their hands, like the President of the administration in a firm that needs to adapt to the market, in the hand of a carrot and a stick, and they will force people who are paid for it, with a permanent mandate - we have fortunately a limited mandate, we can be blown away by any election, the judge can't. I'm not saying it's wrong. It could be, but it might not be. But if that's the case, then it's the case that they have a manager there who's gonna say, "Sorry, buddy, you're gonna be working eight hours a day, just like the last civil servant has to do the last employee behind the tape." What's the way it comes at nine, but it goes at one, but it's paid for 176 hours or how many of them come a month? That's why he can solve 20 cases. And that's what I was talking about when I said, my dear fellow School, that sometimes it is necessary to change the approach a little bit so that we do not come to a solution by repeating one and the same attempts. I'd say one more sentence. Do you know who declared this? "The main features of our age seem to be the completion of methods and the confusion of purposes." Who knows who said that? Albert Einstein said that, it says, quite old is this claim already, but how current it is today! We have very clear procedures. The judge has to work like that, like that, like that, like that. Purpose, main purpose, what's the main purpose? Yes, that people will come to their right. Not like that poor writer I was talking about. And it seems like we've lost the compass and we don't know what the main purpose is to do all of us together. Now just a little comment on what was said at the end - that we were the ones who said on the petitions committee, human rights and equal opportunities - I don't know, I couldn't get rid of the feeling that we were being fomented, that we were against the abolition of corporal punishment. For the whole picture of those who were not present on this committee, however, it must be said that only a question has been raised, but what is physical violence. For someone - I think my colleague Rupar said very vividly - for someone we don't hit, but we just lock him in a dungeon and leave him there, I don't know, six, eight hours locked up, and we didn't do anything physical to him, we didn't commit any physical violence against him, we might have done worse than if you gave someone - and it wouldn't have been misunderstood - a slight earring. And that's what we said. We need to find solutions that will solve this too. That's why, of course, I can't say angry, as it was said, but you'll be angry - far from it! I'm not angry about this, but it's true, we're very different here, we explain things very differently. It has also been said that ignorance and ignorance are not sin in themselves, but sin is to persist in ignorance and ignorance. I've talked about unconsciousness before, too. You know, such a noble thing as love can be if it's unconscious, and force is a dangerous thing, just like the other extreme. You know, some people say with unknowing love, I love my ex-partner so much, I'm willing to scratch his new partner's eyes, all in a love-like way. But such unconscious love is not real to me. So, let me finish. Let's try new approaches. I think that just giving money to the courts is not the solution to manage the existing situation and to raise the number of cases solved from 20 to at least about as many as the neighbouring countries have, and then it will be possible to do better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Zammernik. I have two replicas, first I give the floor to Mr Mikolić, who will replicate Mrs Potrate, and then Mrs Potata has a replica of the implementation of Mr Zampernik. Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I really need to replicate the honourable Members, Mrs. Potter. Now I don't know if you've listened to me, that I've been discussing the Ombudsman's report, I've been discussing the report. Again, not one sentence mentions the issue of Slovenian pensioners who worked in the Republic of Croatia or in other republics. Something is mentioned, very little, about pensioners - say workers who worked in Slovenia and are there. I emphasize once again, not a single sentence on this. I didn't discuss the recommendations, that's another matter. Now I have to say again, not just what I said before, that I am actually protesting that it is not written, but I am bitter that it is not mentioned in the report, despite the fact that these people have been exposing this great problem or this injustice that is pleasing to them for ten years. I hope I've made myself clear now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you. Just to clarify. I was talking about ignorance and ignorance and not the psychoanalytical category of the unconscious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you. Sir, does the Ombudsman want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much. First of all, I thank the Members for, I think, a fairly correct debate on the report. I'm very pleased, except for a few misunderstandings, it caused some wrong speeches. Maybe from all of this - it's hard for me to systematically answer everything so quickly, but I'd like to try to make some important points. First of all, from the beginning, more general. It was said that it was somehow a negative approach to this report. Yes, we agree that it is a negative approach because the Ombudsman's report deals essentially with negative things in society. The Ombudsman is not a means to promote the state in the public media, but he is a means to control mistakes in this society and unfortunately people are only addressing us with problems, not with something nice happening to them. And if we solve problems, it's a problem report. I agree, however, that this picture is not an average picture of Slovenian society, but an average picture of the negative part of Slovenian society. And unfortunately, as long as there are any problems in this society, all the reports, no matter who the guardian is, will have a negative attitude. Several times it was said that certain things were missing. The Ombudsman's report deals primarily with those things and the problems that I personally, deputies and other professionals have dealt with in 2004. If no one has complained about a problem, we do not deal with it. We've been working on some problems for years, and we're just going to take them together for a second year, because if we were to process the whole problem every year, we would have a big report here, here on 2 or 3,000 pages, which I think would be completely pointless. And so it is, for example, about the problem of Slovenian citizens who received a pension in Croatia. We did this very carefully in 2003. We also had talks with the government, the government promised to solve the issue, to get rid of it only with a new law. Last year, as far as this is concerned, we have not received any more initiatives. We are waiting for the government to do its job, and otherwise, in view of these initiatives in the 2005 report, we will again say what the government has not done, however. So you don't have to protest, or be bitter, we'll do it. There were many things that were not in the report because they were either in previous reports or they happened in 2005. I will stick closely to this, from 1 January to 31 December, and to everything that has happened before or without, I will not answer. It has been said that all we talk about is the Roma, erased, mosques -- that's probably not true. Not one percent of the report is about these three problems, but some eyes look a little differently and see one small thing very large. I also avoided all these problems in the opening talk, but apparently this is a worse problem for some than it is for me. I agree, it has been said several times: a more comprehensive treatment of some of the problems of domestic violence, the courts and so on. I agree that this is necessary, we are trying to do what we can. We have one consultant for at least five different areas or three to five different areas and they resolve complaints every day and then the report is made within this option. At the same time, I would also like to point out that we are not some professional research institution that could thoroughly re-examine any area, so they are in society, in the country of other metrology institutions. It's been said several times about this, I think it's the only improper part -- at least that's how I felt about the guardian defending the bullies, the guardian defending the rapists, and so on. That's not true. Three years ago, we began to warn first that a social action must be taken, that a law on violence must be made, and three years ago, I "collected together" five or six ministers, the prosecution, the court, that we started by informing the public and the promotion. Everything else stops in institutions that have to do this. The law is still not ready, although it has long been promised, the strategy is not yet ready for children. So that's not true. This, tossing data that the number of sexual assaults on children has increased by 30%, is a slight misunderstanding of statistics. If you have some phenomenon that is 90% hidden and 10% is public - I think 10% is known as around these - and those 10% increase by 30%, you can't say that this phenomenon has increased, but you can say more: honesty has increased, the number of detected cases has increased by 30%. However, open cases can be increased either with better police work or with greater awareness and knowledge of these cases. And I'm sure there's both of them. And the guardian in his 3-year operation also contributed to the 30% increase in this number. That's why I, as far as this is concerned, found cases of assaults on children that have increased, is good, not bad. How many of them are hidden, none of them know. And that's what we can judge whether it's more or less, each one talking in his own way. But we're talking about numbers that we can pick up, not numbers that they've been thinking about, and that the guardian is dealing with defending child abusers. If the Ombudsman were only concerned with defending child abusers, they would not organise a special conference on violence in this house, they would not make a special report on family violence, where child sexual abuse is also involved, and there would not be much work in the last year's report with precise indications of what needs to be done for the victims, for the perpetrators, and so on, what assistance should be given to one another and others. And that's what we did. But we can't do the same thing every year, because then, like I said, we're going to have 3,000 pages. Well, these are the things I thought I had to explain. With regard to the rest - I agree with most things, but with some we have a different opinion. We'll think about it. We don't necessarily have to be right. If we find that we have received some good guidance, we will follow them and change our course of action. I think that's more or less all I wanted to say. Perhaps only with regard to corporal punishment of children, but more so as thinking. This proposal for corporal punishment of children is not just for the purpose of persecuting or closing someone, not at all, but for us. The function of laws is not only to lock up or prosecute or punish those who are violated, but also to have some message value. If you have written somewhere that the punishment of children is forbidden, even if you do not lock anyone up for it, the society has given a message or the state has given some message to the citizens that it is not nice. And if we had that, there'd be a lot of people who thought about it before, because everything's okay, I'd think about it. I agree, however, that mental punishment and mental pressures are sometimes even worse than physical pressures. The only thing is that we can define this even more difficult so far, and if we cannot define it, let's at least start with one step, and maybe next year we can define the next. But of course it's at the National Assembly. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you, Ombudsman. I'm asking if any of the government's representatives would like a word. Mr. Marolt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. In the beginning, I would like to give the floor to representatives of the ministries of the field to give their complementary explanations. And then I'll call myself at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u87	Please, please. Who? Let's go straight as you raise your hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you very much. [[Janez Mežan, Ministry of Education and Sport.]] As explained to me, there have also been some words about the problem of the Roma and about all the problems that have occurred recently in Dolenjska or New Town. Let me say three things about it. The first is - you probably already know - that the government, at its 5th regular meeting, 6.1.2005, has ordered the Nationality Office to start drafting a special law on the Roma community. This also led to the preparation of a basic Romani law. The deadline for adoption in the National Assembly is 15 May 2006. That's the first thing. The second thing you've heard today is to repeat it. They visited Slovenia on May 2005 as a representative of the Council of Europe for Human Rights. During their tour of the Primary School of Irslin, they positively assessed the efforts at all levels for the maximum integration of Roma children in primary school. They also stressed that they did not detect any hostility towards the Roma. And for the third time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Minister of Education and Sport has made great efforts this year to solve these problems, as he also visited twice the Roma-dominated village. You know that the Ministry of Education has also made a great deal of effort to get involved in solving this problem. What was most obvious to us was that Roma children were supposed to be included by belonging to different groups in relation to external differentiation. That's not true. They are included exclusively in terms of levels of knowledge, i.e. exclusively after what is required and recorded in the law. As I live in the vicinity of this settlement and drive by very often, I also notice that the situation is being regulated, improved and that the ministry is particularly looking out for a positive solution to the problem that has recently erupted in Dolenjska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Meezan. Next, Mr. Bručan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. I would answer the two things that have been discussed here today. With regard to the Law on Mental Health, I would like to explain that the law is in the final stage of preparation and that we have succeeded in reaching some conclusions after a considerable amount of long-term coordination, which I hope will be acceptable to the widest possible circle. It is true, however, that this law has been in preparation for a long time, that in the past it was not even possible to prepare it for some form that would ensure as much consensus as it did. On the other hand, it is true that many of the professional problems had to be solved so that we could reach this consensus, which is now before us, so that I can promise that this law will soon be brought to justice. And the other thing is, as far as the law on patients' rights is concerned. Some of the problems encountered by patients and their relatives and other healthcare users are mentioned here, and the report focuses on the fact that patients do not get the desired information and do not know who to turn to for explanations and if they are dissatisfied with who to complain to. The problem for the patient is also an insight into his or her own medical records. The Ministry will regulate these areas by law on the rights of patients or on the rights of the patient. The Law on these rights provides for respect for the principles of patient rights, as set out in the European Charter on the Rights of Patients; it also provides for a complaint procedure in such a way as to enable the complaints to be resolved quickly so that they can be resolved where they occurred. The special guardian of the patient's rights does not provide for the law, but provides for representatives of the patient's rights. The envisaged deadline for the adoption of this law is at the end of this year, with a period of about one month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Brucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u92	[[Marjeta Cotman from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs.]] At the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we are not at all satisfied when we find ourselves among those who are warned by the Ombudsman about certain irregularities, and we are trying to eliminate these irregularities. Thus, at the beginning of the year, we are coming to an end for 2003 and now for 2004 as well. I would like to stress in particular the problem of domestic violence, which has been repeatedly exposed today. A national programme for the prevention of domestic violence is in preparation and will also serve as the basis for the law on the prevention of domestic violence. Since violence has been present in our society for several years, and since the Ministry is aware of these problems, we have taken an immediate approach to solving the problem in practice. So this year, at the Social Work Centres, we hired 12 co-ordinators dealing with the problem of domestic violence, in setting up a community of violence in the family, and we are connected with social work centres and police regarding the enforcement of a measure of approximation to a particular person or a specific place. And so this year, 101 measures have already been taken against perpetrators, including perpetrators of violence. In the press, we have provided a bank dedicated to primary school students, which they will receive at the end of November on the day of the children's day. The box will provide useful information for children on how to fight violence or how to prevent violence. With regard to the protection of children in the area of family issues, we have organised several interdepartmental meetings, both with the courts, the centre for social work, the prosecution and the police, where we have reminded them of the proper implementation of the law on marriage and family relations relating to the protection of children's rights and the situation of children. Here we have drawn particular attention to the respect of the child's opinion and also to the position of the child's confidant, but we have called on all cases, both administrative and judicial, to make matters in which the child is involved a priority. That is why we have also introduced a priority solution to all procedures at the Ministry, and I think we have been successful so far, so to speak, in this regard. Regarding the problem of the pensions of those citizens who have reached working age in other republics, I must say that this is a very complex issue, because we have citizens who have retired before 1991 who have a special position after 1991. Here is a group of citizens who are bound by the agreement with Croatia and Macedonia, and all of them point out the problems. All these problems are not covered in the Ombudsman's report. We are aware of them ourselves and will try to solve these problems with legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Cotman. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u94	From the Ministry of Environment and the space I come from, of course, I would like to say first that the government's response report also reflects the assessments and data concerning the housing area, as presented in the Ombudsman's report. In view of today's debate, however, I would like to say the following, which highlighted some content from the residential area, denationalised housing, the resolution of young people and also a group of former housewives. The position of tenants of denationalised dwellings, as defined in the Housing Act, follows originally the concept of denationalisation. The position of the resource from which I come, in this regard, is to maintain all the material incentives for replacement privatisation that have been exploited by more than 2 000 tenants so far, and this has also been consolidated in the budget balance and budget policy proposals for the next two years. On the other hand, we see as extremely important that, by complementing normative solutions in this area aimed both at tenants and owners of denationalised apartments, we try to follow the two interests as closely as possible; on the one hand, the tenants want to privatize the apartment, on the other hand, with owners and the desire for profit. This is said to be somewhat double: additional normative solutions to improve the relationship between owners and tenants of these apartments and, on the other hand, fiscal support to strengthen interest in the solution so far. With regard to young families, the definition of the Ministry of Environment and Space is solid in this respect, in order to complement legislation, which has also been reflected in the design of budgetary policy, in taking up the Ministry in these contexts, it is necessary to provide subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue. As regards the group of former tenants, it was found, by definition, that the analysis of the effects of housing policy on individual segments found it necessary to re-examine and upgrade existing legal solutions in this light. And in this direction, the first interview of my Minister, Mr Podobnik, with representatives of the initiative committee of former janitors was already done. This will certainly be one of the content to be studied or proposed solutions in the additions to housing legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr Baic, from the Ministry of Environment and Space. The word has magic. Rap from the Ministry of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I would like to give only two additional explanations, but they are binding on the proposal for recommendations on the government's activities or specifically on the change of electoral legislation by our ministry. A working group was appointed within the Ministry to prepare an amendment or amendments to the referendum electoral legislation. This working group is also aware of or is aware of the accessibility of voters for disabled persons, and in the package of prepared solutions or changes there is also a solution which requires the District Election Commission to designate at least one electorate to be available to the disabled. The second part, however, relates to the removal of administrative backlogs. I would like to say that there is currently a cross-cutting coordination within the government of the programme of measures to remove administrative barriers and one of the fundamental, first measures will also be the abolition of administrative backlogs, and this part will also be introduced into the government's work programme next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you, Mag. It's the tail. Mr Marolt from the Ministry of Justice also has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. As regards justice and a very interesting debate today, I would stress that the government and the Ministry of Justice are aware of the difficult situations in the area of justice and judicial backlogs. However, it should be pointed out that it is the legacy or mortgage of the past, including inadequate and ineffective judicial reforms in 1994 and 1995, when the judicial backlog actually began to increase. As regards the resolution of open court files, the resolution of judicial backlogs, this is solely the task and responsibility of the judges, the Presidents of the courts and the judicial staff, because they have to deal with specific judicial files, both regular and backlog, and they have to solve these files, no one else. This is the task and responsibility of the third independent and independent branch of the judiciary. However, the Government or the Ministry of Justice, as well as Parliament, are striving to adopt a number of amendments to the laws - many laws have been passed in this House since this year in the field of justice, many procedures are open, many laws are passed, honourable Members and Members, in the field of justice just this week - to simplify the proceedings both before the courts and in the judiciary, to become faster and to rationalise. In this regard, I would stress that we are also planning to amend enforcement legislation in the coming year. The fact is, in the field of execution, there are the greatest judicial backlogs. Just because the enforcement procedures are long-term, we will propose an amendment to the law that will help shorten procedures and pay creditors faster. As regards the trial within a reasonable time frame and the proposal by the Member, Mrs Darje Lavtijar Bebler, I would like to point out that we have also expected the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg on the Lukend case at the Ministry of Justice. We are aware of this and will also prepare a bill in the coming year to deal with the issue of settlement and payment of compensation, both in national legislation, so that this can be decided here, in the Republic of Slovenia, faster and more effectively. With regard to long-term administrative procedures or administrative disputes, it is also envisaged to amend the Administrative Dispute Act in the following year in terms of reorganisation and simplification of administrative disputes, where the backlog is also increasing. But the fact is, the magic formulas, so that the backlogs can be saved overnight or in one year, are nowhere in Europe and, unfortunately, we cannot solve this in Slovenia in a few years. As far as the government's report or opinion on controls is concerned. The fact is that this week you are adopting, honourable Members and Members, an amendment to the Notariat Act, which will allow more effective supervision of the work of notaries and also of the work of the notary authorities, i.e. the work of the Notary Chamber. With regard to the issue of the supervision of the work of the executives, this monitoring is carried out this year and will be carried out more intensively in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Marolt. This concludes the debate on the report and the proposal for recommendations. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, to be led by the review of the amendments of 26 October 2005. In doing so, I remind you that the LDS and DeSUS no longer have the time available for discussion. First of all, I am putting to the debate the first chapter and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you very much. In this recommendation, ladies and gentlemen, we refer to the government's response report, which on pages 11 and 12 points out that the Nationality Office at the Institute for Nationality Affairs has ordered the production of a study which points out the Government's obligation to gradually approach the situation of our citizens who are members of the former Yugoslavia. We also have some documents from international organisations that point to this. I would not list and I think it is also in the form of a recommendation to the Government which needs to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss this amendment? I am closing the debate and moving on to the second chapter, which I am putting to the debate the second chapter and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The representative of the Ministry of Public Administration has just said that the government is aware of the obligations regarding electoral legislation. A very similar problem is with the referendum law when spring - I think February - falls a one-year deadline for implementation, and here is just our warning that it also shows that it should be included in the guidelines. The contents, I think, can't be disputed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you, Mr. Run. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the fifth chapter and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The representative of the Ministry has just fully confirmed the eligibility of these warnings. He said that with regard to housewives they were aware of the need to study - and also nothing more than to study it, it does not say here - the situation of the housewives. He said that they are aware that, with regard to tenants of former denationalised dwellings, it is right to seek additional regulatory solutions - I agree - in particular in terms of the forms of privatisation of these dwellings, and I think that, given that 10 years of these issues are being drawn up and we are constantly finding that there are certain problems in this area, it is right that these supplements are being adopted. In particular, since in one of the last decisions relating to housing issues, the Constitutional Court ruled that the content of the housing law should already be paid by the descendants of tenants in denationalised apartments, making their situation significantly worse, and probably even in the light of the promises made in the 1991 housing law, the issue must also be examined. Nothing more than an examination, however, is proposed by this amendment to the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Run. This concludes the debate on this chapter and the amendment and puts to the debate the new chapter 5a of the Social Democrats' Group's amendment. Who wants a word? Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The difference between the proposal here and the conclusions of the Ministry of Environment and Space is only that it said that new solutions should be found for young families, here the proposal is somewhat broader and concerns the socially acceptable burden on the accessibility of all segments of the population with regard to the acquisition of housing. If it is too wide to propose otherwise, we believe that in the area of providing housing for young and socially weak families there is a need for new reflections, because otherwise we will come into a situation where it will be the most difficult to provide for these families, it will be difficult to buy apartments and rent if it is established on the basis of economic rents, I doubt that it will contribute to the rescue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Run. Does he want a representative of the government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Now, the starting point of the government's housing policy is essentially, if I narrow this down to one sentence, some effective care that should not be passed by any group, but it is clear that society can move differently on individual segments of the objective. And, of course, in the government's response report to these most important problems of housing groups in our country, of course, strong support and guidance was given on how to build complementarities to the improvement of housing legislation and also on how to apply this in the country's budgetary policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Anyone else want to discuss this chapter and this amendment? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and put to the debate chapter seven and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to ask you to follow the proposal for a correction. It's not the text in 16. It's the text in point 21, it's our mistake and I hope you'll take it for granted. This is the only proposal where we believe that the proposed recommendations of the parent's working body would be modified rather than supplemented. The content of this amended dictatorship is, I hope, literally the same as the last decision adopted by the parent working body, namely, the Labour Committee, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled, in relation to the issue of the pensions of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who acquired part of the working age in companies in Slovenia that were originally from other republics, or obtained part of the working age in other republics, in their companies, in the former Yugoslavia, it is said, before 25.6.1991, and their problem of ensuring a comparable social position at the expense of pensions, as is the case with all other citizens of Slovenia, has been taking years. I would be very surprised if this proposal, at least by Members and Members, would not say government, would not be supported because the last debate on this issue, as has been pointed out today, did not exactly participate actively, as the President specifically pointed out. As for Members and Members, we have decided unanimously for this text - I think I am not speaking wrong - and I expect that we will be the same at today's meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Run. Anyone else would like to discuss the amendment to chapter 7, which amends chapter 21? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments and the proposal for recommendations will be decided today, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 20th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.05 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. I thank all the participants and guests. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ORGANISATION AND FINANCING OF EDUCATION AND EDUCATION LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Dr. Slavko Gabr. With regard to this law, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the applicants, Mr Mohet, for an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u112	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! We have before us the proposal to supplement the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We decided to do so because we know that the school calls for certain amendments to the law. Although the recent system of appointment of directors and directors worked well, due to some controversial appointments or no names of directors and directors by the current minister, and also on the basis of a request from the Slovenian Association of Directors addressed to all parliamentary parties, we proposed some urgent amendments by law. With them, we try to enable the system of appointment of directors and directors to be upgraded. The bill is short, it has two articles. In Article 1, we propose to complement that part of the regime which speaks of the issue of consent by the Minister or Minister. The draft law states that the Minister shall issue the consent referred to in the preceding paragraph if the candidate meets the conditions for appointment by law, if the opinion of the educational or teaching council on the proposed candidate or candidate is positive and has been adopted by a majority of the votes of all members of the assembly and if the candidate is not in suspension under Article 16 of the School Inspection Act. If the Minister or the Minister decides not to issue his consent, he must explain his decision. This is the essence of the proposed changes. The bill before us is a premeditated self-restraint of power, it takes on the burden of ministers and sets out the procedure more clearly. We believe that the solutions proposed are complementary to the current regulation that we know and have successfully implemented in Slovenia for the past decade. As candidates, we have also demonstrated our readiness on the home committee to agree on possible amendments to this law, but the coalition for such upgrading has not shown any particular interest. We have stressed that we cannot agree to reduce the importance of teachers and educators in appointing principals or principals because we know that it is important for the principal or principal to have at least half the support of the group that will lead him. We also believe that it is necessary to maintain the system's partnership composition on the one hand by the local community when it comes to kindergartens and primary schools, the country when it comes to secondary schools and employees and parents when it comes to collectives and children. The three-way structure is logically exposed and also known in other European countries. Let me remind you that in Slovenia, they have already tested the system in which the Minister gave prior consent to the directors and principals, but only after this sign that they received from the Ministry was appointed or not appointed to this place - it has not proved to be the best, so we do not want to go back to it. It is also unacceptable for us to leave the appointment of directors and directors in the hands of the local community, because this would constitute a complete politicisation of education. We want our proposal to be supported by the law, although the mother's working body believes that the bill is not suitable for further consideration and the Ministry of Education and Sport has been promising for some time to prepare its solution. Since it has not yet done so, despite more than 200 experts employed at the Ministry, I propose that, at least for a time when these solutions will not yet be available, we accept our solution, which is premeditated and builds up a successful and good system of appointment and allows managers to make their way out of the hardships they are currently experiencing. In democracy, we know, the majority decides by taking into account minority views, if this is not the case, instead of the democracy of tyranny, and I would ask you, my respectable colleagues and colleagues, if the Ministry has not been able to solve this problem within one year, on behalf of all those people who are at school, on behalf of all the principals and principals, not to support the decision of the mother's labour force and to at least allow us a second reading of the law. As I have said before, we are prepared to cooperate that, since this law has only two articles, the second article provides only a date to complete it so that this problem, which stifles the school space, will be resolved. I would like to thank everyone who decides to do so and to allow for a second hearing on behalf of the proposer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is not suitable for further consideration. With the current provision of Article 53 of the Law, it is necessary to supplement or amend, for reasons which are dictated by practice, as well as individual judgments. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the competent Ministry of Education and Sport, in the debate at the home committee of Members and Members, informed them that the Government would prepare a proposal for amendments as soon as possible and would complete the arrangements for the appointment of directors and submit a new law to the National Assembly for consideration. The aim of the proposal for a new law on the organisation and financing of education and education is, according to the applicant, to limit the possibility of impreciseness, political motivation or other capriciousness in the decision of the Minister, whether or not he will give consent to the candidate. The proposer shall therefore specify the conditions under which consent must be granted to the Minister. In our opinion, the proposed regulation narrows the impact and responsibility of the Minister in appointing principals only to the level of administrative determination that the candidate fulfils the conditions, which is not in proportion to the broad definition of competence and therefore the associated responsibility of the Minister of Education and Sport for the state of education and education in accordance with the applicable legislation. The regulation offered by the applicant greatly favours the opinion of the professional assembly, which must be positive, and the opinion of the local community, which by law is the founder of a kindergarten, a primary and a musical school, loses its importance by such a solution. Local communities are already stressing that the current regime does not take into account their position as founders in the appointment of principals of kindergartens and schools, which would make this new situation worse. The local community cannot only be a funder of programmes and investments in schools, but must play an important role in appointing a director. Parents should also have a greater influence. The proposed regulation will lead to the creation of even more complex legal situations in the process of protection of rights related to the appointment of a director, since if the Minister's consent to appoint a candidate, legal protection could be invoked before the administrative court and the decision of the Board of the institution could be challenged by an unelected candidate under the existing regulation before a competent working court. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you, Miss Jeraj. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the event of the recent appointments or omissions of directors and directors indicating that the Minister of the Beast, with certain controversial and unexplained decisions, has established a situation where the Institute of the Minister’s Consent at the final stage of the appointment of directors and directors allows for the appointment or non-name of directors based on political affiliation, the world view, has set the time for clearer legal regulation. If the government is not able to limit itself, it must be limited by legal provisions, which unfortunately are violated by too many ministers of that government despite the signed code of ethics. Some are evidently considered above the law. The bill before you sets out more clearly the process of appointing principals and principals, since it limits the possibility of an untransparent politically motivated and arbitrary decision-making by the Minister in giving consent to the appointment or non-name of the candidate. In addition to the detailed conditions under which the Minister must give consent, the proposal of the law also requires the Minister or the Minister to take his decision no later than two months and, if negative, must also explain it. The LDS Club supports changes in the law because we believe that solutions are going in the direction of upgrading an already existing system that has worked well for a decade. However, in order to make the proposed changes necessary, it became clear with the full will of the ruling coalition, which has also begun politicalisation in the field of education. It also turned out that Dr. Beast again or again did not keep his word and did not maintain the method of appointment that applied until his appearance as a school minister and claimed to be respected by him. He was also reminded of the broken word by representatives of the education and education union as well as the association of directors. To abuse the discretion afforded him by law, he still does not find it problematic. Nor does he find it problematic that officials are appointed to the public by unknown criteria or by the criterion of political compatibility, which was never the intention of the existing law and is not worthy of a school minister who commits himself to moral and transparent functioning by signing an ethical code. In the debate on the proposed amendments, it was possible to see the categorical rejection of the bill by the ruling coalition, that the proposal was inconsistuous and unconsistency and that the solution was not integrated. We wonder what this solution is not integrated in, as it was not possible to hear one single argument to confirm that the proposal is not ingenuity or consistency. The unwarranted criticism of the government shows more that the proposed amendment is still premeditated and consistent and that, in addition to the proposed amendment, which is clearly very disturbing, the government does not exactly agree with the transparency of the proposed law, since it makes it impossible for the political school kitchen. The promises that the Ministry of Education and Sport will draw up its proposal to play a greater role for local communities show the strong desire of the ruling coalition to provide leverage for the appointment of principals and principals to local February, thus giving them the opportunity to appoint directors and principals in their image, or only those candidates and candidates who would be politically compatible with the current and ever future authority. If such people cannot and should not be the pillar of our education, it should be clear to all, including those who are currently in power and whose position of power has slightly blurred their ability to have a healthy judgment. Because we do not want to take any steps back because we have already reached certain standards and because we do not want to politicize the school, because this cannot be good for our children and the country at all and because we believe that the proposal of the law before us today is a step in the right and the intentional direction, we will vote against the proposal of the home labour body and the law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Ma'am mag. The passage will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Director, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We do not want to hide in the Group of Social Democrats that specific circumstances have triggered the introduction of a law amending Article 53 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. This up-to-date approach does not in any way reduce the severity and importance of the proposed amendment. This seems to be a very small intervention in Article 53, and in fact the amended text will address some of the uncertainties we have witnessed in the appointment of principals and principals in kindergartens and primary schools. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular that we are not deleting anything in Article 53 so that, as a result, any of the managers and principals of the institutions involved would therefore cease to be in force. The opinion of the local community in the appointment of directors and directors remains, I stress, the same as that of others, by setting out very important the role of the teaching assembly. Many times it was possible to ask what majority was needed in order to consider the views of the teaching assembly to be positive. According to our proposal, this is now clarified - more than half of the teaching choir must give support to a candidate or candidate and thus facilitate the Minister's choice in the part where it was now, I would say, the Minister's self-restraint can be questionable. What's this all about? I think that the teaching assembly is a qualified body that can decide on the appropriateness of the candidate's or candidate's professional references to the largest or most important place in primary school or kindergarten. And the mistrust of the branch in the words of those who feel that it is teachers and teachers who cannot be trusted in how well they know and can judge the abilities of candidates and candidates. And I wonder what the greater competences of the local community are then, which is a political body, so that it can assess the competence of the director or director. This function is still an expert function in addition to management. Thus, in Article 53, I repeat, all that has been provided for the performance of this function by law so far is added only some of the requirements that may remain unclear. And it is right that those who run for such an important job know what they must gain in order for the Minister to give his consent, the Minister as the highest instance - and no right has been taken from the Minister to give his consent to appoint a principal or director. When we discussed these things on the Education and Sports Committee, of course, it was possible to hear that this solution was not conceived and that it was not consistent. I think she's pretentious and consistent. It is consistent, of course, with that event in the school field that we have witnessed in the past, which I believe can be commended for its beneficial effects. However, I cannot say that some of the things that we have taken or made decisions about the same working body have been so consistent and justifiable. Of course, I am looking forward to a premature debate on the results of the TIMMS study on the knowledge of students from mathematics and science. I am convinced that it would be good for Members and Members to vote against the Committee's proposed decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again. Today's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is based on an amendment to the article on the appointment of school principals. According to Dr. Gabra's proposal, the school minister should issue an agreement to appoint a candidate if the majority of the candidates were decided by the educational or teaching council. However, it does not delete the opinion of the local community and the opinion of the Board of Directors, but they are no longer relevant to the opinion of the Minister. There is a binding positive view of the teaching choir for ministers. On the home work body, the applicants based their proposals on the need for politicisation to withdraw from school fields, so they propose, just in case the current authority could not manage itself, as it could be formerly. For the former Minister, the current Member, it would be even different that the Minister would no longer give consent, i.e. benevolent proposals and lessons for the current power. And we ask you, What sort of rulers do you want today? Cases with which they will sweep after school; people who should not have their beliefs, opinions; administrators who will not knock on the mayor's door and demand the means of heating, transportation, for the gym, because the minister does not even know that there are so many and so many schools without gymnasiums, libraries, kitchens, or multimedia spaces and modern learning aids. No one offers these funds to meet these conditions, not the local community or the Ministry. However, if a good director is capable of doing so, he will be able to do so in the congregation and continue to do so in the ministry. It is therefore important that the Director also be accepted by the local community. The local community is the founder of schools, kindergartens. With great irresponsibility, you treat the principals and local communities. The director is not just a teacher, he is also a director who has to take care of investments, employment and so on. And after all, our kids are at school. What parents do not need to be concerned about the school principal, the kindergarten, and this principal will provide the best conditions for protection, education and education? Therefore, in New Slovenia we will not support the proposed amendment of the law regarding the appointment of directors. Your proposal, despite convincing us that he is good, is not well intentioned, because if he were, you would have accepted it when you were a minister, Dr. Gaber. Don't take us for a fool and don't underestimate the current minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Uhanov. Mr Michael Prevc will speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we do not support the proposed law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of Members and Members, after a reduced procedure, with the first-signed Dr. Slavko Gabr. The bill introduces partial changes regarding the appointment of principals and directors of educational institutions and is in fact due to some of the non-names of directors during the current Minister for Education and Sport, Mr Milan Zver. Proposers are thus seeking to discredit the current minister and withdraw as many powers as possible when appointing directors. I see an even greater problem in the proposed amendment in the shrinking of entities involved in the appointment of directors. It is unacceptable that a decisive role in the appointment of directors of educational institutions is a positive opinion of the educational, teaching or teaching council and that the opinion of the local community should play a negligible role in the appointment. This simply means that in the event of a collective giving a positive opinion to the appointment of the Director, the Minister is also committed to the appointment of the Director, but the Minister is not obliged to take into account the views of the local community. This is totally unacceptable, since the principal not only performs teaching functions but also performs management functions. This means that it manages the assets of kindergartens and primary schools, where most of the funds contribute to local communities. Therefore, the municipal council should play a greater role in such important matters as the appointment of primary school and kindergarten administrators. In many, especially small congregations, this certainly does not mean a political appointment of officials, but rather the appointment of a good teacher and a good owner of municipal property. They also disagree with the proposal for a bill of law in the Human School Initiative because they are convinced that parents should also play a greater role in the appointment process. As it is said, we will not support amendments to the Education and Education Act in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. And Mr. Willie Rezman. He's not here. We have therefore concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th agenda or at the latest at 20.05 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 17. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICATION OF TRADE PRODUCTS. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ljubo Germić, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your words, colleagues and colleagues. At its 5th regular meeting on 7.10.2005, the Health Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the national assembly for consideration and adoption by the proposed law following a reduced procedure. At its 35th regular meeting on 16.9.2005, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in the proposed procedure. The members of the Committee were informed before the meeting of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission for Social Activities. Introductory explanation when Mr Dojan Marusič presented the draft law on behalf of the applicant to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. He stressed that the first reason for the adoption of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products was compliance with the provisions of Directive 2003/33 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26.5.2003 on the approximation of the laws and regulations of the Member States relating to the advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products. Another reason is the transposition of part of Directive 2001/37 relating to the authorisation of laboratories to carry out the measurement of substances in tobacco products. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and has commented on Article 2 of the Law. The debate on the individual articles of the bill raised the question of the proposed other amendments to that legislation, in particular on additional restrictions on smoking at the workplace, in restaurants and bars, and changes in the age limit for the purchase and sale of tobacco products. It would also be necessary to deal fully with the issue of apparent barriers in the premises that separate the premises for smokers and non-smokers, as this provision in practice causes problems and conflicts. However, advertising and sanctioning infringements can also do much to reduce the number of those who interfere with tobacco products. Within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure, an amendment to Article 2 of the draft law was tabled on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. The Committee adopted that amendment. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Germich. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the words of my distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As a reason for the adoption of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the restriction of the consumption of tobacco products, the Ministry of Health has provided for the harmonisation of the legislation laid down in Directive 2003/33 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 May 2003 on the association of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products and the transposition of part of Directive 2001/37 relating to the authorisation of laboratories to carry out the measurement of substances in tobacco products. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supports the law, which introduces additional definitions for advertising, sponsorship and information society services, and thus prohibits direct and indirect advertising in all printed media and through information society services, but in our view it would be prudent or imperative for the government to go wider or more comprehensively to amend the law. We are also reminded of this by the alarming statistics in this area. The 2001 study Risk factors for infectious diseases in adults in Slovenia showed that between the ages of 25 and 65, almost a quarter of smokers were smokers. There are about so many who have smoked or quit in the past. The highest proportion of smokers is between 30 and 39 years of age followed by a group of 25 to 29 years of age. The proportion of smokers falls after 40 years and is the lowest in the 60-64 age group. This is understandable, since after 40 years the first health problems and disorders have occurred. It is also true that smokers, although dying young, cause health care more costs than non-smokers in all age groups. However, the fact that young people start smoking around 13 years of age is alarming, between 15 and 16 years of age, according to the ESPAD survey, 27% have already been studied. Since statistics speak for themselves, we are disappointed that the government has not made changes and complemented the law more comprehensively. This is all the more disappointing because on 30 May 2005 the performance of Minister Bručan announced before the world tobacco-free day that the Ministry of Law was already preparing changes with regard to the determination of the age limit for the seller and buyer of tobacco products, which would be expected to be 18 years. In addition, the Minister said that changes to the legislation on smoking in the workplace were also being prepared, including restaurants and bars. At the same time, we are surprised that the proposal for amendments does not contain any civil society initiative combined in Slovenia for tobacco control, because their proposals mainly touch on the areas of restricting the use of tobacco products and preventing their harmful substances to health, as also mentioned by Minister Bručan and announced that they would be incorporated into the draft law. To mention only some: it would be necessary to prohibit the sale of tobacco products in educational, social, cultural and health institutions. The current law completely prohibits smoking in educational and health establishments. The proposal extends this prohibition to social and cultural institutions. Therefore, on this occasion, we reiterate our call on the Ministry of Health to prepare, in cooperation with civil society and professionally, amendments and additions to the law, as soon as possible, with a view to finding the best and quality solutions together, with a view to reducing the number of active smokers and preventing them from working between children and young people. Unfortunately, this objective was not fully pursued by the Ministry in its proposal in the proposed amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposer of the proposed law amending and supplementing the law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products justifies his intervention in the existing law by laying down the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. We agree and support the intervention, but in addition to the directive, it is particularly important to see developments in the market for tobacco products. In the Socialist Group of Members, we are convinced that we need amendments to the law, which will contribute to remedying the shortcomings that the 1996 law also introduced in the scratch. As an example, let me only make sense when owners of bars with barriers divide space into parts intended for smokers and parts intended for non-smokers. Since the introduction of this then-called anti-smoking law, tobacco factories have ceased to operate in Slovenia, which unfortunately was not the result of the decrease in consumption of tobacco products. However, what is worrying about the adoption of this law is that the proposed law will have no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. This can also be explained by the fact that self-advertising prohibited or further prohibited by law does not affect the sale and use of tobacco products. The amount of excise duty will therefore not be reduced, so despite the measures envisaged we do not foresee a reduction in the sales and use of tobacco products. In the Socialist Group of Members, we will support the proposed changes in the expectation that the government will shortly prepare comprehensive amendments to the Tobacco Product Restriction Act, because it is very worrying that the proportion of young smokers and smokers is increasing. And it will not only eliminate the prohibition of advertising, even if it is a complete, complete ban on smoking in localities and individual institutions, because young people smoke outside these premises. Prevention, dealing with the consequences of smoking, and our efforts will need to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u130	Yesterday in the lobby of this hall we received representatives: the Association of Oncological Patients of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenian Anticancer Associations and the Slovenian Association for the Fight against Breast Cancer, Europe Donna. A publication with ten recommendations against cancer states first: do not smoke, smokers, stop smoking as soon as possible or at least do not smoke in the presence of others; do not try tobacco and so on. Many who try to smoke become addicted to tobacco as soon as possible. A pleasant habit turns into a dangerous addiction. Above all, it is necessary to turn young people away from smoking. In 1996, a law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products was adopted, and in 2002 it was amended. The law already completely prohibits the advertising of tobacco products, the sponsorship of sports, cultural and other public events by the tobacco industry and trade, and also prohibits the free distribution of tobacco products in public places and public spaces. Today's amendment, however, introduces additional definitions of what advertising and sponsorship is prohibited in this regard. We meet daily, we could say, by advertised violence all possible forms, printed, voice, electronic form, but especially for young people are dangerous messages that indirectly invite smoking. This is not only because the law has to be aligned with the directives, although in New Slovenia we support the solutions of a law that prohibits advertising and promotion with direct or indirect commercial communications, recommendations or actions with the aim, effect or possible effect of the promotion of tobacco products or the use of tobacco. We are aware that the prohibition contained in the law itself is not enough. Every effort will have to be made to reflect this also in practice. It is a little funny to look at separate areas for smokers and non-smokers in many restaurants and bars, where there is no other limit to the protection of non-smokers than a smoke screen, not to talk about the inhaled smoke of employees there. In the New Slovenia Group, where we are non-smokers ourselves, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Uhanov. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia after a reduced procedure, will be supported by the Members of the Slovenian People's Party. These are two less important issues, first of all, to comply with the laws and regulations of the Member States of the European Union regarding the advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products. Secondly, it is the transposition of part of the European Community Directive concerning the authorisation of laboratories to carry out the measurement of substances in tobacco products. These changes bring smaller partial solutions. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, we believe that changes to the law in this area will need to be made more comprehensive. During the implementation of this Act, a number of shortcomings and the need for additional restrictions on smoking in the workplace and in public spaces have emerged. The age limit for the purchase and sale of tobacco products should also be amended as soon as possible. Nor is sanctioning these violations best regulated. As has already been said, in the Slovenian People's Party we will support these changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u134	Mr President, honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products. In our parliamentary group we welcome such a proposal for a law concerning the restriction of the use of tobacco products. Due to too drastic negative results and analyses regarding the use of tobacco, such a proposal is certainly desirable and necessary. The proposed amendments and additions are in line with the European directives requiring measures on the prohibition of advertising, sponsorship and services through the information society of tobacco products. We agree with the opinion of both the Health Committee and the Legal and Legislative Services. The novel itself predicts a total ban on smoking in restaurants, as either active or passive smoking endangers the health of all those who are exposed to it. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that there is an urgent need to protect human health. We expect that a universal ban will contribute to the positive effects of the tobacco legislation in force so far and will achieve its purpose, actual realization and validity. That is why we will undoubtedly support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank God, Mag. Vasji Klavora. Mr Franc Jazbec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products. The law itself sets out measures to limit the use of tobacco products and measures to prevent their harmful effects on health, regulates the issue of the maximum permitted content of harmful components of tobacco products, measures to reduce their use and the manner in which they are informed about and control of tobacco products. The reason for the adoption of the amendment to the Act concerning the restriction of the use of tobacco products was the harmonisation of the law with the provisions of Directive 2003/33 of the European Community, the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 May 2003 on the approximation of the laws and regulations of the Member States relating to the advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products. The Directive provides for the free movement of relevant media and related services, printing and other printed publications, radio broadcasts, services, information companies, sponsorship, including free distribution of tobacco products, and the removal of barriers to the functioning of the internal market. In accordance with that Directive, the draft law adds definitions for tobacco advertising and promotion, event sponsoring, activity or individual and service, information on tobacco products. The legislative proposal prohibits all possible forms and methods of direct and direct commercial communication, recommendation or delivery which may result in the promotion of tobacco products or in the promotion of tobacco use. At the same time, the prohibition applies to sponsoring because any form of contribution is made to any event, activity or individual who has or could result in the promotion of a tobacco product or its use. The only exception to the prohibition of advertising remains in force in the law provided for in Article 11, under which tobacco and tobacco advertising is permitted under certain conditions in the form and form of a protected trade mark in the smoking equipment and in the business premises and in the registered shops of tobacco products. They are being prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission and the requirements of the Framework Convention, amendments to legislation or a new law which will also affect the field of smoking in the workplace. The aim of the changes will be to protect workers from tobacco, air pollution in all jobs in the same way, in short, in restaurants and bars. The proposal for measures is being prepared by the end of the year. In preparing, we are particularly following the European Union countries, which have already taken similar measures and will take into account the solutions that have worked best in practice and will also be acceptable in our area. At the time of preparation, we plan to cooperate with all those directly affected by such measures, such as service operators. It is important to clarify, on the other hand, what a measure really means, especially in view of good experience in all the countries where such measures have been introduced. The survey, which also included smoking ban issues in public spaces in September, showed that 90% of adult Slovenians support the ban on smoking in jobs, but this percentage decreases when asked about bans in restaurants and bars. Some 57% of respondents agree with such a ban, but of course most do not think that air pollution with tobacco smoke is at work in this case. Interestingly, such a ban supports 17% of smokers and 33% of smokers. Experience shows that the support process for this measure is greatly increased once it is introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Jazbec. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 20th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.05. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. On the basis of the draft resolution on the National Programme for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men, 2005 to 2013. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the text to the representative of the Government or the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for equal opportunities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice greeting from the honourable Member and honourable Members! The adoption of a motion for a resolution on a national programme for equal opportunities between women and men and its structure sets out Article 15 of the Law on Equal Opportunities between Women and Men. This is a strategic document which, based on an analysis of the situation, identifies the main policy orientations for equal opportunities in all important areas of social life. The main purpose of the resolution is to set a general priority in order to improve the situation of women or to ensure the sustainable development of women and men or gender equality, which means that women and men in society have equal visibility, equal opportunities, equal status, full potential and benefit or enjoy equal social development outcomes. The achievement of gender equality is a process that needs to be kept under constant review, considered and redefined. In addition to the legal provisions, gender equality must be promoted in practice, and this resolution should help. The resolution sets out six key areas and sets out specific objectives and measures and key agents for the implementation of these objectives for eight years. Specific tasks and activities will be defined in specific periodic plans to be adopted every two years. With a view to monitoring progress and assessing achievement of the objectives, quantitative and qualitative objectives are set for all areas. The government will report every two years to the National Assembly on the implementation and achievement of the objectives of the periodic plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thank you to Master Master Tanji Salecl, Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for equal opportunities. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. The Committee considered the motion for a resolution at its 9th meeting, on 6.10. Members and members of the Committee received the text of the resolution, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Committee of the State Council on Social Activities, the opinion of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Health and the opinion of the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service made comments, in particular, from a nomological point of view, on the basis of which the Committee subsequently drafted and adopted its amendments. The Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Activities as the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities supports the proposed resolution. The Health Committee considered the resolution to be an interested working body and adopted no comments to the text. The President of the Commission on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities stressed that the motion for a resolution represents a step forward in ensuring equal opportunities for women and men in practice as well. The idea was expressed only with regard to the approach in the section on family life and partnership, which relates only to traditional two-parent families, the promotion of student and student scholarships for studies in which, due to the nature of the profession, women or men are traditionally enrolled. In its opinion, the Commission has also drawn up a proposal to monitor the implementation of the resolution by non-governmental organisations, which have many years of experience in many areas, and to provide budgetary resources for the functioning of NGOs. In particular, she stressed that the resolution was a carefully prepared document that would have a positive impact on all those who could contribute to achieving equal opportunities for women, men and women. In the general debate, the members of the Committee stressed that the resolution was carefully prepared, but that action plans should be drawn up in individual ministries and gender equality should also be taken into account at local level. The members and members of the Committee felt that new forms would need to be introduced in the field of advisory therapy, which would allow for an equivalent division of family work between women and men. As mentioned above, the Committee has drafted and adopted a number of its amendments to various chapters or sub-chapters and are also detailed in the report. They are, of course, embedded in the updated text of the resolution. I owe you a further notice that in writing amendments and additions to the basic text of the resolution, in the text of the completed resolution, there has been a mistake, because the resolution is a textual document that has been highly distorted and one of the subtitles has fallen out of part of the text that is subsequently submitted in the correction of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. The following is a presentation of the views of the members of the group. Magistrate Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u142	Mr President, thank you for the floor, Madam Director, honourable Members and Members. Slovenia is considered to have relatively good governance at the normative level of the area we are talking about today. If we leave aside the fact that we have adopted appropriate legislation with a considerable time frame, it is still important that we have the basic laws adopted. I am, of course, referring in particular to the Equal Opportunities Act and the Equal Treatment Act. In addition, we have ratified all the core documents and conventions, and last but not least the optional protocol to prevent all forms of discrimination against women, so it is possible to say that, as far as normative regulation is concerned, the situation is satisfactory for us. However, the resolution on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities 2008-2013 is understood as from this adopted normative level as the emerging strategic document, which is due to its scope, as well as to its time distance in 2013, can, to some extent, a resolution and a collection of wishes for someone rather than actual realizations. For this reason, we see in the Social Democrats' Group a requirement that every two years a more concrete plan should be adopted for the implementation of the measures, the institutions and the objectives of that welcome regulation, which can only complement and help implement this extremely well-prepared text of the resolution. The motion for a resolution is, as it is said, a strategic document based on an analysis of the situation and identifies the main orientations of gender equality policy in all important social areas. These are: integration of the principle of gender equality, work, knowledge, social well-being, gender relations and decision-making processes. Specific tasks and activities to achieve these objectives and implement the measures will, as stated later, be set out in the action plans. Therefore, a review of the current situation of women and men was first carried out and I would just like to see similar documents produced according to the methodology followed by this strategic document. These objectives and actions of the national programme are the result of good cooperation with many actors, both at government level and with actors from local communities, with social partners, NGOs and other civil society organisations and research and other institutions. It is true that participation from different sides has been varied, but it is important that an intensive dialogue has been conducted on such an important strategic document, the result of which is today's resolution. Indeed, it can be said that the implementation of the principle of gender equality can be achieved at different levels, and I am thinking of what could be called a traditional approach and when it comes to purely concrete measures. On the other hand, I think, at least as far as Social Democrats are concerned, the integration of the principle of equal opportunities by all policies is of paramount importance. In doing so, I think it is important to note that we already have instruments through which the principle of integration of equal opportunities could be introduced into all policies, from co-ordinators and co-ordinators at individual ministries to coordinators and coordinators in local communities, to see whether all the tasks of these people who are carriers of the integration of the principle of equal opportunity are actually met and whether their personal identification with these tasks is also sufficient to count on success in integrating the principle of equal opportunities. In doing so, little is concerned about the fact that the situation is different from that of the promises. I am referring to the government's regulation on women's representation in the most responsible places and their ability to be appointed. A short statistical review or a walk through ministries after the most responsible functions would show that the principle of women's equal representation here has unfortunately remained a pre-principle rather than a good practice. And it's not just decision-making processes, everywhere we look at the hierarchical scale on its top, but the representation of women in those sectors that are highly feminized is lower than expected. For example, we've been dealing with allegations of the feminization of the judiciary lately. If we look at how the participation of women in that upper half of the judiciary is, then we certainly can't talk about feminization there. Equally, women's participation in the most responsible places in the economy could also be discussed, although research has shown that women's performance is particularly high in medium-sized and small enterprises, and these are not Slovenian experiences, these are also from the world. Most of all, I think that the resolution will have to do on the part that they perceive as a problem in societies where gender equality is more a daily scratch than in our own. It is the so-called glass ceiling that women face when it can be seen that the accessibility of the most responsible, most important places for women is still something they can only dream of. However, we commend the drafters of the text of the resolution for the good work done and for the resolution that, together with the action plans, it would then achieve the purpose from which it came. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mag. Franc Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. The resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men for the period 2005-2013 is a strategic document which has its basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the law on equal opportunities for women and men as a statutory law in this area. The resolution is based on an analysis of the situation and identifies the main orientations of gender equality policy in all important areas of social life. The main guide of the national programme is equal recognition, equal position of women and men in society and equal enjoyment of the results of social development. The programme sets out six areas in which this resolution will be implemented, namely, the integration of the principle of gender equality, work and knowledge, and social well-being, gender relations and relations in decision-making processes. In all these areas, specific objectives and measures and policy makers for gender equality are set, and on the basis of these specific tasks and activities to achieve the objectives. Gender equality cannot and must not be understood as the same or similarity of women and men, but rather as the acceptance of differences or differences between women and men and the same evaluation of these differences and different social roles. Gender equality should not only mean greater integration of women, but also allow for equal representation of women and men. Gender equality should not mean coercion to enforce women and men. Gender equality should also not mean quotas in individual professions. This means that gender equality policy should advocate a genuine partnership between women and men and share responsibility in addressing imbalances in public and private life. Some professions are also increasingly profiled in Slovenia as men or as women. Although the resolution speaks of equal opportunities between women and men, given the trends, I am convinced that some professions that were sometimes considered men will eventually become distinctly women. I'm thinking of a judicial function. In the last year, which I am a Member of the National Assembly, the National Assembly practically confirms only judges, judges only exceptionally. The same is true of professions in health and education. I hope that the resolution will, with its objectives, contribute to greater gender equality in the highly same-sex professions. After all, this also means more quality work in these professions. In New Slovenia-Christian People's Party we pay great attention to family life and the upbringing of children in the family environment. And it is in this area that it is extremely difficult to harmonise private and professional life in order to promote equal opportunities for the sexes in society, especially in employment and in the labour market. Despite the increase in time spent on household chores and family care, women spend almost twice as much time as men, thus limiting them to social status. A conscious decision by a woman to actively adopt the upbringing and upbringing of children or the role of motherhood can often be a milestone that discourages women from achieving a more visible role in society, especially in prominent and responsible places. This is also why unmarried couples decide to give birth to their first child, which remains the only child most often. The result is negative demographic policy in our society. We hope that the objective of creating appropriate conditions in the resolution will help to better coordinate the family and professional obligations of fathers and mothers and those who care for the elderly and other assistance needed by family members. In the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party we support solutions in the draft resolution on the National Programme for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men for the period 2005-2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Capudre. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Gender equality is guaranteed or guaranteed by the Constitution in the Republic of Slovenia and is understood by the Slovenian People's Party Group as a general civilisation standard, in which, in fact, it would not be necessary to provide additional protection on a legal basis. However, the practice in people's lives is quite different and the National Assembly has also adopted a special law on equal opportunities between women and men, which is intended to go beyond certain practices to the detriment of women's sex. Accordingly, the proposal for a resolution on a national programme for equal opportunities between women and men for the period 2005 and 2013 sets out in an interdisciplinary manner the policy and strategy set out in the above-mentioned law, and similarly the most important international document in this area, known as the 1995 Beijing starting point for the United Nations. The resolution follows or defines 6 key areas, namely the integration of the principle of gender equality, work, knowledge, social well-being, gender relations and decision-making processes. The motion for a resolution allows for some kind of sustainable development of positive processes to strengthen gender equality in all areas of social life and with targeted or defined objectives and measures also sets out the key actors most responsible for their implementation in daily practice. The resolution, as a comprehensive document, gives not only guidance but also commitment to both ministries and many other government or state bodies to incorporate the objectives and measures set out in the document [[...]] [[Turn off the speaker.]] Each in its own field. [[...]] It is important that the interdisciplinary approach taken is also validated or supervised in practice, and we welcome the proposed solution in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the Government is obliged to report to the National Assembly on the implementation and achievement of the stated objectives of this resolution for two years. I do not intend to go into the position of the Group of Members in any specific objective area. However, I wish and we want the well-intentioned and ambitious content of this document to be understood as a minimum moral commitment by all those who, in our society, carry out managerial work and more important functions, because these people directly or directly shape positive trends in society and create and impose largely on the fate of individual people, and how important it is that this should not be very gender-dependent. In order to achieve the objectives set in practice, this desired approach can have a much better result than the whole range of gender research and studies carried out in terms of equality between them, both programmely and financially defined in the proposal for a document. In doing so, we do not reject their purpose, but we would like to stress that the success of this resolution is crucially dependent on individuals who are entrusted with one or another status in society. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will unanimously support the motion for a resolution, because the key content of this document is also identified with the Slovenian People's Party's Action Plan 2004-2008 for the implementation of the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. The resolution was based on Article 15 of the Equal Opportunities for Women and Men Act. I have heard quite a few positive words in previous presentations, optimistic thoughts, that this resolution, in fact, represents an obligation for the government to make the things written in it a reality. The resolution was drawn up at the office for equal opportunities. And according to the assurances I have received on my own working body in the context of addressing this point, it is also intended to be consistent with the government, and last but not least, the government is its proposer. Why am I putting these things out in the first place? As I am rightly afraid that this resolution will also remain more or less a letter on paper. Well, I'm not talking about it. Let me just mention the part of the directory from the parent working body, where I addressed to the director of the office, i.e. the lawmaker, a question in the paper concerning new therapeutic forms in the framework of the advisory work. This is a chapter on violence against women, which is also an integral part of this resolution. The fact is that no resolution, however well and professionally prepared, can actually be implemented if there is no funding provided for it under the budget. And it is in the work relating to such social programmes that the government is in the framework of budgets for the coming period that it is squandering funds. Allow me the answer I received, and I will quote, "The government has accepted this national programme without any comment," -- the end of the quote. In fact, if I were to sit in this Chamber for the first time and not know the past government promises and, last but not least, the outcome of the promises made, I would probably be thrilled to say today that this resolution will make the situation in the broad sphere of achieving equality between women and men really better in practice. The resolution also takes into account the problems underlying the strategic objectives. Let me mention only some, the frequent incidence of violence against women, including domestic violence, and the lack of systematic data collection, research into such violence and the slight penalty for crimes of violence against women. Systematic regulation for the prevention of violence against women, zero tolerance for violence against women, system-wide rules for the prevention of sexual violence and zero tolerance for sexual violence, and so on. These are the strategic objectives set out in this resolution. The Government is or is supposed to confirm the text of the resolution. I hope that the representatives of the government have at least read the text, because the government representatives in the same breath find that the penalties for violence are appropriate - sexual violence, violence against women. That treatment and resolution of sexual violence in Slovenia is appropriate. Yes, then what do we actually write resolutions in Slovenia, when everything is so well arranged and when everything actually works well? Where did it ensure that the resolution represents a step forward in ensuring equal opportunities for women and men in practice? Optimistic findings of the interested working body of the National Assembly, the Commission on Petitions, which proposes to involve NGOs in monitoring the implementation of the resolution, which have many years of experience in many areas, and that, last but not least, budgetary resources are provided to NGOs. Thank God, I will say, because the traditional forms of government institutions so far, the social work centre is one of such forms, in fact, proved to be ineffective or insufficient and too closed and, last but not least, subject to only self-control for the needs of modern times. I hope, you know, and so much conscience, that, in fact, every man has, even in this House, himself. It's nice to say an empty speech. Today we have heard that the facts are important and I will talk about the facts below. Let me remind you again, dear colleagues and colleagues, although we have already heard today, but in the context of the previous point or previous points. In the context of past budgetary discussions, we have tabled in the Slovenian National Party an amendment, an amendment to redistribution of funds, and from the Ombudsman's account the material cost of almost 80 million tolars, and I am stressing here, by the way, the only such specialised form of assistance to victims of sexual violence - children and adults, girls and women, that is to say those groups that are also in the light of the findings set out in this resolution, the most vulnerable groups. More. This association, a non-governmental association in addition to all other activities, also offers professional education to government workers, social work centres, schools. Three million tolars of funds went through, but also the President, who was signed under the above-mentioned findings of the petition commission, did not recognize within herself the need to support this amendment. A double morality and a lack of purpose. These are actually the things that still make our society a few steps towards European societies, in particular in this area. By 2004, 8 directives had been adopted in Slovenia and one addition to the Directive on equal treatment of women and men in the field of employment and social security. I would be very happy if today, from the representatives of the government, those who actually have the power to decide things, in fact, what the results of these adopted Directives are. Allow me, I will continue to fly over, because I have to say that, in fact, I am disappointed in some way, that the representatives of the government, the ones I mentioned earlier, are not here today, so I probably won't get the answers to the questions that pose in themselves when I read the resolution. However, I will actually fly over the chapter of the supplementary motion for a resolution, which, in fact, must be, at the same meeting of the home working body, provided us with by the State Secretary at the Ministry in question, Mrs Marjeta Cotman, the basic basis for all the further laws to be drawn up by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in the field of employment, labour violence and so on. In fact, for the moment, I should stop at the means to implement specific measures in the areas under national programmes. In fact, it is a long process, and from directives, declarations, internal resolutions, national programmes, if laws are already in place, are usually stopped when they are implemented. In fact, I refer to government representatives the issue of the area of programmes and what programmes are envisaged in the framework of the system regime for the prevention of violence against women, in the context of zero tolerance for violence against women and, last but not least, in the framework of the system regime for the prevention of sexual violence and zero tolerance for sexual violence. The table is on page 25 of the report of the parent working body, where, of course, the resolution is supplemented. I do not think of it, the association I have already mentioned today, that in the past year only 600,000 tolars have been received from the budget. That is why I have highlighted the table, the programmes and, of course, the financial resources. Despite the fact that it is specifically the association mentioned, a wide spectrum of work in the field of sexual violence, violence at the level of the whole country of Slovenia. The text of the resolution is a good text, professionally prepared, as it is not least a set of conclusions that come from practice, i.e. from everyday life. We will certainly support the resolution in the Slovenian National Party, and not just for that, you know that we will act externally as democratic advocates or protectors of the same rights of women and men. Because we believe that, after all, it is good to speak and warn people who have the power in this country that the problems in society are being resolved. And I really expect the government to take into account or know the known facts mentioned in the resolution and to take the most effective approach to its implementation. So let me warn you one more time at the end. The law on the prevention of domestic violence is not yet ready, despite the fact that the National Assembly imposed this task on the government on 15.7.2004, so last year. There's still no mental health law. It is an unregulated maintenance area, with new business criteria under the Social Memorandum, social groups of workers, especially workers, will already be further affected. However, the area of sexual violence, including criminal policy, which is shameful for a democratic state, is so inefficient and incomplete that we are actually at the very end of Europe. In this part of the article, allow me to read or quote an excerpt, you may have read today’s newspapers when I just mentioned sexual violence or a wonderfully regulated penal policy in our country. Subtitle: So far the unpunished defendant has been sentenced to only three years and ten months in prison for the sexual abuse of a 10-year-old girl. For sexual assault on a person under 15 years of age when the perpetrator used force or threatened the victim by direct assault on a person or body, the penal code provides for at least three years in prison. You know, these are the areas that need to be addressed urgently, and these are the areas to which the government cannot and cannot be indifferent anymore. These areas are also covered by the resolution, and I really hope that the government will take action and take concrete steps to resolve the most pressing problems in our society. I would like to point out one more point at the end, which, I believe, will really start to take place in the years to come or take place for the benefit of Slovenian citizens and citizens. In order to eliminate discrimination against women, the following issues are of key concern: the frequent incidence of violence against women, including domestic violence, as I have already mentioned, and in this context the lack of systematic data collection and research on violence against women and minor punishment, I stress once again the crime of violence against women; trafficking in women and girls in Slovenia, and the lack of data on the emergence and comprehensive strategies to combat trafficking in women and girls; vertical and horizontal segregation in the labour market and the growing proportion of unemployed young people seeking first employment; differences in wages of women and men, particularly in economic societies and businesses; a high level of material mortality; the maintenance of traditional prejudices regarding the role and responsibilities of women and men in the family and society, and the situation of older women, especially in rural and minority groups. Unfortunately, I am afraid that, for the time being, the government strategy or the first steps, the government's steps in the first year do not indicate that things are starting to go any better. I also believe the representatives of the coalition parties, because they said that the resolution was actually an obligation for the government to start implementing the guidelines set out in this resolution or programmes, so that this time the government would act more effectively and in particular constructively in terms of resolving the pressing problems in Slovenian society. As I have already said, we will support the resolution because it is good, in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members, Mr Willi Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u150	I'll start my thinking with amazement. Not by the surprise of every philosophy, but by the surprise of the fact that this, we call it conditionally, the woman's darkness is so much no one's interested. There is hardly a fifth of the House of Representatives here now, and if I have just counted it, there is a minority of the women's parts of the House only here, the others are missing. Probably have some other important things to do right now. But good, yet we will confess our thoughts, the first thought of the DeSUS Group is the thought of support. This resolution is certainly rightly supported because it is based on some analytical data, because it is based on what is found in our environment, and unfortunately our environment is not such that we should say that opportunities for men and women are equal. It must be acknowledged that these differences are not dramatic, as they may be elsewhere in the world or even in Europe, but they are still important. And it is because they are important, because they are very important, that we will devote, at least to our Group of Members, attention also in future areas and try to do something to make some of this declaration come true of this resolution. The resolution itself, due to its integrity, systematicity, because of the details, also due to a good target orientation, gives rise to some hope. Whether it is the hope that the declaration level will pass on to everyday life, I would not hope to express any very strong conviction about it. The reasons why I would not dare to predict something very positive are based on what we can learn in our national congregation. We know that the implementation of such resolutions requires some sincere support, not just that we will all actually confirm, so I suppose no one will hope to be against it. But more importantly, we will gather enough political power and real will for any of this to actually happen. These real wills for those who are not exactly of the greatest power, that is, those who are either minority or otherwise in an unequal position, very much has not been observed in the past in the National Assembly - at least I have not been able to detect this. However, the caution of my predictions is justified by what has already been heard in this national assembly. For example, the deplorable question: "What kind of commission," some say when we talk about a commission for petitions and human rights and freedoms. And I've also heard menacing thoughts about this document - czech, what equal possibilities. I've heard worse than that. One of the top institutions in this area, demeaning about the Ombudsman, has been deploring even some other things, such as the entry of women into politics. The most dramatic was the phrase I heard when we waited to see the light of smoke, when they chose the new pope, when it was possible to hear the thought: however it may be, whatever it may be, but it will not be black. So, I quote these things for a simple reason, because in order to achieve the same opportunities, equal rights, for this must be readiness first with us, that sincere willingness, intellectual and emotional and other conviction that this is really the need to do. We will be able to prove this here in this national assembly, because that real power, whether economic or cultural, or social, or in other areas, that we do not list, has its own essence in politics. I'm sorry it's still like that. So we are counting on the fact that the doors, which are now very modestly closed, will only begin to open more to the track. The same possibilities for women are therefore not a women's problem, the same opportunities for women are our problem, and here we must do something about it and we must look into this mirror and recognize our own policy that reflects to us. Because we are confident in this DeSUS Group that there is something to be done in reality, that the political will must be expressed, that there is also some political power to change the situation of women, we support this resolution. If any of this comes true, there will certainly be something, then perhaps sometime later we will be able to talk about less economic, social and other inequalities. Then perhaps there will be no more reasons to say, like Tanja Karpela, Finnish Minister, that the euro is only worth 80 or 90 cents. These are about wage differences, such are the differences in the contributions paid by women from these salaries, and then the differences in the end are also the final consequence of pensions. When much of what has been written down in this resolution is realized, then there will also be significantly more women in politics, then we will not reduce, but increase quotas, and then we will indeed agree that our candidate lists will be placed on the market, so that women will be equal. At that time, we will likely also recognize what some of us are writing in our joint programs, namely, that we need to appreciate motherhood more fully and that the story of the three corners of the house should be acknowledged. So this is our parliamentary position, and so will we vote; we sincerely believe that the majority or the entire national assembly will vote in such a way and that at least the bulk will then do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members, colleague Rudi Veršnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u152	All due respect. The resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men is a strategic document, setting out objectives and measures and key policy holders for gender equality in specific areas of women and men's life in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2005-2013. The fundamental aim is to improve the situation of women or to ensure sustainable development in the promotion of gender equality. The principle of gender equality is defined in various international instruments as a fundamental principle, which must be respected by all Member States of intergovernmental and international organisations, gender equality should not be understood as the same or similarity of women and men, but rather as the acceptance of differences or differences between women and men and the same evaluation of these differences and different social roles. Gender equality policy advocates a genuine partnership between women and men and sharing responsibility in addressing imbalances in public and private life. The main guide of the national programme is the same recognition: the equal position of women and men in society and the equal enjoyment of the results of social development. Slovenia has taken up the Beijing Platform for Action to adopt a national programme to ensure equality, gender equality. By adopting this text, its signatories, including the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, have pledged to respect its starting points and recommendations and to comply with its basic principles when formulating their own national strategies. Directly on the basis of the resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men, Slovenia received a law on equal opportunities between women and men. In this regard, it is important for Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, to adopt an approach to integrating the principle of gender equality into all policies of the European Union. In all the areas already mentioned by my predecessors, key objectives and measures have been set for a period of eight years and the institutions presented to achieve these objectives. The specific tasks and achievement of these objectives and the implementation of the measures alone will be defined in the periodic plans to be drawn up every two years. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men is good, and that is why we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you. There is also a presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Ambassador Maja Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u154	Nice greeting to the representatives of the government, the Bureau of Women's Policy! I agree with my forerunners. The view of this hall means and speaks of the fact that this is not the theme of ourselves, our neighbors, our customers, nor of the priority theme of all parties, nor of the government. After all, we have only representatives of the Office for Equal Opportunities, no representative or representative of the Ministry, and this is a talkative information that personally grieves me. It must be acknowledged that our legislation on equal opportunities policy is more exemplary every day. Practice can be more sad every day in some areas, but not all. It is also true that this increasingly exemplary practice is the product of long-standing efforts, persuasion, tactics and the efforts of many, undoubtedly also civil initiatives. It is also true that these efforts have been accompanied many times by silent, sometimes even cynical, smiles, when the paper carries everything, and so on and so on in life there is a stove that puts things in its place. I recall that there was a great deal of whispering and silent whispering at the first session of the previous reference, where at the first amendment, we exercised the right to have laws and other acts written in both dictionary forms. However, let us not forget that the same mandate, which we have opened with this amendment, ended with the amendment of the Constitution which allowed Slovenia and Slovenia exceptions and thus underlined measures in cases where gender equality is not ensured. And remember, two or three years ago, we passed a law on equal opportunities between women and men, a law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment, that we have an advocate of equality, that we also have a respected office abroad for equal opportunities, that we have in the Regulation, a regulation on criteria to respect the principle of gender balance, which is very interesting and important, as well as a regulation on the financing of projects in the field of equal opportunities. And remember that the electoral law in the European Parliament has brought us a balanced representation in the European Parliament. Unfortunately, we have a worse solution this year in the law on local elections, and I hope that it will not be reflected in the law on elections to the State Assembly, which is still waiting for us. However, it was made huge, the question is whether of course all of this lives in life as well. The resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men by 2013 complements the above-mentioned set-up and the strategy it brings is undoubtedly good. She's good. So far in all areas - and this is important - it introduces concrete solutions and deposits into all areas, I can say, revision and control of reporting in the National Assembly every two years, which is undoubtedly not irrelevant if anyone already doubts its width and plans. In short, there is no doubt that there would be any reservations about this national programme in the Liberal Democracy. Of course we'll back him up. After all, we have been actively working on it in previous years, including through cooperation in the analysis, which was the basis for the emergence of this resolution. At this point, we can only recommend that this national programme be not underestimated by the government and everyone else. I will also recommend, of course, in my own kind, which today, due to other obligations, has very much emptied these premises. It has been heard several times that national programmes are a set of desires and ambitious or even too ambitious concepts, and something so abstract can be overlooked and overlooked. And we have also felt this insight recently when we faced the fact that the government has overlooked the possibility of Slovenia running for the seat of the European Institute for Gender Equality in Ljubljana, which I hope will not end as it felt it could end: to write something down, to do something, and then forget it. In short, the national programme is one of the steps, a framework with which historical determinants can be softened. Why there is a need for continuous activity in this area is clear. Whoever has looked at the exact analyses or baseline for these measures that Slovenia needs, and nothing is more than if I repeat the worst, even though you have correctly underlined them today, but they must regain consciousness. Let me repeat that more women are unemployed than men and that among them are the most young, including women. And there's still 75% of women among the first-time job seekers, and that's with high education. That more women than men are employed or working part-time, and that more women are among those who work part-time; that as many as a quarter of women are self-employed and that women, although we are more educated, are present in the highest and best-paid jobs with only 33%. Women for the same level of professional competence as men for their work on average earn 10% less, of course this difference is the largest between skilled workers and workers, the smallest among those who have a doctorate, but the difference is. 80% of the victims of sexual inviolability are women. The proportion of graduates exceeds the proportion of graduates; women are 64%, but the share of women in the advancement of scientific or academic careers is significantly reduced. And the higher the academic hierarchy in the decision-making system, the smaller the percentage of women. Research by Slovenian mass media has shown that gender images are mostly sexist and that prejudice and stereotypes of women and men in society are being strengthened and strengthened. Significantly more depression and other mental disorders are found in women than in men. For poverty, single - parent communities are more vulnerable because most are mothers with children and women are much more burdened with domestic work besides paid work. There are about a fifth of women among the victims of the crime. The number of women who are victims of violence is increasing. After all, sometimes we are victims of violence and women here in the National Assembly, even though this can be verbally or symbolically different and thus between the lines is said, we are undoubtedly still only good 13% in the National Assembly, and in the State Council we know that not 8%. In short, we would like to see the participation of women in the National Assembly and in political decision-making places in order to reflect the proportion of women who are present in life in general and who are more than 50% of us. And not because we're women, but just because we're women, but because we're women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u155	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the motion for a resolution. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on a national programme for equal opportunities between women and men is certainly an additional measure to address the shortcomings or imbalances in our society. It is true that we are willing to speak about this subject over and over again, and actions that are somehow behind what we say, as well as what we say. We have a constitution that contains provisions on the prohibition of any form of discrimination, including the prohibition of sexual discrimination. We have a roof law, but when we adopt sectoral legislation, such as electoral legislation, we are already less understanding there. The shortcomings that have also been identified in us certainly require action. Violence against women and trafficking in women and girls in Slovenia are the most worrying data in this resolution. The social inclusion of women is certainly important among the objectives of this resolution. The findings are certainly correct. I am sure that a very high rate of poverty is one of the factors leading to violence against women and their exploitation. It is usually where poverty rates are high, there is also a high level of disagreement and a search for guilt, but of course this is not the only rule or rule. However, when I also read the objectives and measures to achieve these objectives for challenges and orientations, there is a general reason for doubts about performance. It is true that the proposed text is only a resolution, but I would probably rightly expect more concrete measures or plans. In the area of family life and partnership, progress has been seen in the integration of men into domestic responsibilities, particularly in the protection and upbringing of children. It appears in the use of leave to care and to protect children. While this may prove that men are more aware of their responsibilities in child rearing than in the past, it can be only proof that women are far more difficult to lose their jobs, including the fear of keeping their jobs. Well, the reasons can be different. I hope that the authors of this proposed resolution are the right ones. But it is very unserious of the country, and in doing so our only few years of autonomy cannot and must not be the reason that we do not have sufficiently clear rights to prevent and eliminate trafficking in human beings and exploitation for the purposes of prostitution and pornography. This is not a modern - day phenomenon, but it has a long history. We also need to make sure that the victims without citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia are properly identified in our country. The objectives and measures in this area also indicate partial solutions. NGOs note that there is a major gap between the found and actual sexual violence. As with the rest of the violence, I am convinced that sexual violence is also often a matter of fatal dependence, when the withdrawal from a dangerous environment means self-sustainment, which is not easy if it also means the cessation of resources for survival. And let me conclude with the opening statement that there is much more written than actually done in this area, namely, ensuring gender equality. I mean the presence of women in politics. If we were not very successful in the election, we could have better results in the case of appointments. The motion for a resolution is made by a government with only one minister. So the Prime Minister takes the initiative to take the first step and replaces one of the ministers with the Minister. It's a big choice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u157	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I must say that when a person reads this resolution, which is full of very important commas that the State of Slovenia takes over through the National Assembly by adopting a resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men, and then, as colleague Kontič has already said, he also reads the defined objectives and methods of how these goals will be achieved, as well as by looking at the practice that we have of people working for a long time both in the economy and in politics, we see that the hope that by 2013 at least a smaller part of this resolution will be, let us talk about the percentages that are here in this resolution, in the very data that we would be right to be an integral part of the analysis of the situation before the resolution is published. If 25% of these goals are achieved by the methods described above, tools, measures, we can be extremely pleased. I am sure that in 2013 there will be no discrimination against women in Slovenia on employment opportunities, on inequality in career choices, on inequality in achieving greater representation of women in politics - and that we do not list further that I will not be pessimistic. There may then be significantly less violence against women in society and within the family so that much less sexual and other harassment of women in the professions, at work, is possible. This may, but anything else, when we are also talking about equalization or equal division of work within the home, I do not believe that such a resolution, such measures, such methods can also ensure the realization of the objectives that are set. That is why I must say that I will support the resolution because, if not the other, it is a document that puts us all together so that we can all try to do something and move in the eight years that are yet ahead of us. However, I believe that, in particular, the National Assembly, at least as it did today, will contribute to the achievement of the objectives set, especially when we are talking about the equal representation of women in political life, as it has already been the least objective set out in the law to prescribe the possibility of equal electoral freedom for women even on electoral lists, has already been violated this year because we have allowed only 1/3 women to be represented in each list in local elections; we know that the possibility of a shorter variety of 2 - 1 - 2 - 1 on a list that does not need to be drawn up from the beginning to the end. Thus, this National Assembly will adopt a resolution that it has already violated by the law on local elections itself. I think that at least what it is, every law that we are about to adopt should remind us of what is written in the resolution. It also says that over the next few years we will spend about 400 million dollars to promote the principle of equality between women and men in all areas. However, if it happens as it is, for example, in the Maritime Fisheries Act, where it has been defined, how much budget is foreseen for the development of marine fisheries in the national budget, these figures will eventually remain unfulfilled, budgets will not be foreseen and, of course, not spent. So I must say that this document gives me more pessimistic than optimistic impressions and I would very much like to see in eight years that I was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you. Member Willi Rezman has the floor to prepare Ambassador Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u160	You don't know if you'd be humming or laughing, but now, as the gradation says, we're going from irony to farce, and eventually there's going to be a tragedy. And it seems to me that at least it would be appropriate, without wanting to challenge now, that when Mrs Shirca spoke, at least one of the LDS members was here in silent moral support, but he was not. After she was gone, it looked like we were obstructed by the LDS - now thank God she's back. But so that we don't just and just frown, I'm mentioning this mainly for the sake of it, because it just makes us know that we're not ready to do anything; except by reading fat materials, then we're standing here with them and we're giving security support, and we're probably not going to do anything about it. And it's because it's a relationship in a society that's not biologically engineered, but it's generated through last year's, pre-last year's, decades ago, centuries ago, that's why we're perpetuating these relationships and they're still the same. And nothing happens to us, we do not face any special break and they will continue to be raised by children, so in such paradigms they will be raised in their families, so this will spread through kindergartens, schools, primary, secondary and colleges, so we will continue to have "frightening" women and men's professions, so that we will still have different powers and influence in this society and, of course, because we are those representing the DeSUS Group, also very different pensioners. And I would just like to express once again the hope that today's presence here does not mean a relation to this resolution, which we are going to vote on tonight or when we are going to vote on, but I hope that we will all support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u161	Thanks for the heads-up. Let me point out from this point that if the number of Members and Members in the sitting room is decreasing, I will interrupt the meeting despite all the rules. As I assess and share with you the need to ensure as many Members as possible and as many Members as possible. Of course, the warning does not apply to the DeSUS Group and the Social Democrats Group. Until then, we will continue the debate. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Roberto Battelli. He's not here. Replica Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u162	Comrade Rezman, if you would listen to me, I have also been critical of my own kind to give priority to the meeting of the Group of Members before this hearing. It is true, however, that I am not critical of my own kind because it is careful that this principle is implemented; not only in its action programmes, in its rules and other formal and less formal forms, and it supports this principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u163	Peace in the hall! Let me just point this out, let's not mix politics into the content of this point. At the same time, I must inform you that there is no excuse for the meeting of the Group of Members. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Frank Kangler. [[He's not in the hall.]] Happy Friend has the word. [[He's not in the hall.]] The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u164	Thank you very much. There's not much time, so I'll say a few thoughts quickly. In any way, the resolution is worthy of support and I am not afraid of not adopting it. The problem is that I fear that too little will really work in practice. We know that today, trade in white goods is also on our soil and through our soils, but nothing bad happens to those who do. We also have a number of sexual assaults, where actors are then relatively fined. We are talking about how we will involve women in politics, but we could not agree on a chain of electoral legislation at local level and so forth. So I hope that at least some of this will be realized and then we will be more likely to applaud verbal support for such solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u165	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Rudi Veršnik to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u166	Thank you. Once again, I would like to say that the resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men is well prepared, is very broad-based and shows the problem very analytically. Each chapter presents challenges and orientations, objectives and measures, as well as bearers and indicators. The resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men can - on this subject, opinions have already been expressed today - remains only a dead letter on paper despite the general assessment that it is well prepared; of course, if it is not the right will for implementation. For each chapter, the institution or group of carriers responsible for the implementation of this Chapter shall also be indicated. Today, once we have adopted a resolution, I am optimistic and convinced that the resolution will be implemented in the same way as the content of the resolution foresees. Nevertheless, I say that it is also us Members who have to worry that a well-written resolution will also come to life in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u168	As part of my presentation of the Group's position, I highlighted some of the most pressing differences that exist in this society when we are talking about the representation of women and men in different areas of social life. And given that I am often faced with positions and with the recognition and detection of situations in other countries, especially the European Community, I can argue that such problems are not in fact significantly different from those of us outside. Of course, at this point it is worth pointing out that there are different practices, especially in Scandinavian countries, but not as an excuse, but only possible because of putting their situation in one particular context, let me say that these countries have started their awareness-raising policy or their movements in this area substantially, substantially earlier. In short, in the 1960s, measures began to be put in place not only at the legislative level but also on other practical routes that went so far as to require ministers and ministers within certain governments to take courses, if I simply call them where this issue was being raised. And to all these examples, which have also gone into, I will say, helping those ministers or women in high positions, in high decision-making places, where in those most pressing problems that women face, let's say, motherhood, have helped solve better situations in the field of child protection and the protection of these locks, which women face more often because of their natural dignity than men. I mean, these measures are general and these problems are not just Slovenian. And at this point, I can say that in these years, as much as we have taken on this issue at operational level as we once did, steps are visible. Alone or at least alone in the National Assembly and elsewhere - not only here, but also in other areas - I encounter students and students who set up this topic every day, putting it on a priority level and so on, working and approaching these issues in a way that establishes certain analyses, studies and, of course, finding solutions. Of course, the first question in such surveys is always the same. Why are you so few? And there's a lot of reasons here. When I talk about politics, answers can begin to be sought there, that politics is understood all too often than not to be respected and respected, but not as an art of life management, with the basic orientations of society, but rather as something worse; and I admit that we face more difficult women's problems here than men, perhaps also because of certain emotional and other items at work. On this issue, let us say, recently, when I attended one such seminar on this issue within a workshop in the framework of European practices, there are quite a few new problems facing women. The question that, because of the unregulated or different situation or the lack of confidence, how to solve and coordinate a career, a study career with motherhood and decision-making in, I will say, behavior within a very strong man's lobby. And statistics show exciting data, which is actually not so exciting, but are realistic, that these problems make it increasingly difficult for women to decide for their motherhood in time than they used to, that fertility is moving into later or mid-30s, and that this also makes certain obstacles not even increasing. In short, the world has decided on a number of measures, how representation should be, not only in political life but in general in public life, is as equal as possible. We should not be ashamed and underestimated of these measures, but should actually take them seriously and not be understood as paper rules, but as measures that can improve the representation of women in social life. Once, ten years ago, Slovenia laughed at the initiative that took place in Ljubljana and that we had the City of Women festival. Today it is one of the most prestigious festivals, even this year, when more than 100 prominent artists and not only artists gathered in Slovenia, but also women who deal with theory and practice in a wide, not only isolated spectrum of life. The measures also apply to catches and tools such as quotas. The odds, when people sometimes hear about them, they want to avoid them if they're some kind of compulsion that creates maybe some new discrimination. The quotas, for example, if I take the case of elections to the European Parliament in Slovenia in 2004, are an extremely important measure. We have received proper representation or better representation, and without this action, we certainly would not have a few respectable and highly capable women in the European Parliament today. Men would certainly not allow this because you have too many mechanisms to push us into another kind, and women sometimes have too little power to resist. The measures are also linked in other ways, from party statutes to action programmes, and I must say that everywhere they were recorded they produced fruit. It is true, however, that the paths and times that are sometimes far longer for such awareness in this area than in any other area, when the bulldozer power is more effective than here, when resistance to certain lobbies being preserved is much more than elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you. Member of the School has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Jerovšek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Zagorac has the floor. [[You're giving up.]] There's an MP's word. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I have already made some general observations on the resolution, and now allow me to express my personal opinion, not to say fear, about this resolution. I see it as the result of some to realize the integration of the principle of equal opportunities as well as good movements. However, I fear that with each two-year periodic plan, a good picture and a well-proposed resolution will be less realistic, and I will tell you where I see the reasons for this fear. In public education, a number of cancelled studies were read, either in the area of so-called women's studies or in the area of gender equality. It appears that some statistical monitoring procedures will be well established for specific areas of social life, including sex, which have proved to be the right way to find appropriate answers to individual identified problems, so that we will slowly give up. One of the views of the Group was similar. Therefore, in the annex to the resolution, which predicts exactly the collection of indicators which then dictate measures, I see that part of the resolution, which is more tangible to me and which I am not sure is just a collection of beautiful thoughts, principles and objectives. Now allow me to go into an area that I have never talked about before, and I think it is worth mentioning because we have often met with the publication of the priorities of the current coalition. If we look at a priority called increased fertility from the point of view of health protection, let me tell you where I'm going. See, this resolution states that quality and sustainable healthcare is based on the identification of problems and the design of programmes for the care of human health, with the gender category playing a key role. We do not know exactly what the incidence of the disease is in terms of sex in the health sector, because we simply do not include these categories of sex in the research. If we are talking about reproductive health of people, then I would like to point out that data on high maternal mortality in Slovenia is being hidden or withdrawn. We said something yesterday with our pink claws about cancer. I would also like to take measures to ensure by means that women's deaths are reduced by breast cancer or breast cancer and, last but not least, forgive, also the mortality due to prostate cancer. So I think that things are worrying enough that we should also take care of an area that has recently shown up, or that is becoming increasingly problematic in the future, that is the issue of contraception. In our society, we like to talk about the need to reduce the number of abortions. In doing so, we do not say that we have achieved good results in reducing the number of abortions still in young women, girls, so to speak. However, the number of abortions as a high number occurs in women with multiple children, in older women, because contraception is more difficult to access. At times, contraception was free, and now the new contraceptives are no longer on the list of free medicines. That's the way it is here, sorry, the questions are enough. I hope that we will also find appropriate answers to these questions. I'm going to go to another area. This is the area of social inclusion. The risk of poverty is higher in women than in men. Especially vulnerable groups in poverty are women over 65 years of age, those living in single-member households, those who therefore do not have a social network, supporting social networks. At the same time, we will not be doing much to help ourselves by making women’s expected age higher than that of men. This information is worrying that the level of risk of poverty is also higher in single-parent families than in other families. I think that we will have to overcome certain prejudices in society and find appropriate measures on the basis of the data collected and not to wave at the average with flat-rate perception that single-parent families are the result of the overcalculability of people and that this does not require our particular concern. I think that it is precisely in social inclusion that special measures should be taken to adapt to the age and social situation, as well as to the sex of the individual vulnerable segment of our society. 442. Allow me to make a third decision in the context of this resolution, which is the question of the integration of women into the labour market. I won't say anything new if I say that the unemployment rate between women is higher than that of men. I will also say nothing new if I say that it is particularly high among young women and that women are exposed to special forms of bullying when they have to sign or promise to give up maternity for the time they get a job. But I would like to draw your attention to an increasingly frequent opinion that I think is in conflict with the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. The higher employment rate of women does not go hand in hand with the opinions of some who feel that women should do more unpaid work at home, take care of family members who are in need of care, whether they are children or older, and then contribute to the reduction of family costs after that. I would like to point out that we also want to follow the West and look for a way out of part-time employment, and in other documents you can find it under "part-time" employment. In a number of segments of our society, I have already heard the recommendation that women choose this type of employment because it is more compatible with their professional and family careers. But something that those who introduce or try to bring this foreign experience to us do not say: that women who are part-time workers in the West have multiple jobs to achieve incomes that mean better, safer, better quality of life for the whole family. Recently, I was in Iceland, which has a highly developed social network, which has a high level of social solidarity, which has a whole range of mechanisms that also allow women to better engage or to better combine family and professional life, but they work there on average 12-15 hours a day and have more jobs to withstand costs, relatively very high living costs. So when we transplant some samples, I would ask that we take a closer look at them, see what lies behind them, and then offer a similar solution to us. That is why this resolution seems so important to me, because it is based on home analysis, and it would be good if that were the case in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you. The last on the list of reported discussers is Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I will, in fact, be quite brief at the end, as I have said more or less in my presentation of the position of the Group of Members what is actually worth considering and considering and, of course, adopting this resolution. This is the attitude of the Government towards what is written in the context of the resolution, which, once again, I stress, is truly good and professionally well prepared. And I will reinforce this doubt that I have expressed, in fact, through the facts arising from the 2006 draft budget. Within the framework of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the programme protects the unemployed, we have heard today that the majority of women are unemployed. The funds are cut by a bad billion and a half. In the area of active employment policy programmes, while funding increases but only by 100 million tolars. In the area of social inclusion, transfers to individuals and households are declining in the sub-programme. In the sub-programme, mothers' homes and shelters for children and women, victims of violence are increasing, but mothers' homes and shelters for children and women, victims of violence are not regionally well distributed. The Ministry does not have the hearing to deal with these matters more decentralizationally. And the implementation of social protection programmes - the funds at the social work centres are falling, in the field of intervention services from 20 million to 14 million and several million. At the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Labour, I received a reply from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State, and I will read it again: "This resolution is the basis for further legislative changes in the field of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs." In the 2006 draft budget, however, the Government did not provide funds to carry out the tasks already outlined. So when will the funds be provided for all the tasks it brings and directs to the government by a new resolution for the period 2005 to 2013, which should therefore start this year? I am confident, or I hope, and, of course, at this time also appeal to all the coalition Members who today have expressed doubts or hope that the resolution will not remain a mere letter on paper, so that they will not raise their hands so silently in confirming the Government's non-social programmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you. I ask the Director of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia if he wishes to respond to the positions raised or if he has an opinion in relation to the resolution? You still have 10 minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members. I would like to thank you for your general support for the resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities for women and men and for your opinions and comments. As you yourself have already stated, the legislation on gender equality in Slovenia is extremely good and we can boast about this legislation in front of a number of countries of the European Union. We are aware that there are problems in practice, some of which you have also pointed out in your discussions. And it is this resolution of the national programme to solve these problems, to implement legislation in practice. As you have already pointed out in the debate, the most important thing is that these measures will be concrete in practice. As we have also been aware of this resolution, we have sought this solution to work out two-year periodic plans which give us a chance to reflect on how this resolution has in practice been realized in the past two years, what objectives and measures have been achieved and what has not yet been achieved. And also this reporting to the National Assembly is some form of pressure, some way of allowing you to express your opinion, in fact you can criticize and in some way encourage the government to implement this national programme even more effectively. With regard to the doubts expressed that this national programme should remain only a letter on paper, I would only conclude that I am somehow optimistic that the government will also implement this national programme in practice. Here are two or two actions that point to this: gender mainstreaming is included in the proposal for a national research and development programme. I am very pleased, however, that in the proposal for a reform programme to achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia, this document is essentially about the labour market and equal opportunities to include the text of this national programme; therefore, the measures contained in this national programme are summarised in this strategic document. Here are some actions that, as director of the government office for equal opportunities, give me optimism. I hope that together we can take a step forward in the area of gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u175	Since the time has not yet passed, we have only one hour and four minutes left, I ask whether any of the Members or Members wish to speak to this content. Comrade Battelli, you have the floor, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you, Vice President. I'm not going to say anything new, but I may be able to contribute to the underlining of certain things. Women's equality, of course, is an eminent political and economic issue. However, if we understand that equality in this key area, as in all other areas, when we talk about equality, the ability to take differences into account, then we need a political agreement that the state is constantly and very serious. This proposed resolution is certainly a step in this direction, and this therefore has a key impact on the demographic issue as well. And the case of the Scandinavian countries is very important and clear in this respect. Finland is experiencing very good demographic growth when it has reached economic conditions for this and when the social situation in Finland is very calm. This is also about certain cultural and civilisational differences, but the product of this reconciliation is that demographic growth is registered there and economic growth is also registered there. That means - what? - that the budgets should first reach a political consensus on the need to achieve a certain redistribution of resources in order to achieve these objectives in order to achieve optimal, so to speak, social stability. It seems to me that in the last 15 years, when we are seriously dealing with everything that is possible, except that we have not achieved the best results - my impression is that society is a little nervous. And then we need a political agreement once again that wealth is distributed in a way that allows women to advance in education, that they are paid the same as men, that they have the opportunity to advance equally in careers, in politics and so on, and that they have the same opportunity as men to care for the sphere that concerns the family. Here we should probably get rid of these prejudices between the left and right that those who care for the family are right-wing, those who care only for the individual rights of women are left-handed and so on. No, it's a more complex issue that I think we should find agreement on. Such a policy would be in the best interest of all, both genders, and would finally make it possible for women to be equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u177	Thank you. This concludes the general debate on the motion for a resolution. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution, the resolution will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, that is in 30 minutes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 5.45 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u178	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. We will continue the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check their voting devices. Given that I do not see any complaints about the voting devices, we can start by voting. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda - consideration of the 10th annual report of the Ombudsman for 2004. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to the proposal for recommendations. We will first decide on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to chapter 1. Member of the Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since there were fewer of us in the debate on the Ombudsman's report, I'll allow it, and I will. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u180	Comrade Run, if you'll excuse me, please. Peace in the hall! Ambassador Rob, Ambassador Lakhovnik, please take your seat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u181	And I will explain my voice to some, not all, complements. [[...]] I propose that Chapter 1 be supplemented by a reminder that the Government, in accordance with its own conclusions and reports, which it also referred to in its response report to the Ombudsman's report and in view of the obligations of the competent international organisations, should begin to consider how to draw up a proposal to gradually regulate the situation and rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, members of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia, taking into account the findings of domestic and international institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u182	Comrade Run, let me interrupt you again. [[We'll extend your time.]] . Representatives of the Slovenian People's Party, Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, please stop the debate. If you continue, I'll be adjourned for another 45 minutes. It's your call. Comrade Run, you may be wasting your time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Now it's all new. [[...]] [[Laugh]] Because no one listened to me. You're just so friendly to those who talk. Once again, if we wish to respect the international obligations we have accepted and the government's own decisions, then you will also support the proposal to draw up a proposal for a progressive regulation of the situation and rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, members of the former Yugoslavia. I propose the most mild possible decision that requires consideration of this issue. I know that this is a politically sensitive issue, and I know that it must also be regulated in agreement with public opinion in Slovenia, but it is probably not wise to get ahead of it, because sooner or later we will face it and prepare for it as soon as possible, it will be easier for us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 37. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to chapter 2. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you very much. In the light of the first vote, I will explain my vote at each point. This is merely a formal complement to the obligations of the Government and the National Assembly to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In February, there will also be a deadline within which the National Assembly will adopt a law that will address the issue of a special previous legislative referendum, which will otherwise be repealed, and it is only right that we are all aware of this, regardless of what our opinions so far have been when such or other referendums have been called upon. I think that a reminder of this obligation, which can only be regulated by the government and proposed to the national assembly for adoption, is justified. If the Government's proposal is not prepared and submitted in a very short time, we will not be able to meet our commitments by early February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to chapter 5. Member of the Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you very much. When we discussed the Ombudsman's report and discussed the issue of managing certain housing problems, the government representative said that the government was already studying the need to find adequate complements to solving housing issues both in denationalised apartments and in former housewives. Whether and how this will be resolved will depend on the options the government will have, so at this point we only propose a study and expect that, if not a political one, at least the social themes will be those that will give you thought not to vote just because you are a coalition, otherwise than in line with the government's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u188	Thank you. Ambassador Shirtz, do you give up? Then we move on to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 14. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Parliamentary Group for a new chapter 5a. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to chapter 7. Mr. Potts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I raised my hand in time. According to the content, I think that this is the most important proposal for a decision, although not much, but a group of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, who have been in an extremely difficult material position for decades. It is those who obtained a pension at the expense of working age or in other parts of the former Yugoslavia before 25 July 1991, or those who worked in Slovenia mainly in the provinces of our southern border, who were established in other parts of Yugoslavia. The pension they receive from these republics, the current countries, is significantly lower than ours, and several times they requested appropriate regulation, several times they also discussed the relevant labour bodies in the National Assembly, the last one about a month ago, about a month ago, the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the proposal for a decision is content similar to that adopted by the Committee. I expect because the committee has adopted it unanimously to be supported by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u190	Thank you. Comrade Potts, please take my next words well-intentioned, I have warned you for the last time about your phone sound, also today I am also informing you that your phone under function C allows you to advertise with vibrations. Please use this. Thank you. Member Battelli has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u191	I voted in favour of all these proposals, except one where I abstained. Look, I'm sorry, but my experience is that I was there, only when Slovenia became an independent, democratic republic, a independent state. It seems to me that after fifteen years, these things could still be settled. My practice is that in my office I have the most visitors dealing with such problems. And yet it seems to me that one serious - something has been done, I do not deny it, but a final solution to these issues would - fair - yet, just, would still burden us with some legacy and some debt, real to these people, which a modern, economically strong country can save. That is why I will also vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u192	I would like to take the floor with you, Member of the Vebra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u193	Thank you. I will therefore support this, because the real life experience, even at the border, shows that many people have been employed mainly in the labour intensive sectors and that, even today, pensions are modest, even if then the fact that they are not equal to all those who have worked, say, all the working time in the territory of today's independent state of Slovenia, of course, these differences continue to increase. And since living at the border at the time of the establishment of Schengen standards is becoming even more difficult, I really want these solutions to come to life as soon as possible, and I will therefore be happy to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you. We're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 40 votes to 20. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the draft report to the Ombudsman's 10th regular annual report for 2004 as a whole. On the proposal for recommendations. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u195	In today's interview, respected, we have explained today in the Liberal Democracy that we will support the recommendations, as proposed by the parent's working body. The discussion that was on this topic in the National Assembly today was also of quality, although we know that reports by the Ombudsman go into the nose several times, for every time someone shivers in the symptom, - as has already been said today - more than just consciousness, but also subconscious movements. We said that the Ombudsman’s report must also be heard with a conscience. But the 18th recommendation, which goes to the chapter of the administrative case, is controversial for the Liberal Democracy. In the course of the discussion, we have already proposed a different recommendation, a recommendation which would oblige the government and the internal ministry to draft a bill on so-called deleted, which would be in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. The recommendation voted by the coalition is different, significantly different, says that the solution should go in the direction of constitutional law and that recommendation 18 is controversial for the Liberal Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u196	Thank you. Member Zagorac shall have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you for the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u198	On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u199	Yeah. Thank you. We will not support the Ombudsman's report in the Slovenian National Party. There are several reasons for this. We believe that this is a superficial report that is the result of the failure. This is certainly a very good reason, and all those who have read the report and even compared it with the 2003 report will see that the Ombudsman, although his office receives half a billion Slovenian tolls of tax money for his operation, has done nothing but copy and replace the yearbooks and may even repair some statistics. But those who have looked very closely at this report have seen that in some sentences he has even forgotten to do so. The next reason why we will vote to come to this report is certainly the controversial political involvement of the Ombudsman, who, in our opinion, should be an apolitical person, not a person who comments on every bill filed either by the opposition or by the government and adds his political note to it. We also know which party in this National Assembly is close to the Ombudsman, and it is strange and interesting that when this party proposes an amendment, no comment or comment is made by the Ombudsman. And the third very important thing that proves that the guardian has not actually deepened into the things he has been talking about here today is that sexual violence has been left out of the report. It is said that, according to his belief, there is no sexual violence in the Republic of Slovenia, both against women and not against minors. That's unacceptable. All statistics from the Ministry of the Interior indicate that sexual violence against minors is on the rise from day to day. There's not a word of it in the Ombudsman's report! As I have already said, we cannot support such a report in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u200	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 8. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the recommendations are fully accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. The National Assembly continues with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education by means of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is not suitable for further consideration. Comrade Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u201	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u202	Comrade Saiowice, only you and only you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u203	I'll explain in my own name first. In the field of education, where some basic task of this is to describe, we have recently encountered serious difficulties in appointing managers and managers, for if a boat is without a pilot, it is difficult to sail in the right direction. Therefore, as a member of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I will oppose and vote against the decision of the parent working body, because we believe that the Ministry is not currently able to do enough to limit itself and more than the principle, "the important thing is that it is a literate," comes to the principle; "the important thing is that it is ours". The criteria are not clear, they are not transparent. Our improvement of laws solves many areas and many problems in this area, and last but not least supports the opinion of parents, the opinion of the founders and the opinion of the Pedagogical Assembly. It is not right for the Minister to put himself above all these opinions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u204	My colleague Moga has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we were interested in accompanying the first appointments of directors of the new minister, because in public they caused resentment. Let me just say two cases. A colleague from northeastern Slovenia, who was a candidate for principal, met all the conditions. Then two of the client colleagues wrote to the minister that everything was wrong at school. He sent her to this school after the inspection, and before the inspection was over, he refused her consent to the principal, and the inspection found that everything was fine. The second thing where the long term of policy got involved in the appointment of directors was also a first-class political event, but it was certainly when the minister did not give his consent to the head of directors, Mr. Račič, even though he met all the conditions and had more appointments [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Can I talk?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u206	There you go. You're the only one who has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u207	Yeah, I think I'm in the choir because everybody's calling. He didn't give his consent. That is why we proposed in the Liberal Democracy that we discuss the appointment of directors on the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth and Sport, but we were rejected there. We requested an extraordinary meeting and, after some time, we also received this extraordinary meeting, but also at this extraordinary meeting, when we took our conclusions and when we proved and proved that the system was not working, and we received assurances that this matter would be settled, this matter was not regulated. Then we introduced the law, and despite the introduction of the law, we called on everyone to accede to the signing of this law, but we only got co-conspirators in part of the opposition. I would like to say the following: on the board of coalition parties, you have defiantly rejected this law, because none of the characteristics you have attributed to the law have been sustained, as we have also proved. I think that a minister who has more than 200 employees and has failed to write the law and has failed to submit at least one amendment to this law is likely to find it difficult to do so, because if he continues to do so, he may also have some kind of interpretation in the near future. However, I think that in order to increase prosperity in Slovenia, the school system is one of the biggest, and that we will allow directors without fear to run for principals, please, as we will do to vote against the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u208	Thank you. Before we proceed with the explanations of vote, I ask whether colleague Žgajnereva and Mrs Pót want a word on behalf of the Group of Members? Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Allow me to contact the speaker in front of me. At the beginning of the new government's mandate, we witnessed a number of politicised decisions with actually unnamed directors and directors. Let me remind you. Beltinci Elementary School, Muta Primary School, Institute for Blind and Visual Youth, Majda Vrhovnik Primary School. In these cases, however, Minister Zver’s misconduct was also noted in the education and education union and in the primary and secondary school or kindergarten group. The aim of the proposed solutions to the law that we have on the bench today is only one change, but an important change - it is to limit the possibility of non-transparent, political motivation or other personal whims, which is also recorded in the bill, the Minister's decision whether or not he will give the candidate a consent to the appointment. We have witnessed political decisions. While the government has given a negative opinion on the bill, the explanation of force is ridiculous and - forgive me, but on the basis of the four cases mentioned above - it is by no means true. And you know, the government has also promised to prepare its proposal for the law. Who else believes in government stuff like that? For example, the government has also promised to prepare its proposal for a law in the case of a veterinary law. By the end of March 2003, I am sorry. However, until today, when October 2005 was written, she failed to do so. Finally, it is a public education and in the Slovenian National Party we estimate that the latter must be independent of every political authority or will. We will not support the decision of the parent's working body, which is negative.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you. The word has a Member of the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u211	Thank you. The law, which has been declared by the mother's working body not to be a suitable basis for further proceedings, has experienced a similar fate as the law, which we have also proposed and rejected by the opposition Members of the coalition at their previous meeting. It was obvious to him that he was going in the right direction, but that he needed to wait for comprehensive solutions. It is clear that he is inconsistent and that he is not a well-thought-out solution. For the last time, it is not today that the issue does not bear the weighty judgment, but the worst of all is that some are shamelessly changing the facts in seeking arguments for rejecting this law. When it comes to excluding the opinion of the local community, they are deceiving because the amendment to Article 53 in no way reduces the role of any person so far in deciding on the appointment of the director or directors of the public segment. It is true, however, that the Minister's self-restraint at this point means that the Minister must take into account the teacher's positive opinion that the majority of the members of the teaching assembly and the members of the teaching assembly must be positive about the proposed candidate. With these coworkers, the principal or principal will have to work, and we say that a good school stands and falls on teachers. What good cooperation between teachers and principals means, and everyone who has ever worked in school knows. Therefore, I find it completely unacceptable and incompatible with the other provision of the coalition, how far it is to transparency, when it now rejects a proposal that introduces greater clarity in the appointment of directors and principals, or if you want transparency. I expect you, therefore, to vote against the proposal for a decision of your mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u212	Thank you. Comrade Kangler, please calm down. He has the floor, an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Member Kokalj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a decision proposed by the Home Committee, the reasons have already been mentioned. However, the circumstances of the proposal put forward by Mr Gaber, who was the former Minister and during which the legislation, such as it is, was actually adopted, must be explained. We know that, in accordance with the procedure and under the tactics of the Liberal Democracy, a law has been passed that has practically closed the primary school into an hermetically political institution in which, in fact, the founder, namely, the local community, and not the parents, cannot influence the essential contents. They can only affect directly in the field of superstandard and cannot practically affect the content itself. And given that Mr Gabra's current proposal is probably - of course, now that the political option has changed, but it is going in the wrong direction, in line with this proposal, we would actually decide who will lead an executive organisation - the contractors themselves, says the teachers. This is absolutely unacceptable, that is to say, it is no longer a matter of avoiding the decision of the Minister, and the local community, which is the formal founder of the institutions, can only give its opinion. In the future, I expect this matter to normalise in this direction, that the one who is the founder of the institution and the one who bears all the responsibilities of the institution's insurance will also have a key word in the appointment of the management staff, especially the director, while at the same time we will have a significantly greater role for parents and the relationship in the sacred institutions will also change in favour of those, as I said, representatives of the founders and representatives of parents. Now we know that this matter is done by almost half of the representatives of the performers, these are the teachers, which I find to be an exercise of the purpose and mission of the institution completely unacceptable. As I said, Mr Gabra's proposal is going in the wrong direction and is trying to buy political points in the frame, which, according to the demographic picture, probably many people are also running out of service duty slowly, and I think this is a very demagogic approach, which would have had a very bad impact if it had been adopted, on the further development of education.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u214	Thank you. We have thus concluded with an explanation of the votes of the groups of Members. We are moving on to an explanation of the vote of Members and Members. My friend Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u215	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished presidents! Allow me to explain to you what the principals and principals have said, including those who are actually touched by this law, in a conversation with the Minister. On the 29th anniversary of this year, the Republican Committee, 18 directors, met with the minister. And that's where it was. This is from the record: "Most managers in their fields have accepted the system of current appointment as optimal. This means that the current system of appointment of the majority of directors supports, only by adding that the Minister has to explain not being named and that there is no greater political power in appointment at local level." They also presented this to the minister, who gave them his opinion. His opinion was that he wanted to reduce the power, the strong influence of the minister. Thus, I would like to reduce my influence, such as giving consent and at the same time want a balanced composition of the world. I think that this desire is worth taking into account and that the opinion given by the directors is sufficient reason to vote against the decision of the parent working body and to vote in favour of a bill that is a deliberate solution to the problem which, of course, arises to the Minister at the time of the appointment of the principals and principals. Because I would also like to take into account his opinion, I will vote against the proposal made by my mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you. Member Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. If you talk me into it, it's called Ambassador Bebler's.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u218	You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u219	Thank you very much. So I would like to point out that I will vote against the proposal of my mother's working body. And I also believe, Mr Jerovšek, that the system of appointment of directors, which worked for a good decade and operated under various ministers and ministers, is good. Our proposal, however, complements it at the point where it slipped the current minister at the point where he used his discretion and appointed or failed to appoint directors and directors according to the criterion of political compatibility and criteria that should not be criteria for the selection of such important people as directors or directors. The bill before us represents a premeditated self-limitation of power, takes the burden with the minister's shoulders and lays down the procedure more clearly. I also naively believe it, and I hope that's what the current minister wants. I will therefore vote against the proposal of my mother's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u220	Thank you. Member Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u221	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will also vote against the decision of the parent working body. And, of course, I call on the coalition, Members of the coalition, to vote against it. Of course, I think this law came out of nowhere. And especially because some ministers, in this case Minister Beast, see here from all this story about principals or principals and principals of primary schools, it is simply a sense of power, as a minister. And apparently he can't limit himself, and he thinks he can do whatever he wants and whatever he wants in the last instance. That is why I think that it should be limited if it is not able to limit itself, and especially so that what it is doing, you will not end up paying for it yourself. And you must also bear in mind that all these things go to your dig, not just to dig the Minister of the Beast. At the same time, I think that, by rejecting this decision, we are also affirming school and education as an enlightened institution, in our basic educational institution, which this society still needs and will still need. We cannot afford what some would like to think that school programmes would actually be subordinated to local communities, and it might well be that in some local community the teaching of evolution would be replaced by some other science, with some kind of creationism. We must have that education at that level of behavior and knowledge that today's world can afford and has. It is not perfect, but it is not blind trust in everything that someone believes in in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u222	Thank you. So far the last vote to be tabled is Ambassador Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Sometimes I have the feeling that colleagues and colleagues are misreading the texts that are being submitted, or they don't want to read exactly, so once again, I repeat that talking about this law being excommunicated by local communities and parents is, to say the least, inaccurate and untrue. The structure of the world as proposed remains as it was. This is said to be three parents, three representatives of the local community and five representatives or representatives of teachers. But we have a system that is partnered, and it would be very unwise to change it or break it, although it is perfectly clear - and here we look the truth in the eye - what your intention is when you break this law; and this is intention in the long run. Intension is to increase the power of local communities and thus, through all mechanisms, to achieve and discipline the local authorities and directors. This is not the first time, and we know that the story of the past has already worked this way. Of course, I will vote against the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u224	Thank you. Paula Rupar has the word. The word is Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u225	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, in my explanation of vote, I would like to say that the amendment of the law has been tabled after a ten-year period when the rules were clear between all the candidate procedures. That's the first conclusion. The second conclusion is the fact of the decision-making process. It was said what the composition of the world is and what the ratio is: 5 - 3 - 3. And the teaching assembly must receive in its opinion at least one more support; either from the local community or from parents. I would like to say an experience, because I was in both roles when I was in the evaluation phase and when I was a candidate myself. When you decide on the application and decide on the procedure, then you certainly know that with all the professional skills, with the experience of working practice, with additional professional complementarity, because these are all requirements, you should also present a vision. And you present the vision of the school to the collective, you present it to the local community, you introduce it to your parents, and you can present it to the school community. And to survive all of this and to be aware of the candidate when put into this process means to decide that you can finally get a positive opinion. And in my opinion, everyone's right, who, in all this difficult way, gets a positive opinion of all of these and gets support from the world, deserves this explanation, even if it is rejected, in the final opinion, in the opinion of the Minister. Therefore, the effect of this law can only be positive or only positive, and of course I could not agree that such a change could have a negative impact on education. Of course, that's why I'm going against the conclusions of my mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u226	We're voting. Comrade Paula Rupar, calm down! There are 69 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 26. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. Comrade Paula Rupar, next time I warn you, calm down! I won't give you my word. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products - the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments to the third reading of amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities for women and men 2005-2013. As no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution, we are moving on to a resolution decision. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the resolution would be inconsistent. Ensign Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u227	On behalf of the Group of Members. Of course, we will support the resolution. We think it's quality and binding, and it will have and will have consequences. But let me tell you, we all have the same options. Some groups are more privileged at all times, others are less privileged. Differences between minority and majority in each democracy must be reduced and eliminated. But how to reduce differences if prejudice is not resolved and intolerance is not eliminated. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] On today's consideration of the resolution on the National Equal Opportunities Programme [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u228	Peace in the hall. The text shall be read exclusively by the Member of the Shirtz. Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u229	There was also some intolerance when considering the resolution programme on the national programme for equal opportunities. [[...]] As I approached my colleague Majda Potrata, who had a clear and analytical contribution to the debate, I heard hints that it was a waste of time, and also statements that it should be quiet because she was crazy. They were spoken to women and were put out on the spot when we discussed the resolution on a national programme for equal opportunities, which also dealt with and also dealt with the elimination of any gender intolerance. Today, we have heard many times that the paper is passed on and that the practices are different and usually different. If there is no positive practice of distinction and implementation and expression in an impatient dialogue in these premises, in the Houses of the National Assembly, then it is true: the paper carries a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u230	Mrs. Shirca, thank you. Comrade Jerovšek, you have no word. I, as chairman at the moment, if this happened under my command, didn't notice it, really not. The text is by Ambassador Majda Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u231	Thank you. The Group of the Social Democrats expressed its views on this document in a clear and sufficiently comprehensive manner when considering the resolution on the national programme for the implementation of equal opportunities, and allow me to reiterate before the vote the position of our Group on this document. The resolution is an important strategic document, a result of the analytical work of many experts and experts. In the preparation of this document, so many government powers have been involved that I say, as well as NGOs and many individuals and individuals, experts in individual fields. It is therefore important to promise that this resolution will be able to achieve at least one of the objectives set between 2005 and 2013, if we can do what some nations have already been able to achieve in order to measure the degree of democracy at the level of balanced representation of women and men in public life. Today we discussed the Ombudsman's report. Human rights are in fact women's rights. Again, I must say that I would like to see that the level of tolerance and respectful gender relations between generations between professions are greater than can be seen in practice. It is only to wish that the periodic plans resulting from the principles set out in the resolution will achieve a well-established work. And if this resolution is implemented, not only will those who have the levers of decision in their hands gain those we decide on in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! I will vote in favour of the resolution. The additional reason why I'm going to vote in favour is the fact that I live in a country where a very well-known official can say words when he talks about the victims of a mass murderer, that the smoke that rolled out of his oven was, excuse me, "smoker smoke". This is a literal quote from this well-known official, who is incomprehensiblely sexist, grave, violent, and you will not believe, not only did nothing happen to this official, a whole bunch of politicians, a whole bunch of people in different areas of public life felt obliged to defend this man then to defend that statement. [[...]] So I wonder where the tolerance in this country has gone so that something like this can happen. Not because someone is denied something, but because a whole bunch of people then called in to defend and publicly defend such a person. That's strange. This statement is so incomprehensible that the only person I can find for her is a couple, after memory, so quickly, that the situation in Slovenia is comparable to Nazi Germany, and they are pronounced by a person, at that time in relation to deleted when the spot with Mr. Aksentijevic was spinning on RTV Slovenia in the main role, at the expense of us RTV contributors, because it was a free publication. In this country we live and the only thing we can do right now is vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u234	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention establishing a European University Institute, as amended by the 1992 Amendment Convention. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, this is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. In the context of this item, the assembly will consider six proposals from the Judicial Council for election in judicial office, a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia and a notification from the District Court in Kranj concerning the authorisation of prosecution against a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. The Council of Justice submitted six proposals for the election of judges to the Court of Justice, to the Court of Justice. Two district judges at the district court in Celje and Ljubljana, and three district judges and a district judge at the District Court in Novi Gorica, Maribor and Tolmin. The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Sabine Zakošek to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Nataša Pavlin Rogelja to the District Court in the District Court in Novi Gorica. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Renata Vajdič to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Primož Čeh as a judge of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tatjana Lipusček to the District Court of Justice in the Tolmin District Court. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Irena Grm to the judicial seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour, none against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the draft decision was tabled by the Election Commission for a term of four years as a member of the Minister of Lovr Lončar. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 62 votes in favour, none against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the hearing of the notice of the Kranj District Court of Criminal Prosecution against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Kranj for consideration. The notification was considered by the Commission’s mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, so we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notice of the District Court in Kranj, the number of K206/2003 of 13.9.2005 in respect of a private action brought against the Member of the National Assembly of Mr Paul Rupar for a criminal offence under Article 170 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to Mr Paul Rupar and allow the conduct of criminal prosecution." We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63th Members and Members present and 59.1 votes against [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night, everyone!
