ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Bogdan Barovič, Zvonko Černač, Ferri Horvat, Ivan Jelen from 14:00 on, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Miro Petek, Maria Possonec, Jože Školč from 18:00 on and Davorin Terčon from 14:00 on. Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Today is Rudolf Maister's national holiday, and I would like to point out in this regard that it seems that we did not realize this in the preparation of the agenda of the National Assembly and we are an extremely difficult day to conclude after 10:00 p.m. I think that this National Assembly, which voted this law, must be aware of and behave with some dignity until this day, unlike the city of Ljubljana, I have seen today, is disastrously decorated, once again Ljubljana behaves like in those Maistra times when the Ljubljana government has been ashamed of Maistra and therefore I, Mr Vice-President, suggest that if the agenda points to the end, today's session should be delayed until the intended end, to change the agenda and to end at least at the end of the 7th meeting. I think that, although this public holiday is not a work of leisure, we must show some respect that we can at least watch the diary, how the state celebrates this holiday, and one afternoon we must decide to shorten today's agenda if things are to develop in this direction, in order to actually go to 10 o'clock. I, Mr President, propose that this afternoon we decide that a state holiday should also be properly celebrated here, in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek, you have said well and I fully agree with you. I hope that in the course of this morning we will also discuss how to do something and what to do. However, I think that we will also be able to shorten the agenda to inform you of some of the things that will certainly help to keep the agenda of the entire session of today shorter than anticipated. Before we move on to the 4th item of the agenda, I would like to draw your attention to the request of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, when dealing with individual tax laws at the meeting of the assembly, provided for a shorter period of time than, according to the debate at the meeting of the assembly, it is necessary to explain its proposals or to define them to the amendments tabled. In view of the above, the SDS and New Slovenia have given up part of their time to discuss the time frame set by the meeting, in favour of the government, so that each parliamentary group will discuss 1st minutes less at the 4th item of the agenda and the government will discuss 20 minutes more. At the 5th item of the agenda, the SDS Group gave up 20 minutes of the debate and Nova Slovenija 15 minutes of the debate, so that the government will have an additional 35 minutes to discuss. Please, Mr. Pache has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u4	Your Honors are here! Yesterday was the same attempt by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after the extension of the time or after the allocation of the new time. I, as chairman, of course didn't take that into account. I believe in rules that are the same for everyone in this house, and I believe that the time is right in advance, and I know that time is to be entered into college, where the timetable is also confirmed. I do not think that the National Assembly should agree that one parliamentary group is giving its time to another parliamentary group. In the final stage, each parliamentary group is independent and is likely to be sovereign. However, in order to come so far as the parliamentary groups cancel time at the expense of the government, it is unacceptable to me. And I suggest you, Mr President, not to do what you have proposed, but to call before each point, whether it opposes any of the Members to extend the time to the government. If any of the Members oppose this, then the government shall have the time it has declared within the time limit set for that purpose. According to my assessment, the National Assembly represents an independent branch of power, and the government is visiting here and must therefore respect the rules set out in the Rules of Procedure so much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u6	Mr Vice President, I think it is good that we have a holiday today, and since this is not a work day off, we should also work on a holiday. I hope that the government will work effectively today and that others will also work effectively. The problem for us today is that we have a very bad marriage ahead of us, and the government should consider preparing this law before the holiday. I would even suggest that the government withdraw this law from the procedure. Because this marriage, which we are about to adopt on the Master's Day, will take away one fifth of the interest saved for all those for whom Master fought. My fellow Member and Mr Minister, the problem with this law is that this article is closed. And yet, if you debate 10 hours or give all your time to the government, the government can't change that. The government can withdraw this law from the procedure, or we vote it today, and we hope that the State Council will reject it. This is a procedure in this state world. What you have proposed here, Mr President, at the suggestion of some parliamentary groups is contrary to the rules of procedure. If you want to propose this, then you need to convene a college consultation, a new college determination, or do what was done yesterday. In view of the content of the debate, it is important to see whether the government will really have to spend 20 additional minutes to discuss the tax procedure. However, for the next 10 hours, the government has not helped to justify the mistakes made in the Income Act, which was the time, Mr Bojan Starman, members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where we should adopt the amendment that we proposed to solve the problem which, of course, will burden all Slovenians and Slovenians on the Maister's holiday. So, I believe that work can be concluded today, that the government should withdraw this marriage because marriage is bad in important work, because on one side of those for whom Maister fought, and on the other hand those who represent another group of people give very much, I think that now after three days of discussion it has also come to the Slovenian public. So, Mr President, I propose that you do not do this to do as was the case yesterday, if the Members find at the end of the debate that there is no longer enough time, then I do not think there will be any objection to the government saying anything. Of course, in the law on income, as I said, even 10 extra hours will not help to correct the government's mistakes because the amendment of the Liberal Democracy was not adopted on the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. I'd just like to give you my word, maybe you won't, then you'll need it when I tell you my word. I am withdrawing the proposal because it is not actually in the rules of procedure, but the proposal was, I read it, your debate convinced me, so I am withdrawing it. Is there anything else Mr. Anderlich would like more than that? No, no, no. Thank you. So I'm going to move on to 4. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Minister Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u8	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tax procedure law is based on experience in the implementation of the new tax legislation in 2005 and on proposals made by the professional public and individual taxpayers, not least on proposals received by the Ministry of Finance by a group of experts chaired by Dr Marko Kranjc. The government has drawn up a proposal for a law to try to eliminate some inconsistencies in the implementation of the tax procedure law and to introduce some new institutions to encourage voluntary payment of taxes and the proper treatment of taxpayers on the proceedings before tax authorities. Above all, the aim was also to remove administrative barriers. Following the adoption of the Tax Procedure Act 1, the Council of the European Union adopted Council Directive 2004 106 EC of 16 November 2004 amending Directive 77 799 EEC on the mutual assistance of the competent authorities of the Member States in the field of direct taxation of certain excise duties and taxation of insurance premiums and Directive 92 12 EEC. On the general arrangements for excise products and on the storage, movement and control of such products affecting the mutual administrative cooperation of EU Member States in the collection of public levies. The transposition of Directive 2004 106 EC into the Slovenian legal order also requires an appropriate amendment to Part Four of the Tax Procedure 1 Act, which is also included in this proposal. It is proposed to introduce a new Institute of Self-Login and to extend the time limit for the payment of tax interest, or for a tax ruling, which further encourages the taxpayers to fulfil their tax obligations on a voluntary basis. Amendments in the area of disclosure of tax confidentiality are proposed, following the principle or right of a taxable person to privacy while taking into account the public interest to be informed of outstanding tax liabilities. The proposed solutions in the specific part of the law align the procedural provisions with the amendments proposed in the amendments to the substantive tax laws. Indeed, on the amendment of the law on income and the law on corporate income tax, which this respected State Council adopted yesterday. In addition, the proposed amendments in other sections of the specific part of the law constitute compliance with the solutions in the general part of the law or to remedy some of the shortcomings that practice has also pointed out. For these reasons, we propose that you support the proposal for a law presented by the Government for your consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Your Honor! At its 10th meeting, on 16.11., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the tax procedure submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which also participated in this meeting. The applicant's explanation shows the intention of the applicant to remedy certain inconsistencies in the implementation of the Tax Procedure Act while introducing certain new institutions to encourage voluntary payment of taxes and the proper treatment of taxpayers in the proceedings before tax authorities. In addition to this, an appropriate amendment is necessary for the transposition of the treatment of Directive 2004/6 EC into the Slovenian legal order. The Committee received comments from the Legal and Legislative Service on a larger article. In addition to those specific comments, it is the view of the legislative and legal service in the legislative proposal, in the framework of the preliminary and final provisions, to lay down deadlines for the issue of those acts. However, it is also pointed out that in the final edition, the legislative and legal service will also carry out the texts of the proposed amendments, as well as some editorial corrections. As additional working material, the Committee, on 14.11.2005, received a proposal to amend Article 20 of the draft law of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The following amendments were tabled by qualified applicants: Members' groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners at 16th, 27th, 30th, 35th, 63rd, 71st, 74th, 75th, 91st, 92rd, 93rd, 94th, 97th, 100th, 103rd, 121st, and 122nd Article of the legislative proposal of 16.11.2005. The amendment to the 20th Article of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, which, by deleting the second paragraph of Article 40 of the legislative proposal, summarises the submitted proposal from the Economic Chamber and the Commission of the State Economic Council. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Committee of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the economy which, at the time of its consideration, expressed its support for the legislative proposal on 09.11.2005 and drafted a concrete proposal to amend Article 20. In the course of the second discussion of the individual articles of the legislative proposal, the representative of the legislative and legal service gave support to all amendments tabled by the coalition following the opinion of the legislative and legal service on the appropriateness of the legislation. It then reopened the individual questions referred to in Articles 1, 119, 43, 48, 50, 53, 74, 96, 101 and 106 of the legislative proposal. In doing so, in defence of the basic solutions to the bill, the government representative provided appropriate clarifications. The Committee adopted the amendments submitted to the 16th, 27th, 30th, 35th, 63rd, 71st, 74th, 75th, 91st, 92, 93rd, 97th, 100th, 101st, 121st and 122nd and adopted the votes on the individual articles of the legislative proposal and all articles. The amendments to Article 20 of the Slovenian National Party were not accepted by the Committee. On the basis of Article 133, paragraph 1, in the light of the amendments adopted, a further proposal is prepared, which is proposed for adoption by the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members and Members of Parliament. New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group - The Christian People's Party supports the adoption of the proposal for a tax procedure law along with amendments adopted on the home work body. Although the law in force was adopted in April 2004, the amendments are necessary, due to the implementation of the European Directive 106/EC, which was adopted in November 2004 and also to comply with other tax legislation. The basic objective and principles pursued by the law remain unchanged by trying to establish a self-registration institute. The proposer follows the principle of a taxpayer to privacy while taking into account the public interest. Important solutions offered by the law are: In one place, the obligation of the taxpayer to provide real, correct and accurate data, the time limits for which a decree may be recognised or the interest payment of the tax is extended in the new proposal of the law from 12 to 24 months, this amendment constitutes a more favourable treatment of taxable persons, the tax number is no longer considered to be the tax confidentiality of the business entity, since the tax numbers are also available online. The tax authority will be able to disclose the information on the taxable person when his debt becomes legally binding. It is also important to address the dilemma as to whether individuals are justified in disclosing data on whether all compulsory social security contributions have been paid. Tax inspection will need to be forecasted at least 8 days in advance in order for the debtor to prepare documentation and space, except for those checks where the previous forecast would jeopardise the objectives of the review. After a new review, it will also be possible to carry out a review with the taxable person. An important change is also that the period for which the authorised person takes the documents is normally reduced from 90 days to 30 days. The procedure for enforcement is considerably simplified, in particular in the reporting of tax debt notices. In our view, an important novelty is also the self-declaration institute, which seeks to achieve a later finding of error on its own. In cases where a self-declaration will be transmitted before the debtor is found to be subject to review, he will have to pay the tax liability, but not the offence. If the taxable person communicates the data to the tax authority only after the formation of the tax liability, he must pay, in addition to the tax, interest which is less than late. However, in the event of a timely pre-dose application, it shall not pay any additional costs. The amended legislation aims to stimulate taxpayers to pay taxes voluntarily and to encourage the tax service to treat taxpayers more favourably. In the New Slovenia Group, we fully support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u14	Nice greeting, Mr Vice President, nice greeting, Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Hello! With the proposal for amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, we are approaching the concept of citizens and the economy of a friendly country in our country. The tax procedure is the specific administrative procedure in which all entities are mainly natural and legal persons most often involved or most often in contact with the State. Moreover, by means of a tax procedure, the State implements the Tax Law, which means that it is crucial for all, both for the debtors and for the State, that the tax procedure is clear, transparent, democratic and fair, and in particular that it does not establish a relationship of subordination between the State and the debtor. According to the Slovenian People's Party, the current proposal for a legal text is a good one and in a large step towards such a tax procedure as we all want. The Slovenian People's Party in the draft law welcomes, in particular, the solutions that equate the position of the debtor with the position of the State in the process, in the way that both parties are equal in procedural proceedings, which means that the tax authority cannot voluntarily enforce its will against the debtor, but, if so, the appropriate legal remedies are available, it is successful to resist such a voluntary act. Thus, it is entirely correct for the newly established Institute of Obsolescence, which will run from the day of maturity, obligations beyond the next calendar year, which compares the position of the debtors between themselves. The scope of enforcement abroad of the tax paid is also better regulated for the debtors, but the tax service will also have to establish adequate control with the assistance of the payer State. These amendments also include the redesign of rules on tax inspection, which in some ways exposes a fairer relationship between the tax authority and the taxpayer and will allow for faster and more effective inspections. In particular, we welcome the introduction of the Institute of Self-Login. The fact is that everyone can also make a mistake in fulfilling his obligations to the country, so we estimate that it is very positive that the debtors are given the opportunity to correct their mistakes without being ingrained. We estimate that in this way it will also acquire the budget, as the debtors will be able to disclose their mistakes themselves and pay the under-established tax liability. In particular, the Slovenian People's Party welcomes the solution that it will not be necessary to include non-taxable income in the income forecast, in this way citizens will only predict revenues that are relevant to taxation, so that there will be no need for tax returns to be 16 pages wide, as some have feared recently in the public. In the context of the changes, however, there is also a positive solution that will prevent tax evasion or allow all interested parties to obtain data on their tax debt primarily from their business partners. We also assess that, according to the legality of the tax evasion found, tax confidentiality rules should end and, therefore, in the interests of the economy and the public, we very much agree with the disclosure institute under the jurisdiction of the tax decision. On the basis of everything exposed, we estimate that in the amendment to the Tax Procedure Act we will also get a modern, fair and consistent regime of the tax procedure, which will be proud of the country and will show its democratic foundations. However, the debtors will be given a law that protects their interests and will not cause unnecessary, additional, administrative costs in fulfilling their obligations to the State, so Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be pleased to support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the tax procedure adopted by the mother's labour force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u16	Respectable present. In explaining its law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax Procedure, the Government said in the introduction, or speaking, that this law, i.e. the Law on Amendments, follows the same objectives and principles as the Basic Law, i.e. all nine basic objectives. On the National page, we stress that it seems very questionable to us how a new law government is pursuing a goal that the government itself sets out the right to privacy, while this privacy and, of course, the secrecy itself in the context of this amendment of the law. In this way, I will quote: "Taxic secrecy will no longer be regarded as the tax number of business entities and the whole link to it." So we can no longer talk with this change about the pursuit of the last, the 9th objective as we could have spoken before the entry into force or as we can speak today when this law is not in force. Here I would ask the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia to explain whether, in fact, only in the context of the explanation of the law have they quoted or copied the old explanation, or how they imagine, therefore, pursuing the objective of the right to privacy. I believe that those who have listened to me agree that this right to privacy in the good part of justice will be violated. The second thing I would like to point out is the positive content in the part where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia requires that it is possible to increase or allow the suspension of the payment or the payment of interest, and this will be extended from 12 to 24 months. Despite all that we have heard in recent days or in recent months about how awesome the Slovenian economy is, how amazing the Slovenian society is, it seems to us that such legal solutions as proposed by the government only indicate that the government is also aware of the real situations, so that the Slovenian economy is unfortunately not phenomenal and is also allowed under the law, i.e. the legal decision, the postponement of payment. In this part, I commended the bill, but I also have to express negative criticism of the bill in part 58 and 59, where the government is equating the limitation period for all taxpayers. According to our assessment, when the limitation period starts to run immediately, the part of the country that is targeted or adapted to economic operators in a poor market situation is excluded from fiscal policy. I would also like to point out a matter that we cannot agree to in any case in the National Party, namely that compulsory notification of tax debt is abolished. Tax authority, I quote the bill-maker or part of the law: "The tax authority will also be able to notify the debtor by telephone." According to our assessment, such an approach, which will, of course, be the reason for many tax disputes, is totally inappropriate. If any of you, Members and Members can imagine what it would be like for tax officials to keep people informed on the phone about this information on tax debt, I do not think we can play in this way. In the first phase, we don't know who will be on the other side of the phone line, or on the first side of the phone line. What it will look like to prove this phone conversation and to inform about this tax debt. According to our assessment, this will be an object that will be subject to the amendment of the law very quickly. For when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sees what it has done, that is to say, about the telephone notification of the tax debt, and when, in our opinion, the first slightly more prejudiced ones, i.e. the taxpayers, begin to challenge the decisions, of course, there will be massive violations and references to irregularities in our assessment, precisely because of the change proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and which is totally unacceptable to us. I would also like to point out that the government and the necessary part of the Members have not found support for the amendments of the Slovenian National Party, which requires or aligns, in the event of bankruptcy, independent entrepreneurs with the status of the company. If we are talking about equality, then, of course, even in the economic field, we should be so elastic to independent entrepreneurs and allow them equality in those crisis situations in the bankruptcy process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Willy Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u18	Good day, and thank you so much for saying that. We are now in the process of adopting the fourth, in a series of five tax laws, for which nothing can be wrong, if we keep reminding them that they have been adopted at some forced rate, which is also known for some of the weaknesses, and we will probably feel this the most in the next law. However, this law seems, at least, to be the most acceptable, the least challenged, and it also shows that even a large part of the reported debaters do not intend to discuss it. In the DeSUS Group, however, we believe that support for the law must be expressed because it is good in many of the provisions it brings. But it is true that perhaps now is the right time for a little break and to reflect on what we have done so far and what remains to be hoped for in relation to what at least some of us have committed ourselves to in this House. So we committed ourselves to doing everything possible to make tax and financial discipline bigger. This proposal, which we now have before us, I suppose, contributes to the realization of this commitment. We have also committed ourselves to allow for the best possible detection and effective sanctioning of those who like to avoid or whom we call violators of tax legislation. In this area too, the law will be able to make a difference. One of the commitments was to reduce the tax burden on income from work and this has already been done, but something has been done, perhaps even too much, with regard to the unloading of individual parts of capital, I am not talking about everything for individual parts - when we talk about income, this will probably still be revealed. Our commitment was to take measures that would increase our interest in saving and, as a result, also for investing, and I fear that we were not the happiest in that, because some are implicit, at first glance, the undetectable consequences are likely to come into play when the legislation actually begins to apply. We are very pleased that the facilitations for development and research have increased, as well as by increasing the facilitations in terms of promoting the convergence of development potentials in the regions, and that the amendment that has sought to equalise Slovenia as a whole has not been adopted. We believe that some good things have already been done, but this tax law also brings some good things. Therefore, the DeSUS Group will support this proposal. We also note, of course, that some of the amendments, many of them were adopted on the committee, on the working body, and some of them were not willing to be supported by us, but today the amendment proposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia was mentioned and adopted by one of the parties. So, in the DeSUS Group of Members, in our judgment, at least the burden on the vast majority of people means neutral law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs Polonca Dobrajc has the floor on behalf of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u20	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellow Members, fellow Members. The most important amendments proposed by the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tax procedure law are, inter alia, the following. The obligation to provide true correct and complete data is transferred between general provisions and is thus established as a principle of the tax procedure. The arrangements in the tax procedure shall be consistent with the principle of confidence in the public book and the order of the registration of the flags in these books. The period for which an order may be granted to pay or to pay the tax shall be extended from 12 months to 24 months. The limitation period for all tax liabilities is equivalent. Tax secrecy will no longer be regarded as a tax number for business entities. The taxpayers will be informed of the inspection in advance and a new institute is also being introduced to enable the debtor not to be responsible or to be treated for miles, provided that the information relevant to the correct determination of his tax liability is disclosed on a voluntary basis within a certain period of time. However, as regards the speed of the tax procedure, especially in the work relating to enforcement, the Institute also introduces the so-called options, but only the possibilities for telephone notification of the taxable person, which does not affect the existence of the debt and the start-up of enforcement, only gives the taxable person the option, the last chance to avoid administrative enforcement and the settlement of the obligation itself, but does not affect the amount of the debt or the start of enforcement. Since the proposed law seeks to eliminate some inconsistencies in the implementation of the Tax Procedure Act and introduce some new institutions to encourage voluntary payment of taxes and the proper treatment of taxpayers in the proceedings before tax authorities, thereby simplifying administrative procedures and thus decommissioning of taxpayers, the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The proposal for a tax procedure law is one of those laws that is really supposed to allow transparent collection of taxes and cause as little difficulty as possible in implementing all other laws that we somehow adopt during this period or are already in force. This is an extremely important issue that affects each individual, both natural persons and companies. Doubts about the quality of the legislation have already arisen on the committee itself when we find that just before the text is adopted, a whole series of amendments to the amendments amending the tax procedure appear. Of course, it would be nice and right if these supplements could be analysed, read and ascertained in a timely manner, whether they are necessary additions, for improvements or not, even for deviations from the desired objective in this law, which is certainly correct in its content, but if amendments are not adopted in this respect, new questions are raised. Why do these new questions arise? I have already said that the additions take place just before the adoption and, more importantly, also the comments of the legislative and legal services that are given are taken into account in the work, in these amendments, and in some part the government completely rejects them, but then in the amendments of the parliamentary groups, certain amendments that refer to the legislative and legal service appear again and here we no longer know what this is about. In particular, the content of the procedure, or the consistency of the procedure, is one that remains based on all the complementary amendments adopted by the Finance Committee and in particular on the disagreement between the legislative and legal services' comments, between the government's opinion and between the amendments proposed by the coalition. Therefore, we would like someone in this Chamber today to confirm that the legislative procedure or that the tax procedure proposed in this law is clear and that it will be a truly clearer regulation of the deadlines, that the principle of the duty of the act of genuine correct and complete data will be introduced not only by the obligation of the debtors but also by those who require this information from the debtors. So, I expect confirmation and clarification in this sense that we know what we are accepting and, of course, we resolve the doubts that have arisen due to a number of changes without adequate explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded our presentation of the representatives of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, this is to the debate on the articles and the amendment tabled to be led on the basis of the amendment review, of 22.11.2005. Only one amendment has been tabled, namely all four coalition parties: SDS, New Slovenia, SLS and DeSUS. In the debate, I am putting Article 93 and the amendment to the amended proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tax procedure law. Anybody want a word, please? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda or at the latest 21.55. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the Act on Income. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go, Minister Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u24	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Income for adoption in the National Assembly, with the aim of eliminating certain disproportionates which reflect the adopted law in 2004 and of increasing the international visibility of Slovenia, including in the light of relatively attractive tax legislation, and which must not lead to a substantial reduction in the revenue from this title. The proposal for a law is based on the principle of a general tax obligation, which is realised through the synthetic taxation of one part of the income by progressive tax rates and the cedular taxation of income through proportional tax rates. In view of the proposed objectives, the main changes in the bill are the following: taxation of the income of natural persons will be divided into taxation of income from employment, basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, income from renting and income from the transfer of property rights and other income under Article 98 of the current Income Act, which will be taxed on an annual basis with progressive tax rates and taking into account tax exemptions and, on the other hand, income from dividends and capital gains taxed at a proportionate rate. Income income rates to be taxed on an annual basis shall remain the same as in the applicable Income Act. The proportional rate of taxation for interest and dividends will be set at 20%. Special arrangements for the taxation of mutual funds' incomes will be removed, the proceeds from the withdrawal of investment vouchers will be taxed as capital gains and other incomes will be treated as interest or dividends, depending on nature. The rate of taxation of capital gains arising from the disposal of securities and equity shares, including investment coupons, will be set at 20% and will be reduced by the time of the holding of capital every 5 years, in such a way as to amount to 0 after 20 years of ownership. The tax treatment of the removal of residential dwellings remains unchanged. Income exemptions will be extended to some ratings such as mobile phones, parking spaces and certain incomes, such as a large family allowance and a veteran supplement. The taxable person who carries out the activity will be able to determine the tax base by taking into account the standard expenditure provided that, in addition to meeting the other conditions, his income will not be sworn in by 6 million tolars in the last 12 months, which under the applicable law was 3.9 million tolars. Small undertakings engaged in agricultural activities, such as gardening, wine production, beekeeping or additional activities on farm or domestic and art trade activities, will be allowed to impose standard expenditure, which has been higher than in the current law of 25%. The National Finance and Monetary Policy Committee of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted an amendment whereby small undertakings carrying out agricultural or complementary activities on the farm or the activities of domestic art of crafts are allowed to apply standard expenditure of 70%, with the same amendment being included by landlords. Both solutions are supported by the government. In the case of income from the rental of assets, the standard costs from the current 20% will increase to 40%. A relief is also included for the purpose of solving the housing problem, which will be recognised separately, which will relate to both the own resources used to solve the housing problem and the funds derived from the loan. It is also important to implement certain provisions which are in the interests of the taxpayers, both in terms of simplification and from the point of view of relief, after the 2005 tax deduction. The introduction of a proportional tax rate for dividend interest and capital gains to accelerate the functioning of capital markets and to simplify the taxation system of these income sources will lead to certain changes in the tax burden of individual taxpayers compared to the applicable system, so that the tax burden on interest income will be slightly reduced for the taxpayers from the highest tax classes, which show, to a large extent, such income sources. For these reasons, and in particular because we are responsible for competition between countries as regards taxation of such revenues, we propose that this should also be introduced and adopted. We propose that you support the adoption of the amended bill, including the amendments of the committee and the amendments tabled by the coalition today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 10th meeting, on 16.11., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to government representatives, a number of stakeholders were involved in the work of the Committee, the Legislative and Legal Service, which gave its opinion on 15.11, the College of the National Assembly concluded on 28.10. that the proposal should be considered following an urgent procedure. The Committee took note of the proposal for amendments to Articles 4 and 25 of the Legislative Proposal of the Association of Owners, the proposal for amendments of Articles 36 and 39 of the National Council of Disability Organisations and the identical proposal of the Association of Distrophysics of Slovenia, the comments or proposals for the resolution of certain complex issues concerning taxation of beekeeping activities, the proposals for supplementing Articles 6, 9, 30, 35 and 54 of the Legislative Proposal of the Economic Chamber of Slovenia, the proposals for supplementing the 43rd Article of the Student Organisation, the proposals for amendments 12, 13, 14, 33 and 59 of the Chamber of Commerce, the comments of the Association of Management, the State Council of Slovenia, with general comments to the legislative proposal. At the meeting of the Committee, the following amendments were tabled by qualified proposers: the 6 amendments and 3 were added to Articles 9, 12, 13, 25, 30, 35, 39, 54 and 57 of Article 15.11, of the Liberal Democracy Club of the European Union by Articles 12, 25, 43, 54 and 57, of the Slovenian National Party to Articles 6 and 39 of Article 15.11 and to Article 50 of Article 16.11, tabled by Ambassador Bogdan Barovic, the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons at Articles 6 and 39 of 16.11, and the coalition groups of Members at Articles 6, 7, 12, 12, 13, 16, 24, 33, 41 and 58 of the legislative proposal of 16.11. It is clear from the applicant's explanatory statement that the basic objective of the legislative proposal is to eliminate certain disproportionateities while increasing efforts to increase Slovenia's international integration in the context of relatively attractive tax legislation and in the absence of substantially reduced expected revenues under this Title. The legal proposal is based on the principle of general tax liability, which is to be realised through synthetic taxation of part of income with progressive tax rates and the work of income through one proportional tax group. All the amendments and proposals that have emerged have been discussed and adopted by the Committee of Qualified Applicants by the amendment committee of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 24, 33, 41, 55 and 58 of the legislative proposal. On the basis of the explanations of the proposed amendments to 6, 12, 14, only renumbered, 24 and 41, Article shall be partially or fully followed by the comments and opinions of the legislative and legal service. [[...]] However, the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats to Articles 6, 9, 12, 13, 25, 30, 35, 39, 54 and 57 were not adopted, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Articles 12, 25, 43, 54 and 57 and the amendment of the Group of the National Party to Article 50, tabled by Mr Barovic. However, we did not discuss the amendments of the pensioner group. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as amendments to the Committee on the basis of the legislative and legal services' comments submitted, has also adopted amendments to Articles 14, 16, 25 and 45. Finally, the whole proposal was put to the vote, all the articles of the laws and, pursuant to Article 133, a draft law, which we propose to be adopted by the national assembly, was drafted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Joseph Bajc, SLS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u28	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Hello! The proposed amendment to the Income Act is already the fourth amendment to this law in a good year and a half after its adoption last April. This proves that all the solutions to the basic law have not been considered and therefore the Slovenian People's Party estimates that the current proposal to amend the Income Act is one which, in our opinion, will, to the greatest extent, correct the most controversial solutions in the basic law of the previous year. If we put forward important changes in our view, this is certainly a solution to incomes from which income is not paid. In our view, it is of paramount importance to include an allowance for large families in a pool of exempt incomes. In addition to these revenues, veteran allowances, voluntary work income in protection and resolution, compensation to victims of crime and similar solutions will also be exempt. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the country will also maintain its social face by implementing this regulation for 2005, although it is quite contrary in public. Next, a very important solution for the microeconomic sector is to raise the threshold to which a tax base can be identified on the basis of standardised expenditure. Although Prague is not as high as many would like it, in our parliamentary group we estimate that it is appropriate at the moment. In the context of standardised expenditure, we particularly welcome the solution that farmers for complementary activities in farms and craftsmen producing domestic and art trade will be able to identify standardised expenditure of 70% of generated revenue. The Slovenian People's Party Group also appreciates the Government's efforts to increase liquidity in the capital market. Thus, the Government proposes a special taxation measure under certain passive incomes. The fact is that the country does not have any income from capital gains today, and therefore we estimate that a longer period of taxation is appropriate, especially since it foresees an acceptable tax rate at the time of its reduction and the valorisation of the purchase value. In particular, we underline a good solution in order to eliminate the current complex system of taxation of mutual funds, because today the debtors do not know too often what their tax obligations are in the process of cashing investment vouchers. In the Slovenian People's Party, as one better solution, we also welcome the implementation of certain provisions that improve the situation of the debtors already in 2005. In this way, we will eliminate the greatest nonsense of the current system and allow the taxpayers a fairer system of taxation. In our Group of Members, we are aware that it is not possible to take all the interests of taxation of the income of natural persons into account, but we would also like certain solutions to be different, but nevertheless we consider that the proposal to amend the Income Act is a very good compromise between options and wishes and that is why the Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Willy Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much again. This tax legislation we deal with has different implications. One is those who are less observable, some things are very obvious, they are explicit, and some are so that they will probably only be indirectly through the consequences of companies and, in particular, the financial industry, eventually also agree with the final consumer. But let's see what happens in the future about this. We must ask ourselves in every way who this tax law favors. Now that we are at the last, under the fifth law that we are dealing with, we should say that it is certain that, with our right hand, we often show generosity, that we are the one who likes to give, and that with our left hand of the city we bend sometimes even too much. The question is what will be the cumulative consequences for the whole society, for the state of Slovenia. It is notable, however, that this is a significant shift towards the capital field, to the economic field and that any hole in the belt will probably be new to the field that we normally call work or to the field of final consumers, at least the vast majority. In this way, wealth is moving, so is wealth, it is redistribution and in one part past wealth, some have already managed to redistribute the past value, and with today's or these laws that we are now enacting, it is undeniable that we are laying the foundations for redistribution of that wealth or new value that is yet to be created. If this redistribution is slightly less obvious, if it is more indirect, if it is more subtle, it does not mean that it would be quite acceptable to do so. In a process that we have already carried out so far, individual amendments have also been tried to add what might improve the possible negative consequences. Regrettably, most of those amendments or proposals made to either the distrophysics society or the NSIOS, i.e. disabled persons, or those proposed in the Chamber of Commerce or in the Chamber of Commerce, as well as those proposed by the parties, have not been accepted in many cases. We regret that our amendments have also been rejected in the DeSUS Group, but we are left with this possibility that today the content that has been in our amendments, but with new amendments, in particular with regard to the disabled, is still being changed. The aim of the applicant, as stated in the document, was to increase international visibility through this tax legislation and to increase attractiveness; in short, to attract others, in particular with greater competitiveness. It is likely that one part of this will also be successful, but it is questionable whether this increased competitiveness or greater attractiveness to invest in favour of our domestic investors as well. The financial Slovenian industry has had a number of concerns about the proposals we accept. Some of the consequences are more, others are less essential, and we want what is still happening - unfortunately we have already missed some things - this will, in particular, show in the taxation of interest on savings funds that some of the negative consequences will still be rectified and that is why we will support those amendments that are also proposed by the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Starman has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, support the proposed amendments to the Income Act, including all the amendments adopted by the Committee at its meeting. We believe that this law provides the optimal possible simplification and improvement of the situation of taxpayers in many areas. The important thing that I think is right and the only way to calculate income is to tax capital revenues. Before, of course, we used to pay this income basically or at different rates depending on our total income, I think this is a more correct way. We have a whole series of additional allowances, even a number of groups for which income payments are released after a new one, increasing the amount for those applying standard costs from 3,9 million to 6 million tolars, and proposals have also been for more, but so far. Of course, there are also certain reliefs, in particular increased standard costs from 20 to 40 in contracts for hire and a whole range of other things, such as not being included in the forecast income of a younger family member up to 18 years of age, which will substantially change the parents' forecasts of course. In short, there is a whole range of benefits that we can offer, which are offered through this law by taxpayers, so of course we will gladly support these changes, and I hope that there will also be a national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Rop has the floor on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Members. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act. According to our assessment, these are major changes and are important for two reasons. Firstly, because, according to the Ministry of Finance, it is already part of the government's reform measures and therefore they show us in which direction these measures will go. Another time. Because these changes substantially change the Slovenian Income Act at some points. We are changing the way different taxpayers are treated and captured in a way that will have an impact on the type and type of Slovenian country and society. In the LDS, we support those amendments and additions to the Income Act which improve the existing Income Act and increase the tax competitiveness of the Slovenian tax system. There is no doubt that the changes proposed by Dr Kranjec's group are going in this direction, i.e. those changes which treat the income of natural persons differently according to their nature. According to these proposals, active income continues to be taxed synthetically through progressive tax rates, and passive income such as capital gains and income from borrowing funds at a proportionate rate. That's a good addition, and that's why we support it. We do not support and oppose those solutions which in no way increase the tax competitiveness of the Slovenian tax system, which in no way represent its improvement. These are changes that are not good, which are not rational or, in our opinion, are primarily ideologically motivated and will undoubtedly increase income inequality and social distribution in Slovenia. These are changes that show the direction in which the reform measures proposed by the Slovenian Government will go. Let me mention two. Firstly, in the proposal for amendments to the Income Act, the Government proposes a special special treatment for those who have received denationalisation bonds. Why and what does the government propose? In Article 25 of the proposal for amendments to the Income Act, it proposes that interest on the bonds received as compensation by the beneficiary be specifically excluded as subject to taxation in accordance with the law governing denationalisation. Just for them. Only beneficiaries of denationalisation, not for young families, not for researchers, not for employees, not for workers, not for students! Only for those who received exemptions from denationalisation for 200 billion Slovenian bonds were those who received 12 billion Slovenian bonds each year at 6% interest rates by 2016, of course from the burden of Slovenian taxpayers. They alone will be considered free of any tax on these interest. It is only for them that the government will thus give them 25 billion tolars in the next ten years. All others, unemployed or employed, or retired, young families and students will and we will have to pay the tax on all interest. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia why? What is the point of such a measure? Why is he doing this? Either this will increase competition in Slovenia, or it will increase economic growth, or it is only a specific group of beneficiaries who can have special rights because the Slovenian government and the ruling coalition so decided. Another time. The proposal for these amendments to the Income Act introduces interest on deposits for all citizens and citizens in Slovenia, while those who are the richest in this society are reduced by the capital profit tax, even the income from mutual funds on denationalisation interest, increases for all other tax burdens. The changes eliminate 300,000 tolls of interest as the limit below which the income is not paid. Illogical and incomprehensible! Why is the government closing the 300,000-dollar limit? Why does it reduce the tax competitiveness of Slovenia? Why can they have an exemption of up to €1370 in Germany, up to €1250 in Belgium and nothing in Slovenia? Why will workers, pensioners and the rest of us pay 20 billion interest, in Germany, in Belgium and in other European countries not need this? We strongly oppose such solutions in the LDS. In the LDS, we estimate that despite the good intentions of drawing up a law on income in concrete solutions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u35	Mr. Rob, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u36	The amendments to this law have come into conflict, and we therefore oppose it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you again for the word and once again a nice greeting to everyone! The proposal for a Income Act is the law that represents the most transparent picture of the government's thinking in this package of tax laws that we are dealing with to the greatest extent at this meeting. Even though many words about the tax reform itself in the past period have caused a lot of confusion, many questions that certainly also reflect major concerns in the economy, and not least individuals, but stay with the economy, which does not know what it is about because of vague forecasts. Otherwise, we can say that the Income Act is not well prepared from a technical point of view. The financial assessment of the amendment of the law refers to a neutral effect in terms of public financial revenues. But that's not a good reason. The simulation is only made for 2003, which is why time effects are neglected, which certainly leaves greater deviations in the assessment for the following years. Even so, the social groups that this Income Act seeks to favour are those of whom I think only a little more needs to be spoken about, as the law primarily confers on church officials, denationalising beneficiaries, public servants. It also adds athletes, farmers, craftsmen and others, but unfortunately we regret that the government does not show understanding for the needs of young people, for the needs of workers, for the needs of the middle class, for the needs of the small economy and especially for the needs of research and development. If we add that they are not actually thinking, I do not know how deeply deeply concerned we can be with groups with special needs, such as the elderly and the disabled, with the content of such a law. That is why we are also proposing amendments to ease this thinking and, above all, try to achieve that young people in particular are able to tackle the housing problem more actively, so that they can be saved more actively both in the capital area and elsewhere in our nutritional institutions, but unfortunately we find that some things in this law, because the articles are no longer open, it will be impossible to fix them and will certainly have long-term ill effects especially for young families, for young savers. In view of the extension of the speculative deadline to 20 years, this is the time-limit that expires during the acquisition and disposal of capital, is the time-limit that is written on the hands of the richest. How young people can apply the possibility of trading, if I say so, with capital, if this is limited and encouraged for a period of 20 years. Nowhere in the world is this speculative period of 20 years, usually even a year, we have proposed that this deadline be at least five years, but this has not been heard and there is a very bitter taste in the fact that capital investment will not actually be dealt with by young people because it is unopposed to solve their problems. Of course, as I said, this does not apply to the wealthier groups. We were also extremely surprised that the government was proposing a reduction of tax relief below 300,000 tolars, taking into account the interest base achieved for both bank and savings deposits as well as other capital investments. And it is inappropriate, in our opinion, to place the burden again on those who are already hard to save and save for the purchase of the first apartment, for the payment of education or not least to ensure a peaceful age. We are not in favour of such a system of tax reform and especially for this law on income no, because it encourages essentially [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] makes it possible for young people to exist. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General with co-workers! The Income Act was adopted in the framework of last year's tax reform just before Slovenia entered the European Union. Prior to the application of the law and its implementation this year, several proposals were made both to the public and to the public for the amendment of the existing system. The criticism was mainly related to the complexity of the taxation regime of natural persons' incomes, the administrative complexity of tax collection procedures and the relatively high level of income progression mainly in relation to taxation of passive incomes, in particular income from mutual funds and capital gains. The draft law eliminates certain disproportionateities that reflect the adopted law and increases Slovenia's international visibility from the point of view of competitive tax legislation, and should not lead to a significant reduction in the revenue provided for in this title. The bill proposed by the Ministry of Finance to the National Assembly of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes solutions that differ significantly from the established regime. At the same time, the proposed solutions are in line with the amendments to other tax laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the same time to the national assembly for consideration and adoption. The 2006 and 2007 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia already take into account the effects of the new Income Act. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will support the bill. There are many reasons for support in marriage, to list only some. For the first time, passive income, these are interest, dividends and capital gains, will be taxed on a marginal basis with income at a proportional rate. Secondly, specific taxation of income from mutual funds will be eliminated. Thirdly, the exemption from payment of the income referred to in Article 20 of the Income Act is significantly extended to the proceeds of the return of property and compensation received under the law governing the enforcement of criminal sanctions; to the late interest received by the debtor on the basis of a judicial decision; to the remuneration relating to family policy, we stress in particular; to the monetary rewards paid to sportsmen from the budget. The exemption of income payments promotes volunteering in the field of protection, rescue and assistance tasks, which is of great importance for the Slovenian situation. And even more exemptions for income payments, which represents a significant burden on the debtors, while simplifying the forecast for income. The new law on income due to the difficulty of monitoring and with a view to simplifying taxation excludes certain ratings. In the section on income from activities there are several changes, the threshold of income referred to in Article 35(3) of the Income Act will increase to six million dollars. This will make it easier to identify the basis for taxation for a larger number of taxable persons with business income. The share of standardised expenditure for complementary activities on farms and other agricultural activities has also been changed, which we think is very important. For agricultural and complementary activities and activities of domestic and artificial trades, whose income is measured by taking into account standardised expenditure, up to six million turnovers will be recognised at 70%, before 25%. This will solve the problem for the debtors who carry out that activity to a small extent, for example for winemakers, gardeners, olive farmers, complementary activities on the farm. Since the amendment of the Income Law provides for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at a given time of optimal relief and simplification, the New Slovenia Group will also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a second reading, this is the debate on articles and amendments tabled. There are plenty of amendments and I think you'll get them in the course of the debate transparently all on the bench. The amendments were tabled. Please, procedural question, Mr. Squeakl.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u42	Mr President, our procedural proposal is as follows. As you have just quoted the articles in which the amendments have been tabled, we cannot look at Members because we do not have a review of the amendments. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] There is no review of the amendments, Mr. Sok. If you have it, give it to me! No amendment review [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u43	Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u44	I'd like to ask you to either order a break or provide us with a review of the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u45	I'm asking, do you have a review of the amendments on the bench? No, it's not perfect! I just want to inform you that there are amendments to Articles 6, 12, 13, 16, 24, 25, 33 and 58 of the Act. Excuse me? One more procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u46	See, Mr President, to correct you, there is also an amendment to Article 57, which has been withdrawn. Excuse me, Mr. Sok, you signed the amendment to Article 57.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u47	Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u48	Procedurally, Mr President, I propose a half-hour break or as long as it takes to get a review of the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u49	I agree. I'm taking a break for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u50	We continue with the second reading, this is the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. I note that you have received an overview of all the amendments tabled, so we can go to the debate on individual articles or amendments to each article. First, I am putting to the debate paragraphs 6 and 10 of this article. Who wants a word? Mr. Run, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to Article 6, there are quite a few questions which are not exclusively related and only to the first amendment. It seems to us that the bill introduces a lot of illogicality when it gives new reliefs and requires some new tax obligations. In particular, we find it unacceptable that the late interest paid on the basis of a judicial decision should not be exempted because the end of the late interest on the basis of a judicial decision assumes that an obligation has not been fulfilled. And now tell me that you got what if you got next to the principal interest, because you got this principal a lot later than you should get - it seems hard for us to accept. We believe that proposals limiting the possibility of deduction related to disability related to veterinary additives and benefits related to the recreational allowance are that these are social rights that should be exempt from taxation. And we expect you to follow at this point the interlinked logics of these amendments, which we have tabled by the Social Democrats and partly by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and that you will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u53	Your Honors are here! I would like to talk about the amendments under order numbers 6, 7 and 8 in the review. On the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary group, the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats. Before that, allow me to give a brief overview of what is happening in connection with listening or what is happening in connection with the aid of disabled persons, at least in the context of disabled companies, in the form of assistance, under the terms of, of course, 'the caregiver'. On the home working body, the parliamentary group tabled an amendment that was the predecessor of all three amendments tabled today, i.e. the amendment of the government majority and the two opposition parties. In doing so, I would like to get an answer to the first question: what is the transfer in the case of coalition parties, when, at the parent working body, i.e. in the normal stage of the procedure, they reject the amendment that follows the said objective, with harsh words, with strange explanations, in short, with reasons that are not in it, and even less for the benefit or for the better life of individual persons with disabilities or those who care for persons with disabilities. Of course, it is a totally unclear kind of work to me and my fellow Member, Boštjan Zagorac, is still a law on the income of legal persons, where within the National Party we have also put in some kind of "amendment", which would make it possible to improve the quality of life of disabled companies when he said that most regret in this national assembly is to decide on individual changes, i.e. individual amendments, solely on the basis of who the proposer is, and not on what the content is. From this place I owe you, I stress, the duty of boarding, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, that you always give priority only to that one, and therefore to the authorship of each amendment not to the content. You imagine that days ago you rejected the same content or perhaps a little better in the context of a particular rule of law, but today you come before a meeting of the National Assembly and are boggling with this same matter. In my opinion, this is unacceptable and unworthy of the National Assembly. Of course, within the framework of the National Party, we will support the changes under point 48, which is to say, as far as possible, temporary or temporary care and assistance to disabled persons. However, I would like to point out that the way in which it is carried out in the framework of the National Assembly as a legislative branch of power cannot be proud of you. I am also obliged from this city to predict or predict and ask the amendment's proposer, but nicely in line, to announce that, within the framework of the National Party, we will launch a new law on the income of legal persons with a novel, as we tried to get it in the form of an amendment yesterday, i.e. 25% tax relief for disabled companies. That is why I ask you from this city, gentlemen and ladies, who have the right to vote and come from coalition lines, whether in that case you will play this two-faced game and, after my assessment, defend one at the home labour body and defend the other at the plenary session and thus again cause amendments or ratings to disabled enterprises not to be accepted. Despite the fact that it has always been a speech that the country is obliged to promote competitiveness! Of course, competitiveness can be promoted by the country in such an elastic tax policy, which is unfortunately a foreign to the Slovenian government and to you, ladies and ladies of the ruling majority, as well. So today, I would like to ask you whether you will remain or become principled. And the question arising from the proposed amendment to Article 6 signed by the four ruling groups, that is, those sentinel groups, when they do so, ignore the disabled organisations, the disabled persons and their guardians, and at the second moment, they push themselves up and say, "Que, we are the ones who are helping you." I ask you, in the dictatorship you propose, in Article 6 of the new 48th point, to talk about organisations operating at national level. This is one of the differences between the contents of the amendment under 6, 7, 8, and I think 9. What does this state level mean? Does this possibly mean, according to my experience or according to the experience of the Slovenian National Party with your work, that there will be such ratings - of course, if we can even call it ratings - only those organisations, individuals registered in Ljubljana or registered here? Does it mean state level? Does the state level mean anything else? Here I would ask you, first signed under the said amendment, not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because I have heard your attitude towards the disabled too many times and I do not want to hear your negative attitude towards the disabled organisations anymore, but I would like to hear the position of those signed under the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary-General with a team, colleagues and colleagues. Coalitions are changing, problems remain. So, the problems are the constant that we are facing in this House. We are talking about the amendment tabled under number three, which is an amendment which provides for the addition in article 20 under order number 19 of the disability benefit granted to disabled workers of the second and third categories of disability under the law on pension and disability insurance. This story's had a long history. In the previous mandate, when we adopted new legislation in the field of income in 2004, some Members have tabled an amendment to the home labour body to this law, which would have included this indent in this Article. The amendment received the necessary support and was an integral part of the amended bill, which was then addressed by the National Assembly. The then government coalition has tabled an amendment despite the opposition of these signatories, which we have signed this amendment, and has also voted on it and thereby eliminated this paragraph from this Article. Let me say that at the time, among the advocates of the solution that I propose today or that we have proposed to the Group of Social Democrats, we also had two MPs who are ministers today, that is Master Drobnic and Dr Bajuk. Both voted against the adoption of the amendment, which would have been voted out of the law by our amendment, and despite all the support of the opposition MPs at the time, the amendment of the government coalition was voted out and this solution was removed from the law. At the beginning of this term, I asked Dr. Bajuk and Master Petty Officer with the content of the problem of working persons with disabilities, as they face it when they predict income and, of course, when income is actually paid. The issue is problematic because, for the time when these persons with disabilities are employed, the employer is disbursing the income advance, and for the time when they receive compensation from the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, the income is not charged and is not taken away. And when they end up writing or fulfilling a tax return and then when the competent authority, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, calculates the actual income, they find that they have not paid the income advance. In fact, this means two or three amounts of compensation they receive for their disability. So they are very disadvantaged, and even when they receive a decision, they have to make up for these costs, or the obligation, of the country they have to pay. The amendment to the law we are proposing does not mean that working persons with disabilities would not pay their income. The income is still paid for the part where they are employed, for the part where they receive disability benefits from the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, and this proposal, the proposal of the Social Democrats, would not oblige them to pay their income. Let me say that this case is also in the Constitutional Court - an initiative for constitutional judgment, which has not yet actually come to an end because it does not have a priority. As I was giving, at the beginning of this term, I raised the question of the Member of Parliament, Dr Bayuku and Master Drobnik, as they envision a solution from this mystery. I was told that they were aware of these problems and that they would solve these problems when amending the legislation or the law on income. It was also said that representatives of disabled workers would be invited to participate and would try to find a compromise solution. So the matter is old, the problem is old, and every year it is again faced by working people with disabilities who are already disadvantaged because of their disability. I propose that we accept this amendment today to list working disabled persons among all the boards. And they say that hope is dying last, the hope is that those parliamentary groups that supported it in the previous term as opposition groups and are now government parties, are true Members and Members of government parties, that in a year and a half they have not fundamentally changed their thinking and views on these solutions and that they will, as they did then, support the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you. I would like to explain the amendments to Article 6 below number two. It's about family disability and family allowances. These family invalids and allowances are intended for persons or families who care for disabled persons. So it is about those who are, of course, willing to help people with disabilities to cope more easily with the daily problems or tasks that they simply have to do in their lives. Many times, though, older ones are also happy and happy to be able to be at home and to be helped, for the quality of life is, of course, in the home environment for each individual, especially if it is older, even more important and therefore it is pointless to tax family disabled persons and family allowances. That is why, of course, we propose to include this in the category of exemptions. I'd like to say a few more words about the amendment under number five. It's a recreational supplement. In fact, this recreational supplement is a dedicated supplement for many who might not plan to do so, but also for a more active life, for recreation, which often helps to preserve our health and, finally, to reduce the cost of treatment, which means that if we exempt the recreational allowance from income payments, we have a positive impact on public finances also because, on the other hand, we do not do so in the field of health. And a few more words about maintenance for the duration of professional rehabilitation under the War Disability Act. While the bill has included a veteran supplement in the exemption of income payments, the Social Democrats support such a decision, and we propose that the allowances under the Act on War Disabled Persons for care for the duration of professional rehabilitation should also be classified in the category of exemption for income, and thus not least the equalisation of the status under both the War veterans and the War Disabled Act. These are two extremely sensitive categories, which certainly earn more than extra taxation or taxing each other with income, especially when it comes to rehabilitation. So much for these and, of course, I also support the other amendments to this Article, which I think are really improving the situation of people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u59	Mr President, Mr Minister with co-workers and co-workers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I will discuss some amendments to Article 6. First of all, I would like to make a procedural suggestion, sir, that the professional services ensure that the order of amendments relating to the 39th point of the replacement as the amendments have been tabled. So that we have first the amendment of the Liberal Democrats' Group and then the amendment under the so-called coalition number 6 after it, because the coalition tabled this amendment later as the Liberal Democrats, that is the minimum required by political culture. Because otherwise the amendment of the coalition will be supported and the remaining amendments will be irrelevant. In this regard, I am pleased that this provision will be defended by those Members who now, under the ruling coalition, seem to support the introduction of a new 48th point to help and to exclude benefits for occasional or temporary care from the income. We regret that on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy this original proposal of the Slovenian National Party did not receive the support of either the Minister or the ruling coalition, something happened over the weekend. So I hope you'll take this along with you so that we'll vote 7, 8, and then we'll vote on the 6th Amendment. I would also like to ask procedurally to withdraw the amendment under number 9 because DeSUS was forced to withdraw the amendment. But what I want to say about this amendment is point 1, and that's a late interest. It is the case that the Social Democrats' parliamentary group has rightly proposed that the restriction on the exclusion of late earnings be removed in such a way that this applies to all late interest. In this regard, I would ask you very much if the Members of the ruling coalition and the government itself respected the opinion of the legal and legislative service, which says on 15.11., the day before we considered this at the meeting itself, that means that, for example, interest received on the basis of a judicial settlement which has the same effect of a judicial judgment, but is not a judicial decision, will not be excluded from the income. We therefore believe that the Social Democrats' proposal is correct and, in fact, allows equality before the law. If the government has decided that late interest will not be included in the income, then the government should not force everyone if you want the parties in the judicial proceedings in Slovenia to go to the courts so that they do not agree to court settlement or even out-of-court settlement, but only by the fact that they are forced to reduce their costs by the fact that the late interest is not included in the income will in fact require that the courts decide on it. This would be the right way if you really want to reduce financial discipline. In this way, you will only do so now that when this law is passed, the courts will be filled with the requirements for the determination of appropriate late interest on the basis of a procedure which will bring them into court. I therefore believe that at least this first amendment must be accepted. I will not say much about any other amendments, except that we support, as long as even the ruling coalition has decided that it has so much space in the income law, that they will support and exclude benefits for the occasional or temporary care of persons with disabilities. And one last thought. This Article 6 or this Article 20 of the Act provides for what is not included in the income. This does not mean that this 20th Article cannot be understood, since it is not so, at least not for all the elements of this Article, but as a basis for avoiding, on other grounds, income or income derived from income not included in the income, but excluding, for example, interest tax. This same Article 20 has the sixth point, which states that the recipients of denationalisation bonds receive no income at the time of receipt of these denationalisation bonds and are therefore excluded. However, to exclude, in a later article, such as an attempt by the Government, the full payment of up to 70 billion interest on these denationalisation bonds, of course, is not correct, and I would therefore ask that whatever we change in Article 6, this does not necessarily mean that we have to exclude, in another article, the payment of denationalisation interest. I hope, therefore, that in the course of today's debate, which has begun with an interesting start, in particular through an improperly prepared review of the amendments and a series of last-minute changes in positions of the ruling coalition, we will come to a better law, a better law, but it would probably make sense for the government to withdraw at the end of this law itself, because this law does not improve - we know, of course, we can reject it gentlemen and then, of course, we are in a situation where we could be, because, of course, this law, with the exception of cedularity, mainly takes about 90 billion tolars to one another or divides them. 7 to 70 billion gives more denationalisation to beneficiaries and 20 billion will take away from all so-called small savers, as well as medium-sized savers, by calculating the interest tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I would remind you that we are discussing Article 6. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you, Vice President. I have to say that you actually pulled my tongue, I was thinking of talking about something else because it seems to me that the law itself, as such, needs a little broader debate and a little wider views. But I will follow the procedure of what you have warned me about. I will talk about these articles or these amendments to Article 6, which I actually believe and I hope that the coalition has also realized that, in fact, they are all in a row to support, because they touch the categories that we like to put aside in this society, or they touch areas that we prefer not to hear anything about. So, actually, it's surprising to me too, so it's satisfying, even though the manoeuvre is clear to me that someone in the background has changed the order of the amendments tabled, and I warn and I think it's unfair and that there must be no practice and that someone has to be responsible for this, so that the amendment that was obviously tabled later is placed in front of everyone else, and someone is taking on representation, or right, or merit, to enforce such an amendment. So if, on the one hand, this is the obvious, of course, the satisfaction is, although perhaps you don't even know, maybe someone in this coalition will even think about it, because this amendment will no longer be the first to be considered, and their amendment won't be theirs, and they will even withdraw this amendment and even reject the amendment later, as it would have been if someone else were to be the first. But I hope that this will not happen, so I would rather say that such shameful conduct would not actually occur. I think it's about, if I'm talking about this sixth amendment, which goes on like this at eight, and then at nine, it's about structure or one relief for Slovenian disabled people, who must be in our heads and must be in our hearts and must also be in law. It is a category for which a simple person does not understand why he has been released before, was, and is now, in fact, tormented, we are putting it back into this law. This is a category of handicapped people, for whom I do not think they actually have a lot of other options to make this at least a little easier by means of aid or means that would make this easier for them. Indeed, there is some possibility of replacement with assistance, but the assistant does in fact directly cause other costs and I think it will be difficult to introduce and implement in another form of funding. That is why I hope that this speculation will not hold up and that this amendment, which I hope will remain in force and be voted on later. Whoever's the bearer or the first one we're going to think about in it. I will try to say a little bit more perfidious about what I think about the law itself in some other comments later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. So if we are talking about Article 6 and the amendments to Article 6, I must of course first find that Article 6 in many ways corrects what has been adopted by the so-called "Marmor-Rope tax reform". Indeed, some illogicalities were adopted at the time, and today, of course, these illogicalities are being corrected, and I am sure that the opposition will also ultimately vote in favour of amending this income law, because you yourself have come to realize during this time that you have then legislated some things that simply do not hold back. Today there was a speech on ideology - I don't know, because the chairman had already warned him that Mr Squeakl was using this box and was always talking about some other things that were not specific, but that was his way of working. If you are already talking about ideology; this Article 6 - I will only say one thing, and Mr Petek- has also pointed out one thing, this Article now returns that the allowances for a large family are not taxed. I'm asking you, is that ideological then? That someone who has now received this allowance for a large family should find out that the country should pay the tax. So today, when this 6th article and the law are passed, of course this abnormality in this very demographically endangered country will be rectified. So, in a way, we will restore dignity to this national assembly. Colleagues, you did this when you had authority and you could have handled these things differently, but you didn't. The same applies, of course, to what is now a matter of debate, as far as disabled persons are concerned, to the assistance of disabled persons or natural persons paid by representative and other disabled organisations. So, it was also in the previous law, but with this correction you threw this matter out and today, of course, you want to correct this mistake as an opposition. And I welcome that. We also want in the ruling coalition, and therefore we have proposed an amendment, which is listed in this review under number 6. And it's not true that amendments 6, 7 and 8 would be exactly the same. And the obvious reason why the amendment of the ruling coalition parties was placed before the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats is inconceivable, because if you look at the Rules of Procedure, first the amendment, which is farthest from the original text, is voted on. And because this amendment of the ruling coalition is not the same as the LDS and SD amendments, it says that it is representative and other disability organisations. For this reason, therefore, business is perfectly correct, Comrade Squeakl, as it is written. And first of all, there will be a vote on this amendment, if this amendment is accepted, the amendments, yours, will remain irrelevant. And we will be very happy if you support it, and we will work together to correct something that you have done in the past for no reason whatsoever. Here, colleague Friday wrongly asks us, ask your colleagues, best if you ask your leader, Mr Rope, and Mr Maramor can help him do so, and they will tell you. I would like to define myself until the amendment under order number one. It is proposed not to tax the interest paid in all cases. However, I think that when it comes to settlement, the interest may be different and the interest may be different, but only on the basis of a judicial decision are these interest clearly established. And, dear fellow Squill, the settlement of justice is - and I am sure that so - do not work to avoid paying interest, but to get a certain solution - and this as soon as possible, past the courts. Therefore, we will not support the amendment under number 1 and we believe that, as proposed by the Government and as adopted by the Committee on Finance, it is correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, the replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u65	It's a replica. Perhaps it is irrelevant, as it is irrelevant to vote on Amendment 7, because we do not have enough votes, so you will always reject it. That's not the problem at all. The problem is that the ruling coalition decided after rejecting the amendment tabled by the SNS on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We are pleased that you have summarized the amendment, even slightly expanded it, and I believe that you will vote very appropriately, too. However, as regards your irrelevant debate on point 1, I must tell you - if you read it, you can find it on your computer, I see that you have an open - read the opinion of the legal and legislative service and you will see that the question arises, what the applicant has decided not to tax these interest, but not the interest received, for example, on the basis of a judicial settlement that has the effect of a judicial judgment, but the court does not issue a judicial decision in this case or also, and so on. Late interest is very clearly calculated. The KSEL and the corresponding interest rate set by the legislation shall apply. Thus, it is perfectly clear how late interest is determined. What you will do will cause the number of so-called court applications, and I believe that you can also tell Mr Zalar on this basis that he is not suitable for the President of the District Court in Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday, do you have a replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u67	Replica to Mr. Sok, why I don't think it's right that your amendment is preemptive or that it's in the first place. You reasoned that it was a slightly different content. I just want to say here, I just don't understand how you want to get people with disabilities into one box, into representative and other disability organisations operating on a national level. The disabled are disabled, the disabled are the ones who have suffered certain consequences in their lives. Whether they are involved in such a representative or state organisation is, of course, another story, so they are beneficiaries when they receive it and are financed by various disability organisations. As a result, it does not seem right for some of these rights to be restricted, but for others there is some representativeness or, I do not know, what other criteria would recognize this. Put yourself in their role. In their role, they need these resources, they need these assistance, they get these from different ways, from different sources, and I therefore do not think they should be limited. However, if there is any problem in the exercise, those who do not really have this status are excluded, but do not know what is between them and others. This is my replica because I think that you made this manoeuvre on purpose, that you actually made it possible to put it first, but in fact the goal is probably the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Starman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to answer the question raised at the outset on the issue of permissiveness and inadmissibility. The Committee did not support such a proposal, but the Committee's debate was meaningful and we subsequently consulted, received further arguments and, of course, decided otherwise. That's all I'd say. I think that this is useful, normal and meaningful and, in some ways, the point of this debate is that we are teaching each other and, of course, we are doing the right thing. All I want to say is that the dictatorship, which is in the proposed amendment of the coalition, is in line with the law on disability organisations and is used in Slovenian accounting standards under number 40. That is the only question that has yet been raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u71	First of all, allow me to thank Mr Starman for his apology for not having already accepted an amendment on the committee, which is the same and not similar. You know, we're talking about taxes, and only taxes and death are inevitable, and unfortunately for some, there is something else, and it's only right that we help them as much as possible. The difference between the two amendments, between the amendment of the Slovenian National Party and the amendment proposed by the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia is that you have added to the state level. At the national level, there are representative disability organisations and other disability organisations, but they are all functioning at the state level, unless one of the disability organisations, as my colleague Peca has already said, wants to, and we have placed it in Maribor and because it is registered in Maribor, it will not be entitled to such tax relief. Again, I would like a slightly more concrete answer to the question why you did not support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which is the same as you submitted today or yesterday in this week. Why didn't you support him on the board? And don't say that the debate on the committee was welcome because you didn't debate from the coalition, you were there quietly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Otherwise, my colleague Zagorac told me almost everything I wanted to mention. But I'd like to ask you one more time. Mr Starman said that, I don't know, during the weekend of 16 November, obviously the coalition MPs had some new arguments about why they had tabled, and I will say, a substantively identical amendment to the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which they had rejected before 16 November at the meeting of the home working body. What are the substantive changes, why is their amendment before the amendment, which is also identical to the word amendment of the Slovenian National Party, why should we vote in an amended order? I hope to receive an answer, I don't know whether it's from Mr Sok or you, President, because you've put their amendment before the other amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I hope that we will explain a little later, although it has already been partially explained why such an order of amendments is. I certainly did not make that decision as chairman. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Peče. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u75	Respect! My colleague pointed out to me that the debate was welcome. Today, the debate has proved welcome, but I do not want to be offensive in the following sentences - please take it that way - given the speed of perception of individuals who have a decision in their hands. In our case, we are talking about the ability or speed of perception on the parent’s working body. If, according to my assessment, a certain part of the Members who objected, was not able to understand the explanation given in the whole A4 format, which was very extensive, very positive, and later needed Saturday and Sunday to read this text, I would now like to take note of the welcome or due to the term used by my colleague in front of the ruling parties, due to the time limit, of the welcome debate, now reminding us of the coming law by the Slovenian National Party, which is the law on the income of legal persons. Just because a future law dealing with the mother's working body and later the parliamentary session would not have the same effect, because of misunderstandings or slow perceptions, the law would have been rejected first and later adopted under another author. Therefore, I will try to say in as simple a way as possible what will follow the proposal of the Slovenian National Party law, in one sentence, but I believe it will be very impressive or impressive for all. The Slovenian national party will try to correct what the majority of the national council has rejected yesterday in order to exempt disabled companies from tax. Gentlemen and ladies of the ruling majority, this will meet you at one of the future meetings of the working body. Since the content is quite simple, very humane, I ask you for your support. And please don't look at that when you meet this law, the authorship. If you look at the authorship, tell us today that we will not sign as a Slovenian national party, but we will use your insignia. We're ready for that, too, because we're pursuing a goal. The goal is human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u77	My proposal is essentially procedural. I would still ask that procedurally you or your deputy explain the reason, some explain that this is because of the reason I have little mathematicians or children learn the union and sections. And, of course, I must say that representative and other disability organizations are narrower than disabled organizations, and that is why it is at least, which is incorrect to say, if your amendment is accepted, that there is a meaningless vote [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] because we give all disabled organisations the right, or all those who receive the benefits from these, the right to make it out of income. [[...]] Let's make a decision: if it's really just that you vote for your amendments, we'll stop signing, or we'll write you amendments, and you'll put them in.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Kontic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The government is silent, or the Minister of Finance is silent. It is true that they have only five minutes registered at this point, but I would still like to hear the opinion of the minister or government representative on the amendment under order number 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Sorry, I didn't think I had time, so I didn't answer. It is true that we have already sent you one letter on 21.12.2004, in which we have also informed you that the government intends to review the tax legislation in its entirety, because in those very days we have decided only on certain amendments. As you are well aware, we have only introduced three amendments to the Income Act, which, according to our assessment, were of great importance. At that time, we also told you that this proposal, your proposal, will be reviewed and forwarded to a group of experts, which was then appointed on 13 January. The Group of Experts also reviewed this and finally decided on this same position, which is now included here, namely that the second and third categories of disability are actually only possible when there is a working relationship. And because it's working, it's the basis, it's the working relationship that it still has to be interpreted as part of the total revenue. Under the same principle, pensions are also taxed. Income is income, regardless of source, and in this sense because they are allowances for invalids II. and III. categories only possible where there is a working relationship, then this compensation, which is the final income allowance, is considered as a whole and is therefore also taxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. In explaining why or by explaining the amendment under order number 3, I also made this clear. Work disability II. or III. The category is employed, works four hours and for the four hours when the company is working in the company, the company also calculates its income, an advance on income, which is actually paid. For those four hours, when a worker is unable to perform work or is assessed as a worker unable to work, the pension and disability insurance institution does not account for an income advance and does not pay the income advance. When all of this comes together, of course, these people fall into a higher class, so they also pay higher income. As a result, they point out that they are actually reduced by 2 or 3 levels, which they receive in a year, and then by payment of their income, when the competent tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia definitively calculates the amount of their income, they also pay or withdraw their income, which is a kind of national tax. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u85	However, I would ask that the government, since we are only now in Article 6, say something about this story of late interest and judicial decisions and judicial settlement. I think this is an even bigger problem than the fact that now the coalition has only joined the SNS and some other parties. Does the government seriously believe that, because you claim to have provided hundreds of new judges with the first amendment to Article 6, it is necessary to provide hundreds of new judges, because it will suddenly be at hundreds of thousands of requests for judicial decisions so that people do not pay late interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you want a word. You have 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u87	First of all, thank you very much for these three minutes. First of all, I'd like to say the position as regards the amendment, as far as number one is concerned. Let me remind you that in the current law, this law, which was adopted in this Chamber on 24 May, was also included in Article 20, paragraph 7. And the seventh paragraph apparently erased and prevented any income deletion. I can read to you: "Also, compensations that provide compensation for lost income, including late interest..." Including late interest. The late interest was excluded from this relief. What did we do? This proposal includes this possibility that, on the basis of the opinion of these experts, it would be pointless to exclude this, as is already the case in this law that you have adopted, including those proposing, particularly those proposing this law, because it would make no sense in its essence. Every time we talk about taxes, people thank you and say, "Thank you for your hand. Where's the elbow?" Why don't we do more, why don't we do more? Just because we have to have a serious basis, what's taxed and what's not. The only option we have and see without any difficulty is that when it comes to a judicial decision, we know the facts of what it is, but not to open up through other mechanisms the possibility of talking, agreements and something else, just because people avoid tax. This is the position: Since we do not want to open up the possibility of people reaching non-taxation through certain conclusions, we agreed to this and I think this is the right thing to do, so it was also included in the late interest rate. [[End warning sign]] , when they are based on a judicial decision to respect this too. As for the problem of this supplement, this compensation. Whenever taxes are discussed when this article comes in line, and these are exceptions and special reliefs, this is the subject of major debates. What's the logical argument here? [[A warning sign for the end again.]] This is a work that is actually viewed from a social point of view as something very positive, where it has to be helped in some way. Here you can have two options: [[turn off the microphone]] or advocate a higher payment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u88	Mr. Secretary, I'm warning you, time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u89	Mr President, I would like to ask if the National Assembly will give me an additional minute to answer that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u90	I would like to tell you that I also proposed an extension of time in the morning before we started, but the proposal was not adopted. Mr. Squeakle, a procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u91	First of all, I'd like to find out that you've now seen the most banal example of what it means if the machine turns off the microphone. We didn't make it up, we opposed it. The chairman should decide when the machine will turn off the word to the Minister of Finance. The ruling coalition wanted this. I have no problem giving the Minister of Finance time, but after we have finished the debate. All I'm saying is, in the ruling coalition, consider whether it makes sense for the machine to take the floor with the minister. Just to wrap up what my procedural proposal is. I would suggest that you continue to debate and then, of course, we can go back to this question because the Minister of Finance did not answer what we asked him. This isn't about court decisions. This is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Office for Settlements, which has the effect of a judicial judgment. And here it is only necessary to delete or delete what the colleagues wrote, of course, and to say that the eighth point relates to the seventh point, the colleagues from SD, or, of course, to prepare an amendment to the amendment. However, if you refuse to do so by the Members of the ruling coalition, you will not, of course, do so and will come to hundreds of thousands of requests, not therefore, Minister, to avoid paying late interest by people, but to obtain, instead of judicial settlement through a judicial decision, the right to receive late interest paid to them on the basis of a judicial settlement which has the power of a judicial decision, as the legal and legal service says, simply not to be included in the proceeds. See, it is a very simple matter that we have a law in the procedure of the Finance Committee, that we have this opinion of the legislative and legal service, and usually Members of the ruling coalition, at least through their amendments, summarise the well-intentioned, correct proposals of the legislative and legal service. But you don't even want it anymore. That is why, of course, we have a strange situation when, as we have seen, the Minister loses his word with an automatic machine and, of course, when, of course, he no longer respects the favourable opinion of the legal service. I therefore propose that, at the end of the debate, we allow the Minister to answer our question, why not include at least what the legislature has said, but colleagues from the Social Democrats have simply put forward a proposal that is substantively going in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I apologize to the Minister for not being able to say everything, but as President, I have warned him that the government has only five minutes at hand in this case. As far as the procedural question is concerned, Mr. Cwickle. Mr. Squeakle, if you will listen to me. In the morning, a proposal was made to extend the time to explain to the government. That's the same proposal you rejected. There's nothing else in the rules of procedure. That is why we are continuing the meeting, with a debate and at the same time saying that the government has only been available for five minutes. I've warned you twice. Mr Sok has a procedural question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u93	Because Comrade Squeakl asks the government something that I could actually answer on my own, because we don't know why they were deleting it altogether at the time. I propose procedurally, namely, our Group of Members cancels for twenty minutes in favour of the government and we make this time available to the government to respond if, of course, Mr Squeakl and his people agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u94	Your move is very nice, but it's not in accordance with the rules of procedure. Please, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u95	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! I believe that the procedural proposal will pursue the objective of both colleagues of Squeak and colleague Sok. However, I would like to point out that it must not become automatic, that despite the forecast time, the government is automatically extended. That was the morning proposal. The morning proposal was nothing else. But if I could, I could give you some advice. Mr President, I would like to ask if any of the Group of Members objects to the fact that, during this debate, it is allowed to extend the debate to both the Government representative and the representative of the Slovenian National Party, given that we also have a ban on speaking, except of course procedurally. Taking into account the fact that the National Party was the author of this idea, which you later summarized within the framework of government parties, and that the National Party has taken over such authority over the law from the income of legal persons, which the Government later concluded in the so-called umbrella law and that the fact that the Slovenian National Party has announced the writing of a new law from the income of legal persons. Please ask whether any of the Members and Members of Parliament opposes the Government and the Slovenian National Party getting each another 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Pece, you will continue to chair this meeting in 10 minutes, and I hope that you will follow the rules of procedure, as I now do, and even in such dilemmas, that is to say in the dilemmas that I am facing. Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u97	Mr President, I will allow myself to say five sentences about this problem as well as my colleagues. The reason for this is the government. The government has not proposed the necessary time for the college, as proposed at other points. For example, Mr Virant has chosen or proposed 50 minutes and has them, you have proposed 5 minutes and you have them, we have some order in which the college sets a timetable, everything else is very controversial for me from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, because the second time I will ask that I have made a mistake, and I would like to speak again and I would like to have another 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts, I hope you've explained to us why this has happened. Anyone else want a word in the debate on Article 6? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a debate on Article 12, which has two amendments. Who wants a word? Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u99	We only have one question if the government explains. It decided to increase the exemption from 3.9 million to 6 million. We have proposed that this increase be increased to 10 million. It's been rejected, no one's told us what the effect is so far. We asked the Committee on Finance to explain that. So that if the government can communicate in writing with us or in any other way, but this information would be needed for the Members of the ruling coalition to actually know that rejecting the first or second amendment is practically irrelevant in terms of financial effects, that I will not say without purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. I hope that a government representative or minister will be able to answer you in writing in this case. Mr. Sok wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. I think the proposed solution in this law is extremely good. Also, the law passed in the previous government, which was proposed in Parliament by the then Prime Minister, Mr Rop, and by the then finance minister, Mr Maramor, has set for complementary activities a discount of 25% for standardised costs of up to $3.9 million. All those who know little, say, the activity of winemaking, beekeeping, vegetation and so on, all those who get to know at least a little about these activities know that 25% of the deduction for standardised costs is impossible. That's impossible, gentlemen! Twenty-five percent is worth of wine bottles! It's more than 25% behind the cap! You can laugh, Comrade Squeakle, probably never grow in your life, and you don't even know what agriculture is. If we knew that, we wouldn't be laughing. You know that agriculture is just that every day you get a steak on a plate. Of course, those who have to do so look at this much, much differently. And, of course, it is logical that this government has listened to these people who want to do agricultural work because they cannot survive because with 5 hectares of average large farm when we enter the European Union, you cannot survive. So if you want to survive, you have to have some extra activity. And thank God that we have now come to the point that progress in this area is extremely great. The government has agreed and proposed, and it will also be accepted that those who engage in complementary activities can deduct 70% for standardised costs, up to 6 million, before it was 3.9. 6 million because it is comparable somewhere to those who enter the compulsory VAT payment, are called craftsmen and entrepreneurs. And there's one more thing. We all know how we lose our artificial trade in Slovenia. I think about 450 people in Slovenia are currently engaged in this trade, performing various art activities. And this law now allows them to also, by the same procedure in forecasting, deduct 70% from the standard costs. I think that's a good solution. Of course, we could now propose differently here, the SD proposes 8 million, the LDS proposes up to 10 million. Here we can actually go to a competition and bid on what number is the one that is most favorable. I would be in favour of supporting as much as possible and in New Slovenia as possible. However, given the restrictions on the income payment system of everyone in this country, there is a need to place a limit somewhere. It should be borne in mind that this is not a core activity, but a complementary activity. The main activity is agriculture, and this is a complementary activity. To simplify, if someone is involved in wine growing, grapes are a basic agricultural activity, but if they are still producing wine sold on the market, then this is an additional complementary activity. From this heading, the income forecast will allow for this deduction for standardised costs of 70% and up to 6 million. Let me also say this: I conclude that such a solution is also agreed with the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, which has also proposed a slightly higher percentage at the outset. They proposed 80%, then they withdrew and somehow said that 70% was satisfactory, by saying that this is an average, because you have complementary activities that are slightly below 70%, and you also have complementary activities such as machine work, machinery costs, where these standardised expenditure or costs can also be higher than 70%. This is a model that is known both in Austria and Italy, and so in some ways all of our Slovenian farmers who want to engage in complementary activities have been equalized in this space with Austria and Italy. I am convinced that what you have done with the previous law, that you have rejected complementary activities, because you have not given them this opportunity and no one has decided to actually start a complementary activity because it did not work out that this law will actually open up a great deal of opportunity and that people will take advantage of it in a large number and also use it. One more thing. It is difficult for you to ask questions to the government if you have not agreed that those who have time at their disposal could give up some time to answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u103	It's a very short replica because Mr. Sok obviously didn't understand me. But I can explain to him that we can also trade and farming in Styria, and I have done this myself, and I do not have this as my core activity, as some others do. What is proposed, our amendment is nothing more than that we have followed the amendment of the Chamber of Commerce. We didn't do anything else. We were just following the amendment of the Chamber of Commerce. The problem is that the government, whether in written material or in a document, in law, in the Rapporteur or in word, does not say what this 6 million means. If this is the reason for how important this is, it would be right for the government to tell us what the effects are. This is what we requested on the Finance Committee, we have not received an answer, and I doubt that we will get an answer today, even if the government had fifty minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you. In addition to taking more account of the standard costs, we propose in our amendment to eliminate inequalities, namely the inequality between those who have to keep business books and those who do not need to keep them. The government proposes that those who do not need to keep their business books can impose standard costs, while those who generate the same income must keep their business books and these exemptions are not recognised. We therefore propose the deletion of points 1 and 4 and, of course, the equalisation of taxpayers if they create eight million tolls and do not have any employees. It seems unfair to us that such differences are made in the law, because someone who puts his work into the works must keep his business books, has more administration, more responsibility, and therefore less time to work successfully at home or even to sell his own article. The amendment does indeed improve the situation in this area and extends it to those which already have more administrative obstacles to their activities than those currently recognised under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you. Given that the need for time has been repeatedly exposed to the debate so far, I will follow the instructions of my colleague Soko and some others and ask if anyone objects to the fact that the government and those in the red numbers, therefore time has run out, are still available after ten minutes, given that we are today talking about the law on income and I believe that we are all assessing that we are talking about a very important law. So, once again, my proposal to you, honourable Members, is: Does anyone object to the proposal that the government and those who show interest in this should be given another ten minutes to be actively involved in the debate under such an important law? Comrade Sok, would you like to comment?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I've told you before that I suggest they withdraw from us for the government of twenty minutes and ten for you. We agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u108	Look, even though I believe your proposal is generous, I'm not going to agree to one party take one, the other one does. I agree or repeat my proposal, but I think it was also commented by colleague Anderlich. Here you go, colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u109	Of course, it is a question of what is more meddling, or this proposal, which has already been made this morning, whether it is the one you are submitting, because your proposal is simply not realistic. We oppose him because you can't just let anyone discuss it for three hours and sixteen minutes. Those who have run out of time, or those who have not announced the time, for you do not know whether all those who have declared their time right will take advantage of it. Since you do not agree to the mixing proposed by Mr Sok, we do not agree to your proposal because it is absolute abuse and contrary to the rules of procedure. Since this is too much in the National Assembly, please don't keep doing this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u110	Comrade Anderlich, you have every right to think. However, if you consider the proposal accepted by Comrade Sok to be acceptable, then I will make his proposal despite my first thought on the vote. Does anyone now oppose the proposal of colleague Sok? My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u111	Please, at least listen to what I'm talking about. I have spoken of both yours and Mr Sok's proposal as meddling and that there is no way to agree to any of them, because they are both in sharp contradiction with the Rules of Procedure. You can take this as an objection. Since you asked if anyone objected to your proposal or to Mr Sok's proposal, then the answer is to object on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u112	Personally, I am very sorry that the Liberal Democracy Club is opposed to the government's debate on the income law. But your opposition has weight, so I will withdraw my and my colleague Sok's proposal. And we are continuing the debate. In view of the fact that we have concluded the debate so far, I am moving forward and am putting Article 12. Anyone else want a word on Article 12? [[No, no, ……]] I hereby conclude the debate on Article 12. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment. Who wants a word? Comrade Webber, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u113	I would just like to point out briefly that the content of this amendment is already largely summarised on the Committee. However, what is added is that it is valued at fair value of the assets transferred from the household to the company on the day of transfer. In fact, we want to further improve the content of an already slightly more acceptable law or article than it was originally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate on Article 13. However, I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment to Article 16. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 16. However, I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I close the debate on Article 24. I am opening the debate on Article 25, the two amendments proposed by the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? Ambassador Rop, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would like to draw particular attention to certain illogicalities at the time of Article 25 and, in my opinion, to the very harmful solutions proposed by this Article or proposed by the Government by such addition to the Income Act. As it is said, in this amendment prepared by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we propose that that part of this article, which defines that the interest on denationalisation bonds does not pay the corresponding tax duties, should be deleted simply because we believe that there is no rational reason that there is no argument that such income would be taken in any way other than that of the other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, of any kind. In this way, other citizens are placed in a special situation. In particular, in the light of some of the other solutions that the Income Law brings and, of course, is the government's solution and decision, the ruling coalition, to new, fully and fully tax everything, all of them, I stress the interest on saving, on the role of Slovenian citizens and citizens. I would particularly like to warn you that, if you will allow me, Mr Bayuk, please allow me to speak. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the Denationalisation Act, which was supported and adopted by most of DEMOS at the time, addressed the issue of denationalisation in Slovenia in a way that is probably among the far most generous in the world. The data show that, on the basis of this law, a large amount of property is returned in nature and that it has been issued and that there will also be a relatively large number of government bonds, bonds to be paid by generations of citizens and citizens of Slovenian taxpayers. Of course, the thesis is that the law on denationalization is a law and must be respected. I also assess and believe that it is necessary to respect it and not to challenge the law on denationalisation, only to identify what is a fact. It is that it is one of the most generous of such laws in the world, that in other countries such problems are not regulated or regulated, but to a certain extent have taken greater account of the interests of all taxpayers in individual countries. The facts speak of it as being said to be issued for 200 billion denationalisation bonds. These bonds, including this fact, account for 6% of the interest rate. This interest rate is an interest rate higher than the market rate. That's a fact, too. This means that already in interest, those who have received the bonds receive more than they would have received and received if they had received such assets returned in money. The market interest rate is about 3.5%, which is 6%. And we must also be aware of that. This interest rate will yield and receive for the next ten years all denationalisation beneficiaries for 12 billion interest. Each year these 200 billion will receive another 12 billion interest. This is not least seen from the market value or price of these bonds. This price is higher than 100 and it's about 100,3 and actually proves what I'm talking about. What's the problem? In this case, where is the reason why special state subsidies are charged to those who have received bonds for those who receive such interest rates? Why is the government doing this? There may be an excuse for the fact that there is a special decision of the Constitutional Court which has obliged the Government to pay interest to those who have received these bonds since 1994. And what we do not dispute in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is that this decision of the Constitutional Court is being duly implemented. It is also true that, in the past year, taxes on these interest rates have not been levied on Slovenian citizens and citizens. That is why it seems appropriate and reasonable for those who own bonds to share the fate of all citizens and citizens and that we are all equal before the law. In return, we do not contest the Constitutional Court's decision or the correct and appropriate solution to the tax issue in this case. What seems controversial to us is that, for the next ten years, we are making an exception to these beneficiaries alone. There is no argument. There is no development argument, no argument in terms of tax competitiveness. At the same time, this same government removes the solution that we have long prepared, based on various studies, analyses and international comparisons. This solution was to pay all Slovenian citizens and all Slovenian citizens income, taxes on those interest that amount to more than 300,000 Slovenian tolars per year. This solution has been adopted, and this solution applies to all Slovenian citizens and citizens. And that solution seemed to make sense to us. It makes sense because we have done in this case with certainty what has been said here: we have made a comparison with Austria, Germany, Belgium, with other European countries and have found that the normal solution is in modern European countries, that there is a limit from which the corresponding tax is paid. And that's when we determined 300,000. What does this government do? When she decided to give them 200 billion bonds of 12 billion interest when she decided to give them 25 billion subsidies in the form of such a relief, she would burden all Slovenian savings and savers, citizens and citizens with 17 to 20 billion such taxes. Every year, workers and workers, pensioners, citizens will pay their salaries as a result of this decision. And that's the decision that's before us today on our table. I have previously warned that such solutions are virtually unknown in Europe. I made a comparison with Belgium and Germany. Belgium has a limit of €1,250. In Belgium, where there is a higher standard where workers have higher wages where pensioners have higher pensions, they have decided that there must be a limit in order to enable all citizens and citizens to make their savings possible to a certain extent, in particular those small savers, to be taxed. And they're not taxed in Belgium. If we look at the solution in Germany - anyone can look at this solution - this is the EUR 1370 limit. So in Germany, workers and workers, pensioners do not have to pay taxes up to this threshold for the interest they receive from their deposits with banks. In Slovenia, after this solution, which is before us today, it will be necessary to pay. Why? Why would you have to do that? That's what I asked today. The matter is more or less clear. Apparently, someone wanted to save at the expense of these small savers to pay for the hole that would arise in the budget due to some of the other reliefs that are discussed today. We are undoubtedly talking about the relief that will be given to those who have received denationalisation bonds that receive these interest, these reliefs and are among the richer in Slovenia. It is also true that this law, this income, enforces cedular taxation. I said earlier, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support this proposal of the expert group Dr. Kranjc. It's a good thing we're going to a cedular tax. But let us make it comparable, internationally competitively comparable. Let's make our tax system competitive. This is one of the basic principles that you follow when you try to change legislation. We agree. Cedular taxation was not accepted by us at the time, it is a good solution, so we support it and have also said publicly that it is a good decision. But you can't introduce a cedular tax by taking one of the lower rates for taxing capital from profits from mutual funds, which is very nice, because those who are the richest in Slovenia will then pay taxes, which are one of the lowest in Europe, and additional taxes on all workers and pensioners in Slovenia. I am in favour of making a comparable solution and taxing those who are the richest. We tax them less, but we tax them by saving to save in the budget, by saving in the country, by saving for the others who are the richest and not entitled to any tax relief. Not at the expense of the poorest, not at the expense of social disintegration and income inequality. It's not developmental, it doesn't bring us anywhere, and it can't lead us anywhere. I therefore call on you to accept the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy to withdraw from this solution and to give some thought to whether you will continue to amend the Income Act and make changes to the limit of 300,000. The problem is that despite warning you to the Committee on Finance that we had begged you not to take such a solution, you were automatically against all the opposition's amendments. That is why you have not opened this article, so today we cannot correct this solution, which is bad, which is incomparable to other European countries and which should undoubtedly be corrected, amended and allowed for normal taxation of interest. Why? The first reason is the one I was talking about. This is inequality, the income inequality that is occurring, is injustice, is an irrational solution that you have drawn up in relation to denationalisation and bonds. And there's another one. Dr Bajuk undoubtedly has a study at the Ministry of Finance, an opinion on the possible consequences of the proposed taxation of interest on the Slovenian banking sector. This analysis was done when we were preparing these solutions. Your professional services know her well. And this analysis also, of course, talked about how the taxation of interest on the Slovenian banking sector, on the competitiveness of the banking system, could have an impact on the competitiveness of the economy. That's what I'm talking about. That's why we were careful when we went with this tax, so we decided to put a limit of 300 thousand, so we decided to make an internationally comparable solution, and in this case we certainly did not give in to those, even within the Ministry of Finance, and many, who normally, within the Ministry of Finance, are rooting for the highest possible revenue in public finances, to the state budget, to make it easier for those who make up the budget, and that taxes are as high as possible. It must have been when we were doing our income law too. We've probably given up on a lot of people, and we've been taking too good care of the public cash register. This is also seen today in the area of public finances. Income is good, is solid and provides relatively stable public finances. And we have forgotten many times about this other side, about entrepreneurs, of the standard costs, as Mr Sok used to say. Above all, we did not forget those people, the small savers, those people who live in social distress, those people who are still important for social cohesion and our further development. And we haven't forgotten about these people. We used to forget about entrepreneurs. I take this criticism every time I take it from myself and from those who have been preparing the Income Act. So do not repeat these mistakes in the area where we have done them. When you correct these mistakes and they were our mistakes, I welcome you when you do. But when you make new mistakes that are much worse than ours when you break the Slovenian tax system when you break the balance in this society, but when you take government reforms and your actions not in the direction that is written on your posters, not in the society of prosperity, not in the new jobs, not in the development, but in the development, and then I beg you to stop to consider and support those solutions that are meaningful and rational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you. My colleague, Janko Weber, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you. We have talked a lot about this problem, which is related to this Article 25, and we have also discussed it on the Committee on Finance, and in particular we have warned that Slovenia already has an irresistible obligation to denationalisation today. To increase these obligations in a way that allows you to pay interest on bonds held by beneficiaries who have received compensation in accordance with the law governing denationalisation is truly unreasonable doing and thinking, because we are aware whether we must realize that we will have to pay all of these someday in this country, which is, in particular, a common state of all of us and such inequalities, I do not think we should really cause this. It is also true that these bonds are already guaranteed by the State and that their value will never, in fact, be compromised in the way that this happens, for example, by other securities, where there is always some risk of what will happen to this securities. Finally, all those beneficiaries who have received the bonds do not actually need to trade those bonds. They are left alone, granted relief, and their value increases nicely without any effort or risk being put at risk. While, for example, this law is extremely unfavourable for those who want to increase assets on the capital market from purchase to sale in a way that involves all these capital processes. However, the government has decided that the incentive period in which this would be paid is a 20-year period. Yes, which of the young people who want to be involved in this process will be able to save so long and only after 20 years to actually use some capital? Well, it's a huge inequality. And the fact that the committee has decided that 50% of the interest is exempt from income payments is a small step towards what we point out. This is not least confirmation that what we are saying and warning is not taken up just for some groundless reason, but indeed the numbers and obligations for which we will have to take responsibility are so great that no one actually wants to include them as an obligation in the budget and thus show that we are aware of this problem that Slovenia has gone through its denationalisation capabilities. We therefore propose that Article 71(6) of the Act be deleted. This is the point that came further in this article, which was not before. Of course, it is necessary to know that these bonds are already in themselves exempt from income payments, so that this benefit already exists. Indeed, there is no reason for us to give additional benefits to something that will really not have any favourable public financial effects or other effects on the development of the country within a certain time frame. It is simply an inequality that will certainly cause a great deal of distaste, much of which is also a problem in implementing possible other solutions that would be more urgent, more appropriate, in order to take into account the real problems that are of such nature in Slovenia, so that we have to respond to them as soon as possible. And also saving is certainly one of those forms that is right now kind of the simplest form for all savers. However, we also want to tax these interest rates in fact and get these depositors out of banks into a capital market, which, of course, is extremely, extremely poorly known to most, and therefore extremely dangerous for the majority to lose their savings, which they also have. So it is not good to get some into a situation where they cannot save up for proper schooling, that they cannot save up to solve the housing problem, that they cannot save last time for old age and we will be difficult, or that I really can't explain to myself how we can explain how this country allows someone to do so without doing anything without having to worry about how he can generate some income, simply systematically in law this allows him not to be taxed on bonds that he has otherwise received under the law on denationalisation. So I hope that this amendment will be adopted and, of course, addressed this inequality, and in particular, the principle of increasing denationalisation obligations for all other citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you. It's my fellow Member, Aloise Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Since the government can't answer, we have this time. I would say that our fellow Member, Mr Rope, had a very fiery speech here on a social note. However, I wonder if he believes that the workers who work in Mura now have seven million in their bank account and that they will move to the end of the year 300 000. He himself said that in the past they might have forgotten about entrepreneurs, but they never forgot about small people, workers, and farmers. So whoever believes him should believe him, of course I don't. I could have listed a series of measures here. I already told you one today. For example, you are exempt from taxation, tax exemptions exempt from the allowance for large families. What happened to you? I don't know. I would say that you are opposed to more children being born in Slovenia in families and that this is how you wanted to punish them if they had three or more children. This is an ideological approach, if you're talking about an ideological approach. That you took care of little people. If that were true, we'd probably still be in power today. I don't believe that these people who get, I don't know, pay what your governments can get after all these years, that they have so much money on banks that with interest per year they exceed 300 grand. Indeed, it is not true that it is now completely eliminated that up to 300 thousand dollars of interest are not taxed. I don't know if you've read the proposal and spoken to me. So that's not true. In 2006, 300 000 remain, and in 2007 this decreases to 150 000, and we say first that the tax system will have to be completely changed. And I don't know if that's funny, my friend. You can laugh about it, but you had scissors and canvas so long in your hands, and today you want to tell people how much you cared about their social life and how you cared about all these people. And if I touch on an area that you also approach very ideologically, it is a question of denationalisation. Once and for all, of course, you must be told that denationalisation would not have been if there had not been nationalisation before. So, first of all, those who, after the war, took all the positions, and also the predecessors of some of the parties here today in this House, seized the property, ruled the property, when the property was gone, went abroad, borrowed it when there was no longer what they had, and what they had borrowed, and then withdrew from power. It didn't go any further. And of course, all the post-communist countries are facing this problem, all of them. And we are See, you went to the Constitutional Court not knowing how many times, these fellows sitting here, Mr Potz would know this, how many times have you pushed this issue before the Constitutional Court and how many times has the Constitutional Court judged that what was unjustifiably taken must be returned. [[....]] And you have put this young country of Slovenia before one of the biggest and fundamental questions how this issue will be resolved. Which, of course, is the most controversial. You've always acted like you've returned some of them, and I hope to say you're yours, but some of you haven't. Fifteen years have passed, and today, after fifteen years, this government is facing this "chicken guts". It's as complicated as "chicken guts." And of course all of this costs a lot, and today you claim again something that does not hold that they are fully justified in paying interest taxes. That's not true. You haven't read the proposal again. The proposal says 50% interest on bonds, not all. Although it would be normal, Mr. Robb, it would be normal for me to do everything. To the one you returned, let's say, and he wasn't committed after that, we're now going to bring in an unequal legal position with the one who had to wait so long and so long for this property. And from that he couldn't create any added value. If someone has received the land returned, he can farm all the time on these lands, but if someone has not received it, he has waited for mercy and mercy to change these matters in Slovenia and that he will be finally satisfied by the law and given this right. Of course, you thought that you were all-powerful and that you could do what you want, and today you're laughing and today you're presenting this as a first-class political issue and I don't know any other question, but above all, I would say, according to some of your criteria of ideology; Mr Rob himself announced in his opening speech that this is an ideology. Yes, what an ideology that is, but if what you've taken, what you have to return by law, one day you correct these injustices! I'm not an economist, Mr. Rob, but I know what's fair and what's not fair. I know that. And everybody knows if they're masters of economics or something. We all know what's fair and what's not fair. And of course, I don't think such a way of speaking and thinking is fair. And also about the amendment you tabled in connection with the housing reserve fund or the owners of the apartments that pay for the reserve fund. Yeah, that's already included in the bill's report. So this amendment of yours is irrelevant here. I don't know why you put him in. Again, I note that you are not following what has been adopted, and you are proposing some amendments obviously only so that you can speak here and actually start some social demagogies before the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you. The replica of your performance is from a fellow Member of Parliament, Tone Rop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I thank you for this performance, because I think it was very good. He was very good at it because he pointed to the essence of misunderstanding. I hope that - and I apologize - you know what is written in this proposal of the Income Act. Look what you said here! You said that I thought, or anyone on the side of our parliamentary club, that Moore's employee could get more than 300,000 interest a year. For God's sake, that's what we're talking about! Clearly, he can't get that much interest! It is clear that most Slovenian citizens and citizens are such that they cannot receive 100,000 interest! But what this government is doing, what this finance minister is doing, is he's taxing you extra! The previous and the present solution, for God's sake, was such that it taxed more than 300,000 dollars! So not Moore's workers, but those who are the richest, those who are renters who have large sums of money on banks and can live on it. Not those who have small savings and struggle every day for these savings to save something and buy something. Those aren't to be taxed! And that's what I was talking about today, so it'll be clear what I'm talking about. And a short, very small piece of information to illustrate what I'm talking about. Once again, 300,000 tolars, Mr. Sok. So, all related deposits and deposits in foreign currencies - this is the September 2005 data - is in Slovenia for 2.781 billion. And those who have so many applications to get over 300,000 tolars are between 5 and 10,000! But all those who save are over a million! And so far, the arrangement has been such that it started with the 5,000, 10,000 that have the most. Your arrangement, which you are proposing, starts with a million Slovenian citizens and citizens! And that's what I'm trying to tell you. Maybe that's why I'm too angry and I apologize, but that's a really serious question. You additionally tax a million Slovenian citizens and explain to me about Mure's work! And that's exactly what I'm explaining. She can't be taxed. There's no excuse. There's no ideology. There's no policy that can apologize. That other part you were talking about. You said, "God, since that's not the case, it's a transitional period until 2008." - because we know that there is a transitional period, you will gradually tax them up to 20% and slightly less in between. Does it matter? Maybe it is. And very much so! By the time we take over the euro, when all the consequences of a hard landing into the euro area will be revealed, we will be taxing those that are most difficult for them. Perhaps you should be the opposite, as you now say, that if you have already decided to tax them in order to tax them immediately, then you should stop taxing them, not vice versa. And one more thing. You're talking here about denationalisation, Mr. Sok, I was particularly careful when I was talking about denationalisation, and I specifically stressed that we don't object to denationalisation, that we don't oppose the correction of the wrongs, we don't oppose the implementation of the denationalization law, that's what I specifically told you, so please don't talk here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u122	Comrade Rob, I'm obliged to warn you, the replica lasts 3 minutes, you've exceeded the time, you can apply for the debate, given that the Liberal Democracy Club has a lot of time, but now I'm obliged to take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u123	We'll talk good about denationalisation then, because I have some more data and I'd like to illustrate what was said here, or I'll do the replica again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u124	Comrade Sok, I will not allow a replica of the replica, and your parliamentary group still has time. I'll read the sequence, as reported to me. He will be the first to receive the word of his fellow Member, Joseph Horvat, followed by his fellow Member, Joseph Jerovšek, Milan Petek, Milan Cvikl, Janko Weber and Mr Potrč. Comrade Petan, I'm in charge of the order. You're right behind Mr Horvat Joseph, so the second you're next, you can't always be first, and you won't always be first no matter what suggestions you get from your fellow Members back there. We'll proceed with the sequence, as I said. Comrade Squeakle, you weren't appointed, so I can't give you one either. Comrade Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respectable. I would like to make two contributions to this debate. I am pleased that the Liberal Democracy Club welcomes the cedular way of taxation, but I would just like to say that in the debate last year, when the National Assembly discussed the proposal for a law on income, this is exactly the way the Cedural way proposed, but this proposal was slightly rejected. Of course, I have great respect, I am very pleased, the group led by Dr. Kranjc, but the authors were already in fact last April, the authors of the Cedural Method of Taxation. The other thing I want to say is this. We probably all agree here that denationalisation is a great Slovenian wound, which simply cannot, unfortunately, heal for 15 years. I'm trying - luckily I haven't even experienced my family's disaster of nationalization - to live in a man or family that has been taken away from it either a parcel, a house, a home, or a factory. The law on denationalisation tries to correct these injustices somehow, and when it cannot be fixed, without the property to return in nature, the defendant gets a sheet of paper, where the bond is written. This is essentially a security that also brings interest. And I don't know why some of you now have a headache and a heart so that 50% of the interest on these bonds doesn't fall under the income, if I may say so. What about the principle of righteousness? I'm calling you again, will you play the role of the injured? Some families have suffered traumas, both mentally and physically. And because of that - I also have Murina's employee and all the social problems, etc. - but to give these victims a piece of paper that is really valuable to them after so many years, it is interest-bearing, and that now, in full, on this interest, the state is seated, and that is simply not supported by the principle of fairness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you. The word is Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. There was probably a misunderstanding earlier because the order was overlooked, so now it's okay. Your Honor! Today we have heard so many times about this topic, which is not directly the subject of discussion, but it is circumstantial because it is content, it is denationalisation. I must say that this topic is not my favorite, that I have not been very much involved in the debate, but I think that what I have been listening to lately about this and in this law is probably beyond the limits of good taste. Today, it has been repeatedly said that a huge amount of resources have been allocated to denationalisation, and the emphasis is enormous. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is the result of something. We're wondering where the reason is. But the reason is in some acts - I don't know, then not many of us were born, but they did! But fortunately, the state operates in such a way that the sins of our fathers and of our old fathers must take over. Unfortunately, our country is also paying some old loans from the time of the country or the Kingdom of Montenegro two centuries ago. That's the way it is. And if a huge amount of property has now been returned in denationalisation, that means that something else has been taken away. But why did it take away, and who did it take away? He was dangerous to anyone who had some property, and he was taken away from it, so I don't know where. But now everything is wrong when some wrongs try to correct themselves. I'm not gonna say everything was right. I'm not gonna say that, but I'm sorry. Let's ask ourselves why! Why did the property become nationalized, why do we today have what was said to be a "chicken gut" that continues? Why has it not been resolved in the past 15 years when we have our own country? Of course, because there was no will, we can now absorb how much property will be returned in denationalization. Let us ask ourselves how much he was taken away from nationalization! But it's not just about nationalisation, it's about denationalization, how much life and human contact is behind it! When those who had their own house had little land, when they had taken away the land, they drove them away. And they were lucky that they were still alive, that they had not been buried somewhere in 400 places in Slovenia, because they should not even have their grave. They're buried, not buried, sorry. That's why my stomach is talking to me when we're hearing about these big assets in denationalisation, and that's why I called, or I didn't. That's what I've been stressing because it's not my theme. It is true, Mr Rob, that you had nothing to do with this, I completely agree, and I didn't, unfortunately. Fortunately, we don't have enough years to have anything to do with it, but unfortunately, we're dealing with it, too. You, who were also Prime Minister, should have made some moves within the government, and probably, well, you couldn't, you didn't want to - because it doesn't matter, they weren't mainly made. I would rather see that all of this is resolved today, but, however it might be, it would be better to be badly saved than it is, it is said, almost nothing, and to continue to drag on these darknesses. That is to say, when this original sin took place, someone profited from it because someone got the property, someone controlled it, someone pulled the profits out of it. But the one who lost it didn't have the chance to survive. So, unfortunately, some of them had to go abroad and make themselves clear to them today, yes, but what you did before. Yeah, but when? To keep his naked life alive, at least that's what he had to do with it. And I would also like to say this: It is true that some of the solutions that we may be drawing today do not know elsewhere. Really, I agree with that. However, nowhere else in this developed Europe, which we know, have had nationalisations. Nowhere. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] They didn't have it anywhere - in a developed Europe I said. I wonder if it was such a revolutionary denationalisation. She was gone, and that's why she can't understand what that means. He just can't understand. Not much else. On the other hand, I would ask you, because we have something else that is not in Europe. I'll mention the tax on paid wages. Where do they have such a tax, such a tax, a tax on paid wages? That kind of tax, I say, is what we're talking about. I'm just curious, I'm just wondering where and how many of these countries there are, and that's the system. Now I'm going to ask you this question - earlier it was said why some things are being introduced, to whom it benefits. But I'm going to ask you why, I don't know, this nationalization has been carried out, which is now so hated when some injustices need to be corrected. Who'd it be in the best interest of them? Is it with that, I don't know, they were covering themselves, that Mercator's deposit bonds at Triglav Bank, Triglav Insurance, that maybe that difference is paying, or is it, I don't know, paying for a SIB case or something like that? I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u128	Comrade Petan, please stick to the content of Article 25 and the amendment to Article 25. I've been giving you too much credit so far. Please, stick to the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u129	Mr President, I agree with you, but then the others talking about denationalisation should also stop. But, of course, it wasn't your fault, because it's already started. So, I'm gonna finish now, 'cause I'm just gonna pull some strings. And you say, it's been said that you've been begging us how to change some things, that some things can't be done so quickly. When you prepared this law that is now in force, how did you think twice about it? And that the Ministry of Finance has some impact analysis and that we could read it. Now I'm gonna ask. If all of this has been done, why do we have such problems in this particular area that we are changing today? But a lot of problems are, if you've had all these tests, why haven't you arranged it like that? And I'm gonna ask you one more time. Now, how can we believe that your solutions are right if those former ones, when you had all these analyses, led to certain problems? I'm not saying that everything sucked, I never said that, and I'm never gonna, we're never gonna say that. But there is a problem and it is also incomprehensible - now we should trust you on the nose. And look at this when we're in these different taxes, taxes on paid wages. Now you are advocating that it should be stopped immediately, but you have established them. Besides, there's something else going on here, at least I'm not getting along. How is it that we are one of the few countries in the world or if you want to be in the European Union that has the most expensive job - for example, that employer who employs people with a high professional education has the highest cost. And we're talking about some development, that we're developmentally oriented -- every other word was that we're developmentally oriented -- but we have the most burdensome work that can be most developmental. I know you're going to say that others are less burdened, but most countries don't know this tax, and they don't know it, and now this government is trying to take it down by some procedure. Not immediately, because the system has been used to these revenues, and this needs to be addressed slowly. And now, good thing I don't get a reminder again, I'm just gonna finish with the question. After all this, how can we believe that you now have the right solutions? In all the analyses you've had, and now, I'm going to say what's vehemently and enormously - but that's not what it's meant to be Mr Rob's previous debate, because someone has told me this - that now it's all you're proposing right. When you had a government, you could have arranged all this and you didn't. Thus, we are now reserved for all of these suggestions of yours, and sometimes it is right to sleep through and consider whether it was really all right and whether it was really the way you are saying it now, or whether you may have gone a little off again or anything else, that you might have gone a little too far in your slum, just to impose on the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u130	Allow me before I give you my word for the replica. So far, colleague Petan, the discussers have discussed interest on bonds and denationalisation, followed the intended content or content of the amendment and the articles. And for the replica, he asked his colleague, Rob. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I think that this debate is good, to show a difference in views, perhaps the problem is what you said, Mr Vice President, we are not concentrating on the essence of the problem, on what we are talking about here today. We are talking about interest on denationalisation bonds and special special tax relief precisely and only for these cases, this is a problem. We're not talking about denationalisation here today. I told you that we do not object to denationalisation as such, I can also tell you that I participated in the Demos government at the time when we were preparing some of the bond solutions and I remember today when Jeffrey Sacks came to Slovenia at the time of Loyze Peterlet's invitation, and then Jeffrey Sacks suggested that we limit the financial obligations of the country in this case, because they have this problem solved in Slovakia, in the Czech Republic, a whole bunch of European countries. So it is not true that in other countries they do not have this; they do, but nowhere is so generously arranged as we do! The fact is that we issued the denationalisation issue for 200 billion bonds, in the form of property and property around 300 billion, we also gave that property back, and the fact is that it had to be done because of the law. It is also true that this burdens the current and future generations of Slovenian taxpayers. These are the facts. What I'm telling you is that you don't have this excuse, either, that you give other incentives to those who have received this, that you don't give additional subsidies in the case of interest to students, not to young families, not to workers, not to any citizen in Slovenia, only to those who have received and receive interest in the amount of 12 billion from denationalisation. But you do the opposite! You are introducing an additional tax burden of 17 billion to those millions of Slovenians and Slovenians, and you are doing so today. And that's what I'm telling you and I'm explaining, and that's why I'm asking you to accept our amendment and to prevent this distortion in the tax system that's being prepared here. As far as Mercator's concerned, I'll tell you what! The Slovenian compensation company was co-owner of Mercator and sold it at this price which is lower than the market price - if you ever find out in your investigative commission - the difference will be covered by Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers. This will be settled because, of course, these assets from the SOD's assets will not be settled in the Mercator's case either. And another thing, the tax on paid wages, I apologize, was stated here, the tax on paid wages was proposed in the mid-1990s by some economists in Slovenia, following the pattern of Ireland. We agree that the tax on paid wages should be abolished and that is when we reduced the rate of contribution and slowly reduced the tax on paid salaries. But I can tell you that the previous government, the previous government, has concluded a social agreement, a social agreement with all the social partners. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u132	Comrade Rob, you've been out of time again. Your three minutes are up. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] We continue the debate. [[...]] Member Joseph Jerovšek has been declared to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u133	I also believe that a useful and interesting debate has developed with this tax relief on interest on bonds. However, Mr Rop is constantly advocating this or saying that it is for the correction of the injustices and that it is not against denationalisation, but it is in a way that he is committed to correcting the injustices by renationalising the assets. That's how he explains all things. And then it's no wonder he's saying that when he was the prime minister of finance and I don't know what they never forgot about people in social distress. Don't you ever forget, yes, how it's possible to say something like that! How can such a statement be made and, at the same time, Comrade Cwickl says that Mercator's trades are now under way? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u134	Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u135	Old moms and all. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u136	Comrade Jerovšek, will you stick to the content of the article and the amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u137	That they would have to pay 20 interest. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u138	Or I'll take your word for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u139	An explanation of vote, I have the right!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u140	Go to the article, or I won't grant you that right.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u141	That these stores will suffer at the expense of savings. Mercator and Moore's stores, sir, have no savings. Believe me, they don't have savings! In fact, they have capital and the rest of Jankovic and some, at the expense of Mercator's stings. And you say you've forgotten about entrepreneurs sometimes. Did you forget about Yankovic when you politically proposed him as director?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u142	Comrade Jerovšek, I give you a second warning. Third time, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u143	You've always made it possible, you've always made it possible to spill capital, always! And now at this amendment, I think this social demagogy, this ideological demagogy that you're running, it's unjustifiable, and you could be ashamed! Shame! In the time of your government and the previous governments, you objected to recovery in nature. Bonds could be significantly less if they allowed, wherever possible, a return in nature. Even after the government has accepted that it is possible, say, to return agricultural land in nature if available, this has not been done. I also know that at my brother's expense, who got some small amount. He got the bonds, and it didn't come back to him, even though the whole field is from the fund, because you also had a director there who worked for you, and so on. And now you're saying there's some terrible injustice here. I mean, that's extremely rude, I'd say. The extreme unrestrained speech of the one who could have done the most so that these bonds would not have been at all, and now it is against some elementary honesty. But you've been taking care of some of your big capital owners who made the capital, even though they came to Banka Slovenije [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u144	Comrade Jerovšek, I give you a third warning and I estimate that you have not even looked at Article 24 and the amendment. [[Turn off the microphone.]] We continue the debate. I don't know if you've been appointed. [[...]] Comrade Jerovšek, in your debate, did you appoint a colleague of the Squeaks? Yes or no, please! Comrade Squeakle, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u145	Well, I'm glad Mr Jerovšek remembered that he named me. Mr Jerovšek, I asked the Prime Minister what they would have from giving 70 billion denationalising beneficiaries, Mercator merchants, when you tax them once you adopt this law and each 5 tolar interest will be paid 1 tolar interest. That's what this is about. Mr Finance Minister, Mr Prime Minister, the ruling coalition, you do not understand that you are substantially changing the current taxation of interest in Slovenia. Essentially. You share 90 billion, you share 90 billion: you give 20 billion to Mercator traders, young saving families, and you give up up to 70 billion to one group - denationalising beneficiaries. And just a sentence. What my colleague Rob said, and some others: the important difference between denationalisation in Slovenia and in other countries is that in other countries, it has been ceilinged upwards. And that's what some people have been alerting us to, and that's why we now have Pogačnik and Toplaka, and I don't know who else are playing with property and actually doing even more stupid things in privatization. And of course, when the Prime Minister makes a mistake first to give someone 29 billion, he says, of course, that it has to be found in some way. And the way you handled it is bad. Take a million Slovenian savers every fifth tolar interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you. Comrade Jerovšek, I will not give you a replica of the replica. You can sign up for the debate, and I am warning you, at this point, I am warning you that you are the 10th in a row, as long as you sign up. Comrade Jerovšek, you don't have a replica of the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u147	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u148	Comrade Jerovšek, I will not give you procedurally either.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u149	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u150	So sign up for the debate. [[...]] [[The voices from the hall.]] We will continue the debate. [[...]] I believe you have a lot to say, but he has a word for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u151	No, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u152	Member of Parliament, Milan Petek. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you, Vice President. It's a little hard to get around this, I don't know, farsi or whatever we can call it, but I'll try. I just want to add, and I am trying to convince you that the amendment to Article 25 needs to be supported, of course, with all the arguments that have previously been made very much at the professional level. At least I think we have the impression that in this hall we have people who know each other on the one hand, and on the other hand, people who can't disqualify with words like: he's ashamed of him, he turns to his stomach, etc., instead of the coalition MPs, at least after my presentation, trying to justify the measures that are visible in this law, instead of the first to do so, they're trying to devalue the words of people who seem to know about it. Have you gentlemen of the coalition, when you decided to support the government, even thought about yourself, about your environment, about your loved ones? Have you ever considered that this law in this article actually affects you, your children, your parents, that is, all of you, who will lovingly be able to obtain one rating by denationalising beneficiaries, must therefore make up for this loss by paying interest on these various forms of savings. How am I supposed to explain to my father, 80 years old, that he needs to change his mind? So far, he was convinced that the safest investment and the most reliable investment in the bank, that modest savings he had brought to the bank, accepted the relatively low interest rate, but had it. He kept it, and every month or every year he could receive something, he realized that it was money he had loaded well. Now my father, 83 years old, will have to start thinking about how he'll find a stockbroker, whether he'll start reading Finance or not, where he'll be familiar with these shares or investments. I don't think he'll ever do that. He won't even go to the bank! However, some who are still able, instead of going to the Slovenian bank - and therefore I ask the Minister whether you have even consulted Slovenian bankers, with the association of Slovenian banks, or have you even consulted the National Bank of Slovenia when you went into such a rigorous measure of taxation of all these various roles? Have you even consulted with the Minister for the Environment, who is concerned about the austerity schemes? So when you suggested it, did you think that, of course, you would be a wide range of those who were satisfied with small interest but were reliable, so you could satisfy it? I don't know what I'm gonna say to my son who wears those savings loyally to the bank, and when he does, we deposit him a deposit, and next year he's got so much and so much money? What am I going to tell my two daughters I'm saving them in the housing savings scheme when they have to find out that 20% of these interest is to be paid to the state? These are the dilemmas that should have overwhelmed you when you decided to be taxed on the one hand, but on the other hand you forgot about one group, a group that no one has ever said to between us before; no, let's allow it, or we think that they are not entitled to return in the denationalisation process. On the contrary! We have all agreed so far, but the denationalisation process, once the property has been completed, when the property is returned, when it becomes a form of bonds, becomes part of all the capital available to someone, and that is also capital, which must of course be taxed. You have decided to make an exception to this group, this population, which I believe is closer to you, ideologically, politically, because you are representatives of this sphere, of these users or of these voters, you just said, now we will give them a treat in this way, perhaps somewhere else. Sorry, I think you've hurt a lot more people than you'll do them a favor. For this reason, no sin will be, I think that the lesson from fiscal policy given to you or given to you by Mr Rop - unfortunately no one on the other hand has seen it - must have been a big enough basis to attach to this amendment and to cancel something that, in my opinion, the government has not carefully reconsidered, has not found out what the real thing of this article of the law is. And because of this, of course, my appeal and my support for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I am pleased that we can also discuss this amendment on the basis that we have drafted an amendment to the Committee on Finance, which in some way, according to the initial proposal of the Government, is improving the situation. Based on the original government proposal. This debate on the amendment and this debate on this issue in the Income Law is, in fact, at the heart of the government's philosophy. Remember, on Monday, I asked the Prime Minister about the welfare of someone in Slovenia. He swore to take care of prosperity in Slovenia. This amendment shows that it cares for the well-being of only some. The decision to vote on this amendment, if you accept our amendment, then of course you, Members of the ruling coalition, will help the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, to start caring for the well-being of everyone in Slovenia, or, of course, this government will take care of the well-being of a narrow group of individuals, whether those who are recipients, denationalising beneficiaries, or those who, through capital gains, are in some way in comparison with those who pay interest for each tolar, for each toll of 20 hundred tax or for every five tolars of tax tolar, of course in a fully privileged position. Thus, we believe that the debate we are having today, together with the discussions on other tax laws, is in some way a confirmation that it is not clear what the philosophy of this government is. Is this philosophy really a promotion of competitiveness - no, it is not, but it is a concern to strengthen the wealth of some. And of course this is not the society we want to build in Slovenia, it is not a society of consensus, it is not a society of economic justice and I advise, of course, everyone, especially ministers, candidates for ministers, for finances, to look at a couple of interviews that former ministers had about the tax system reflecting the philosophy of government. And what you will accept today, if you do not confirm our amendment, of course, will mean that this ruling coalition is just a coalition for some. But "some" is usually not enough to win the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you. Before I give the floor to my fellow Member, Janko Webr, I will read the order of the next seven to make it easier to allocate time for Members. So, as it is said, the first will have the word of fellow Member Janko Weber, followed by Anton Rop, after him by Miran Ptrč, Stane Pajk, Pavle Gantar, colleague of Lahovnik and Rudi Veršnik. We continue the debate. Member Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u157	At this point, I would just like to recall once again that no country has accepted such high denationalisation obligations as Slovenia, and this is a problem that is currently reflected in the estimate of 150 billion that will need to be secured. And we do not feel this in this legislation that we are adopting today; on the contrary, this hole, this obligation, it is only increasing. And that's also the problem with whether we're going to look for new resources, whether we're going to look for them, or whether we're going to ask ourselves what's right and what's wrong with some kind of exemption. And certainly this comparison, as it has been given, that someone has received land back and someone has bonds, but those who have received land must work on this earth, of course, must also create and make sure that something comes out of this earth. Someone who has a non-taxable bond, of course, does not need to worry about anything and the income is assured. This is a fundamental difference that the government is somehow increasing and, of course, we cannot agree with it and therefore this amendment is more than necessary to address these differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u158	We continue the debate. Parliamentary colleague Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I'm not sure if we're gonna make a deal, but I want us to at least understand each other's point of view. The points of our amendments and our proposals were two. That it is unfair and unfair, on the one hand, to increase the obligations of taxes on citizens and citizens who have invested their least possible savings in the bank or on the other hand, and now to tax their interest, from the second year forward all. In 2006, up to 150,000 will be reduced, and later all will be taxed, all of it! Everyone who's going to be in the bank will be taxed. And on the other hand, forgive the payment of taxes on those interest paid by the people who received the nationalised assets of the Slovenian Compensation Fund. These two were compared to each other and said that this was not good, neither was it. Unfortunately, in the debate on the working body of the proposal that at least the system of taxation of interest, as introduced by the law a year and a half ago, you have not adopted and rejected this amendment in order to gradually reduce the possibility of being burdened on all interest. At the same time, you have accepted a compromise, but only for 50% of the exemption from interest on the assets of the Slovenian Compensation Fund on the account of the bonds. I'll tell you three things, which I think are correct enough, at least two, have not yet been told. Firstly, it is not true that the adoption of the bonds is a decision which has been made in principle very late and that it has been imposed on the beneficiaries. Many times it has not been imposed, many times the beneficiaries have decided for themselves, either because of the law and inability to return in nature, but many times they have seen greater interest here than to have the property immediately, to obtain the bonds, to gradually return the principal and that this principal, as far as it remains, is also paid. Therefore, it cannot be argued that we should therefore have a special right. That was their decision. The other thing that is not said today is that we spoke with the Minister and admitted to each other that it is true "unicum" in Slovenia - these are bonds that are actually paid at 6%. Does anyone hope to claim that this is not true that we are going to prove it to him? Where you still have any role that is actually interestable at 6% today is about three times as much as our inflation is or will soon be. All other related roles, including many of the contributions to the funds, are fighting to preserve real value or perhaps increase smallness. And people are now used to it being dangerous or it's not particularly profitable to give money anywhere, except where you take a lot of risks, you can get a lot, but you can lose a lot, and it's not. And now this income, which may be real 1%, will be taxed with 20% as soon as possible, but here, where it's real 6%, you're taxing half of it now. It's that injustice and a different treatment that you don't admit. And third, as has already been said, I am merely repeating it, but I have triggered it through my question of the mission. The latest report of the Slovenian Compensation Society shows: since 2006 the main company is no longer available to cover the obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society. And from 2006 onwards, it starts to eat its substance and has to reduce its value, and in the coming years until 2013, its liabilities will be 150 billion and if it does not have it, the budget will pay them. And instead of at least a part of that "cash" with the tax also at this point, it goes and forgives further.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you. A fellow Member, Rudy Veršnik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. See, I cannot support the proposed new Article 71, paragraph 6, of the Law, in that I would like to comment on this in the sense that income tax is a real income, which is probably what we all agree on. If we want to tax the interest on the Slovenian Compensation Society bonds, we must first answer the question whether the interest on the Slovenian Compensation Society’s bonds is real income or not. I'm sure interest is real income for those bond owners who bought these bonds as an investment. Their position is comparable to that of the owners of other types of bonds or of those depositors who have deposited the money into the bank. In short, in this case, it is a classic loan ratio where interest constitutes a payment for the voluntary release of money from the use of borrowers. The denationalisation beneficiaries and their current heirs received these bonds by force of law as the only possible form of denationalisation for them. I will point out that not everyone wanted to take the bonds, most of them wanted to take the property in nature, but because of the law it was not possible and they were forced to accept the bonds. This is different from investors who were able to decide for themselves whether, for example, they would buy a certain bond, invest money in a bank, borrow money, and under what conditions, denationalising beneficiaries and their heirs had to adopt bonds in accordance with the provisions of the denationalisation law, with such a period of payment and interest as the law laid down. The return on bonds vis-à-vis denationalisation beneficiaries does not constitute a payment to voluntarily suspend the use of the capital of borrowers or borrowers in at least two respects. Firstly, since the principal of the denationalisation beneficiary is recorded in the bonds, the nature of the compensation for past intervention in his assets against his will. And a second time. Since this injustice should be corrected to the offender immediately, and in order to safeguard the economic interests of the State, i.e. without the consent of the beneficiary, the final settlement is postponed for a longer period. The bonds will only be paid in full after 25 years, following the now adopted denationalisation law. In other words, the interest paid by the Slovenian Compensation Company on the beneficiary’s bond does not constitute income from capital as assumed by the Income Act, but part of the compensation for what already belongs to the beneficiary has been deducted from it without its consent and will be repaid only after the long period since the adopted law. Since the compensation received under the Denationalisation Act in accordance with Article 6, paragraph 20 of the Income Act is already exempt from income payments, the proposed exemption of denationalising beneficiaries to pay an interest on the Slovenian Compensation Company’s bonds is merely a consistent exercise of those exemptions referred to in Article 20, paragraph 6, of the Income Act. In view of this, there is no basis for the view that denationalisation beneficiaries are placed in a better position than old mothers who have saved their entire lives and will now be taxed. The position of the denationalising beneficiaries who have received the Slovenian Compensation Company bonds is not the same as that of beneficiaries and other investors who voluntarily choose where and how they will invest the money. The logic behind the taking of income from interest on the Slovenian compensation company’s bonds for denationalised beneficiaries is the same as that of exempting income from late interest on the amount of compensation on the basis of the court’s judgment on personal injury or damage to personal property, paragraph 7, Article 20 of the Income Act. The Late Interest Income Act clearly treats it as part of the compensation itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much. In the words of the debate, a fellow Member of Parliament, Paula Gantar, has been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since I am speaking for the first time today, of course I would like to welcome Mr Minister, who is not in there, his co-worker, you Members and Members. And, of course, also, as usual, viewers and viewers of the third television parliamentary program. Mr Vice-President, you will probably agree with me that my fellow Member, Petan, who is also not in there, has missed both a point and an hour and a day of debate when he was talking about taxes on salaries paid. However, he must be admitted that he remained in November and 2005. However, I would like to say something about this debate, which binds to the amendment of the LDS Group of Members, and of course relates to questions that have been constantly and for 15 years aroused and aroused public opinion and politics in Slovenia, of course not without reason, it is an eminent public issue in which, of course, we are significantly different and it is true that voters and voters, Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens know about these differences. Around denationalisation, which is, of course, connected with the 50% exemption of this amount of interest on bonds, I would say that. I remember in 1990 or 1991, when we and a group of very distinguished English liberals, liberal Democrats, discussed how to eliminate the injustices caused by nationalisation. And when they heard that our denationalisation was essentially going to restorative, to restore as much of the wealth in nature as possible, they were very surprised, and one, I remember, said, the revolution should be taken as a natural disaster. It happens. And then when you try to undo her consequences, you can never count on you getting everything back and everything being the same. What is, of course, this law, which has been passed as it is to be carried out and completed, is of course such that it can only be realized fairly if events were reversed in 1945. Of course that's not possible. That's not gonna happen. That is why you have everyone who says, my colleague would like to mention something, he will have a chance, I will be happy to listen to him and thank you for listening so attentively and commenting at the same time. In short, if we agree that nationalisation was a social offense, then we must admit that it was also a denationalisation. First, it was differentiated between those who got back. Someone got a renovated and good house and in good condition. The other one's been crushed. The third one got the bonds. Maybe the fourth guy didn't even get anything because he couldn't prove anything or anything. Then, of course, it was criminal in relation to those who did not receive anything from nationalisation but must pay denationalisation. This means that if all Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens of this country, had had what they had since denationalisation, it would be right to consider the restitution 100%. This was not the case, for if it were, socialism or this country would not have collapsed. That is why, however you wish, we have charged those who had nothing to do with the creation of this injustice. We can't take this for granted. Although we must admit that some restoration, some compensation, those who have lost, must receive it. Other countries have acted rationally and have set certain limits. We're not, and that's our problem. However, the law is what it is, and that is how it will end. It is therefore fully justified and logical, including in terms of the neutrality and impartiality of the tax system, to tax the assets in the forms in which it came. Why don't we give 50% of our contribution to building sites? We could give it, it's some form of real estate tax. Why not make such excuses and similar excuses? Why just here? This argument that the beneficiaries received these bonds by force of the situation and that they were not responsible for this to obtain something else, and that, as a result, the right to a 50% reduction of this amount of interest on bonds is, of course, illogical. This argument would be logical and valid only if someone were forced to apply for denationalisation only then. However, if he submitted, he agreed to play the game to obtain property in nature or in bonds and so on. So these arguments don't hold. He holds the same argument, and this is an argument that any property should be taxed in the same way and that for some specific reasons some specific restrictions and all these matters cannot be imposed. That is why I support this amendment from the Liberal Democracy Group and I think we must go back to rational arguments. At the same time, it is true that today [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] with the national housing savings scheme that this matter is now over, whether it is right or wrong, the situation today is different than then, but we are still removing it from the unintended, not purposefully, indirectly, with some specific objective. Therefore, I believe that our amendment must be adopted, because it will do more justice in this law if you talk about it than anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you. Member Lakhovnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I am convinced that the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia must be supported. The purpose of this amendment is nothing less than that all taxpayers are in an equal position. No one here spoke about whether denationalisation and nationalisation were righteous or not. Things are clear here. This isn't the question at all. It is simply a question of whether someone in the process of denationalisation has received back for a billion tolars of Slovenian Compensation Company bonds, can sell them on the same day or the next day on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange and even more, gets a billion 70 million dollars, because they are quoted at 107 of these bonds because they are very high returns. And now the question is: if you don't sell them, it means that it has very high future yields - for future yields, ladies and gentlemen, for no past bring - for the next 15 years. If he had a 6% return on your initial proposal, he would be fully entitled to pay the interest tax. I wonder why? Why would someone who has a billion dollars back for a billion tolars of bonds be entitled to the future to be exempt from the tax base, but a young family who saves money for an apartment is taxed every fifth tolar. That means you're significantly extending her time to get to the apartment. These are facts, this means injustice, and then I ask you to see how absurd your proposal is, why then to the one, it would be exactly as if you gave someone's property back to them in nature, some house, now you're going to excuse him if he's renting this house from rent, even though everyone else has to pay this tax. It's exactly the same logic here. Someone gets the Slovenian Compensation Company bonds, which are extremely high-income and because he is a denationalising beneficiary, he apologizes for paying the tax. Fantastic. But crazy, I'm telling you, this is crazy because no one is going to explain to me why you're spreading citizens according to this criterion. Now you have citizens of the first order and second order. The first line is those who are denationalising beneficiaries, and no one is questioning them to get back what was taken from them. There is no tax on what will be paid back to them, no tax, they get the property as assessed. What's more, selling it the next day or the same day on the stock market can get more than the state has paid them back, but we're only talking about future returns here. What if he holds the bond in his hand for the next fifteen years, to pay the tax just like all citizens, like young families who save for the apartment and like everyone else. This is all that we do not want to have citizens who are treated differently. Personally, I am convinced that this is also controversial from the point of view of the Constitution. This is about citizens who are not treated equally. That's not gonna convince me that's not the way it is. And once again, this is a rational argument that all citizens are placed in the same position. No ideological arguments, no cultural struggle. If there is an institution by accident that has received a lot of returned property and also a lot of bonds, it should pay the tax. I don't care what institution it is. And please don't open a debate in this direction. It's just equality before the law, it's just that we're in this country, or we should all be treated equally, whether you're black or red. Let each person pay the same tax, but not that the legal article provides that someone who is one or the other is entitled to something, but that he continues to be excused for his return, or that he excuses the income tax he will receive. And that's what's perverted and I'm sure the coalition members know why it's going here. Therefore, do not say that those we warn against denationalisation. Do not say that we want to tax that property that is returned to denationalising beneficiaries, they get the amount they get. However, we want to tax this property in the future, and we want it to be as taxed as the property of each other, as the house is equally taxed regardless of whether its owner is a denationalising beneficiary, or whether any natural person purchased or otherwise acquired is the same as denationalisation bonds. And if they want to avoid this interest tax, it's very easy, just selling this bond on the stock exchange and again, they're gonna get even more on the stock exchange than the state paid them back. Why? Because the yields in these bonds are so extremely high, 6% interest rate today, forgive this is almost twice the market price and this is a nice premium, this is a beautiful fantastic dot. And all I normally think is that this income is taxed in the same way as everyone else, and this is about equality before the law, so that citizens are treated in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thanks for the clarification. It is his turn, or his word, that Member Stana Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. The debate is useful, it has already been established. And this debate also suggests that some are very populist in the debate. Nationalization was a bad thing, and we're all in agreement, causing serious traumas, and we've heard a lot of things. I haven't seen it myself, I'm too young, and my loved ones aren't, and thank God they're not. But let's ask ourselves, those who have been nationalized, where their rents are, where their added value is on the things that have been taken away from them. It was some kind of theft and we cannot now treat it exactly the same, from a moral point of view, those who have been deprived for 50 years of not taking advantage of these material goods like others. It is simply not possible, in view of the fact that no one has paid them their rent, no one has added value to it. Even the bonds they received were forced into this by the majority, this was not voluntary, they were simply forced into this act. And now, from a moral point of view, we cannot treat this the same way. That's why I think interest is an integral part of the settlement of injustices and they're already taxed 50%, and I think that's the maximum that can happen. Otherwise, I'm in principle for equality before the law, but in this case, I don't think that equality before the law is broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Of course, I will only welcome Mr President and colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber, because I think we will have to wait a little longer for the third programme of national television. I would just like to say that in two points I would like to support, with some arguments, the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats. First of all. When it comes to the taxation of interest on bonds, compensation bonds, it is necessary to know that the vast majority of denationalising beneficiaries who received compensation bonds as a refund instead of returning property in nature have already received a good 2/3 of the bonds in the money paid. It is said that even now, if they have not invested this money in some other real estate or is lying on a bank, they are said to have interest on them and have this interest already taxed, knowing that the interest on the money they deposit in the bank they receive in the account of the compensation bonds is much lower than the bonds they are still awaiting payment. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] And yes, I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to stop. [[...]] [[...]] That's all I'd say. This comparison, let's think about it a little bit. And there's something else I'd like to say, a colleague who used to talk about denanationals. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u170	Mrs. Pečanova, I thought you'd finish sooner, so I didn't interrupt you earlier. However, since the time scheduled for the meeting is running out, we shall continue in the order envisaged. Comrade Sok, do you have a procedural proposal? Just an application. Thank you. It's Borut Saiovic's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Representatives from the Ministry, nice greetings and all the colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate is, of course, going in an interesting direction and, above all, is obvious, perhaps politically coloured, which is also right, because we are such an organ. But it's about the next thing. I will gladly support the amendment, especially because it corrects some injustice and some inequality, and I want and demand that we are all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the same position. Denationalisation is a serious and difficult problem. I will tell you this mainly from personal experience, because in this process our family was also affected in the first part, but we were one of those families that had taken several trucks of first-class leather and something, I will say, during that time extremely modern machines in the leather industry were taken from my old father, but the gentleman was, of course, closed and had spent several years in jail. Nevertheless, we in the family have estimated that the benefits of this revolution have been significantly greater globally than the damage that has been done to us as a family. We are Slovenians, and we speak Slovenian, and we are proud of that. As far as bonds are concerned, of course, the compensation was fair and fair with the courts and with the sworn appreciaters and anyone who wanted it at the time could, of course, be a bond which is one of the most liquid and desirable papers on the Slovenian Stock Exchange, immediately cashed and sold. Here I will only refer to the quality debate of Mr Potrč and the fellow Member of the Lachovnik, and I will not repeat the matter. Any bond listed at 107% above the nominal value can, of course, sell at any moment. As far as denationalisation is concerned, there has been a lot of talk today, but you also need to know that denationalisation is returning more to some, especially those who are returning large amounts of forests than they were taking back because it returns to them in nature. So much for guilt. For example, some Pokluška and Jelovo forests are today, with all the infrastructure they have, roads, trains, for wood supplies, significantly more valuable than they were when they were worth to anyone, I agree, justly and unjustly taken. Then, another argument concerning this denationalisation will soon come to the fore in Slovenia, which will show that some who had assets had huge assets before the mortgage war were paid and returned twice. All those who say you are talking about these injustices and even taxation, I also point out this, see what Slovenian banks are offering today. Some offer favourable loans for school supplies, others for chicken, third for winter, some for vacation. And all those who save for these things that they can't afford normally, and that's why they're hard to save, and you're going to cut their tax savings by 20%. Those who have received property fairly returned by denationalization, and those who have received it, the state does not want to take what belongs to it. And that is why, of course, I will gladly support this amendment because it introduces some equality before the law and even before the tax system.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u172	Thank you. Member Slavinac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr Vice President, for the floor. So I also believe that this is not entirely a matter of nationalisation or denationalisation, and I myself agree that nationalisation was a serious thing, but the war was even worse and I would not like to warm up now which side was more dead, on which side were the nationalists or those who nationalised. We now have to deal with the present and the future, and if we look into this future, it is all the more important for this future in Slovenia that everyone will contribute as fairly as possible, and this means that they will also make a fair contribution to the budget, on which we can expect then the further development of our society in the future, and if I look into this future, I agree that it was not the same if someone has gotten back in nature or in bonds. If these bonds are now sold at a better price, as long as they want voluntary investment and see the possibility of getting more, and otherwise by 2016, they reach 178% of interest in the poor 10 years at a 6% interest rate. At the expected yields of bonds, as the market is now showing, these interest rates are as high as 259%. It is very difficult to find the same stable and safe investment with comparable yields and so much more unjust to us, and there is also the background of our amendment to exempt, on the one hand, the tax revenue from these bonds, and on the other hand, we tax interest, two years, however, without any relief. Let's see who's most disadvantaged in this. It is precisely those whose assets are the lowest and precisely those who have the least experience investing in securities and, on the other hand, may at least benefit from any economic risk by investing in securities where they remain, but will traditionally decide on linked deposits and thus try to maintain at least the real value of their savings. And that's what's certainly wrong, and that's what this amendment aims to make things more just. From the debate it is very difficult to find any professional argument based on economic theory and concrete calculations that we can all make very quickly here. As a result, this debate, or fact, is always more difficult, I accept without a taste that it is an ideological background, so that on the part of those who now expect a denationalisation return, there are more sympathizers and reverse ruling coalitions than we who are making this amendment. So much, just for the record, because I'm sure you won't support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u174	Thank you. The following will be discussed by Ambassador Rudi Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you. I've spoken before, so I'd just like to add some explanations. See, bonds are securities that replace property recovery or settlement of some damage. In my previous speech, I said that everyone would probably accept or wish to receive, immediately after the decision, also bonds or money, compensation for damages, but because, under the denationalisation law that this is not possible, there is nothing more to the matter of deferral and interest than that this decision should be replaced by some compensation in order to allow me to receive this compensation later. I have to say this: personally, I do not have as much experience with bonds as my colleague has just told me to get the bonds is a very thorny way. The Slovenian compensation company is working hard to maximize the value of the property, which means that what you get from the compensation is somewhere 30% to 40% of the real value, not 100% or more than what has been said in the debate so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you. The word is Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I don't know, it's obvious that I don't fully understand this debate, because if we look at Article 20 now in force, then it is. I know, Doctor, if you'll just be a little quiet. If you look at article 20 of the current law, it is already written that income is not paid for the return of property in denationalisation in the current law, and this law in force has not, of course, adopted the present opposition, but you have accepted it, of course, and I do not know how today you are so energetically defending something that you have already adopted in the past, but now that there is another solution in this law, namely that this exemption is taken into account up to 50%, and that is exactly what my colleague Veršnik said. First of all, property is returned in nature under the Denationalization Act. Those who couldn't get that property back in nature because it couldn't be done, but instead they got bonds, and they're only going to get the principal of it, I don't know, in 15 years. So, first they were 50 years without their property, now they're 15 more years old, and after 65 years they're going to be able to get the property that they're going to start mastering. Yeah, you guys can nod off as much as you want, but that's the deal. At that time, of course, they receive some interest from these bonds. I don't know, with different arguments now you're saying how the government is actually guilty of not taxing it 100%, etc. And you compare that to how taxed young families are when they collect money for housing. I would say that when young families raise money for housing, they can actually raise very little in our situation, but they must be careful that the housing fund does not take much away from them and build their empires. So to talk about this here, look at how these things actually stand, what is happening in this Slovenian housing fund, and what Mr. Owen, who you once put there, has been doing this all along. You said it wasn't some kind of cultural struggle, it was a colleague of Pecan's. [[Now she's gone.]] has actually shown where the core of the problem is when it started talking about the RCC, and the other, which you added the theory of forests and so on. And she put France here for example, where the state owns the church. Yeah, well, that's what everybody would have wanted. Do you think that this is not what you would want in Slovenia? I am immediately for the state to become the owner of all sacral facilities and begin to care for these sacral facilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u178	Comrade Sok, I'm going to interrupt you because you don't stick to the content of the article and the amendment in the debate. Will you finish it yourself, or shall I take your word for it?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u179	I'll finish, but I'm surprised you didn't take the word of Mrs. Pecan. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u180	Comrade Sok, you probably know that Mrs. Pečanova spoke without the microphone turned on for a few seconds. The next measure I can give to people who speak without a microphone is a warning or a removal from the sitting. I didn't plan to do that with Mrs Pecan. We continue the debate. The last submitted to the debate is colleague Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I owe Mr Veršnik and Mr Sok a simple explanation. They mixed up the state and the flow. If someone was robbed of their property and held on to the fact that the estimated value of this property, say, a billion dollars, and obtained for so many bonds, this property is not taxed in any way. Even more, it is not necessary to get it in pieces, as you said, that property can be sold immediately on the stock market and not only will it get billions, but a billion and 70 million dollars. The stock exchange admits to him even more than the estimated value. That's the first time. Second of all, this is about future yields. However, if it is decided that this property will bring it 6% annually, as the interest rate is, it is said that twice as much as the interest rates on similar assets on the market, then of course we expect it to pay interest, like all citizens, like young families, if they save in various housing schemes or anyone else. It's just equality before the law and no cultural struggle. But to you, Mr Sok, of course, I believe that you want the state to own the church. Even more, I believe that you want the church to become the owner of the state, which is what you do with various measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u182	Comrade Lakhovnik, the same is true of you as of the speakers before you. A colleague of Rudy Veršnik applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u183	I'd like to replicate to the gentlemen. I would totally agree with him. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u184	You cannot replicate if you have not been mentioned, Comrade Veršnik [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u185	Yeah, I was. [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u186	But you can have a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u187	I was, admit it. Yeah, all right, that's it. But he's honest. I just want to say that I would totally agree with that if it were the basis for that 100%, but it's not. It's always a base of 30%, 40%, that's what I said. And that's why I'm saying it's kind of a substitute for what's been going on. I'd stop, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u188	I'm not putting a replica on the replica. You can have a debate because you have time at your disposal. Here's to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Of course, it is possible to discuss this, but it is pointless, simply because, in this case, you see, they would also open up the fact that part of this property that was seized was under mortgages, charged with debts. Of course, and that property is coming back. Nobody knew what those debts were, what net assets were. And I think that's right. The state has decided as it is, but from this point of view, of course, it is also pointless to identify in this way, as Mr Veršnik said, whether it is 30, 40% because we could then find out how much debt was on the other hand and might find that the debts were greater than the assets taken. Many, I don't know, farms, were mortgaged and so on, but like I said, it's not an ideological debate, it's not a denationalisation law, it's not a cultural struggle. It is a model, an economic model of the CAP, a healthy farm of minds that everyone must be in the same position. The denationalising vindictives are just like the young saving families. Everyone should be treated the same way then, not that someone who gets a billion back is called no, you don't have to pay interest, but a young family, when it saves, has to. And that seems to me like I said, crazy and unfair, and that's gonna get revenge on you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you. It's a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I think that in this debate we forget that it is also a matter of allowing those people who have been nationalised to enjoy a different status, as well as 50 years of life, who are probably also in need of this solution. It is also a substitute for the fact that their lives and their family members have been very difficult for 50 years not to say destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u192	Thank you. Number One, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u193	Thank you very much. This debate is very interesting, but colleagues, you forget about the simple fact. I would agree with Mr Lakhovnik that we should all be equal. Of course, if the situation were ideal and arranged, unfortunately it is not. This irregularity and state of affairs is such that many people, not only have received this return late and not in value, as they have been taken, are revalued to date and revalued, is still a question. And all of them, when they suffered and had to wait for this property and many of them didn't even get it. But the greatest damage was not to these people today who are receiving property, but to this country, because this property was not in the right function, the right masters. [[...]] And it's the right thing to do for these people, and in some ways they have to get it back. At the time of the adoption of the law and when you adopted the relevant laws, why didn't you then follow the criteria of equality and even those people to make no difference? And doing this exception, and in a way, in a tiny way actually showing a gesture, it's not the right payback for everything that's been lost. But there's only one positive gesture made by this government to make it symbolically settled. And, in fact, with very small amounts. The alternative solution to maintain equality here with everyone is simply that the state has to take care of the budget for fresh funds. Instead of losing some of the funds in this way, he loses, but with this he makes a positive gesture, he should make sure that he replaces it. And I think that, in fact, this debate is depressed and is intended only to reopen the topic of why the background is covered up again, why are these people returning assets, because some, I would like to say it out loud, of course, nice to say about the need for everyone to return the assets and so on, but in the background it is to feel this point, unfortunately. That's how I feel. If we had not concluded this debate and not made this matter worse, or had long since made sure that this property had been returned. But we know that a lot of games are just so that this property doesn't come back, right now. Even now, those who are the editors of this seized property are found to demand, or impossible, and to return this property, or to play a game that is so vital to them that it is simply by law, which is again a strange construct in that 19th famous article, which allows the current debtor to easily talk to any argument about not returning this property. Much of this property is even such that it is better not to be returned to the beneficiary, for it is difficult to find a suitable compensation for this current debtor, who is often an institution that works in the public interest and is impossible to complicate. But to keep my distance, the fact is that this is really a small symbolic gesture, in the sense that it is necessary to acknowledge to these owners or descendants of the owners of the seized property, someone really formally compensated. For they have lost in all these years, and for decades also the expected income, the profit, or whatever you desire. This crowding, Mr Lahovnik, about some mortgages or supposed to have them, is simply a flood and prediction of something that is easy or impossible. But it's not this debate, and because you have no other argument, you're just talking about some hypothetical things that might be. But they'd probably show up by now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u194	Thank you. Comrade Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u195	Once again, three facts. Now you have achieved by this law, or you want to achieve precisely that someone who has received a home returned in nature in the process of denationalisation and leased it would be exempt from the tax on the rent received, and all other citizens pay these taxes. Or as if someone who owns 100 hectares of large farm and processes it had to pay the cadastral income, someone who got this refunded in denationalisation is exempt from that tax. That's why I'm saying, that would be crazy, inequality before the law. And here you are doing exactly that, someone, everyone else has to pay a tax on interest, on bonds, on tied deposits, anything, denationalising beneficiaries, who get these bonds and have twice as much interest as all other citizens, on comparable risk investments, and are deliberately exempt, or we are now negotiating either 50% or 100%. It's an inequality before the law, and I find that incorrect. Not only do they have a higher interest rate than they do on the market. Double the interest rate, even exempt them from this tax, and what do you get in 2008? I'll tell you. At 3% interest rates and inflation, which may also be 2% or even slightly higher, all other citizens will face negative interest rates, that is a fact. The denationalisation beneficiaries, however, will have 6% interest rates and twice as many as all other citizens, will be exempt from interest taxes. If this is a country that is the same for everyone, then please, we have a very different idea of what equality is before the law. So once again, what I'm trying to do with this law is just to get rid of them, that's crazy. And I claim that this is unfair to all other citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u196	Thank you. Member Anton Rop has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me to point out some of the things that are important in the end. So speaking here today, that it's only a symbolic act, that it's a trifle, that nothing special is happening, is swindling, is not true. With what is happening today, with what you are likely to confirm today, you will, on the one hand, grant 25 billion subsidies to those eligible for denationalisation and take 170 billion in the next 10 years to workers and pensioners. By what you are doing today, and so you said, in fact, the law on denationalisation. So, you think that the 600 billion that have been returned in the form of bonds in nature is not enough and that 25 billion more needs to be given, so there is no room in the Income Act. If you think this is the case, come to Parliament with a law on denationalisation, come to the Slovenian public and say that you believe that those who have been deprived of their property should be given more and then we will talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u198	Members, Members of Parliament, would like to discuss Article 25 and the amendment? If not, then I shall conclude the debate on this Article. However, I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Before opening the debate, however, allow me to point out that the declared time has been spent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovenian National Party Member Group, the Social Democrats Group and the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, and please take this into account in the applications. Who wants the word for Article 33 and the amendment to Article 33? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. I open the debate on Article 58, accompanied by the three amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, the New Slovenia Group, the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Members and the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group of Members. The second amendment proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members and the third amendment proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on the amendments to that Article. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, or no later than 10 p.m. Procedurally, Comrade Squeakle?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u199	The President, before you conclude the debate, I think it would be correct in view of a number of procedural proposals, given that there is still some time, in particular because, of course, Members of the ruling coalition have not taken the time to allocate time, according to the procedure which is normal, and to give the government, as promised, a time to answer the questions, particularly the first amendment to Article 6. This I think would be somehow correct, but of course, if the ruling coalition does not want to discuss any more, let us also conclude the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u200	My colleague, as you probably know, the solution, as you have suggested, is only possible by general discussion, but not by second reading, but let me remind you that the National Assembly did not have an extensive debate at the request of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, nor did it allow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to answer the questions raised and to include one of the political parties in the debate, I stress, precisely at the request of the Liberal Democracy Club, which is the same political party as it has now proposed vice versa. This concludes or interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Period of the day - the first draft of the Law on Economic Companies. I inform you that a total time of 4 hours and 20 minutes is foreseen. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members with the first-signed Mirano Potrč and Jozet Tank requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. He's not here. Comrade Sok, procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr President, I propose a 15-minute recess before proceeding.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u202	Comrade Sok, you probably know that the proposed recess can only take place before the vote. However, given that the proposal makes sense to me if we are assured that a government representative is coming, and if there is no opposition from other Members and Members, I will take the procedural proposal of my colleague Sok into account. While the expert services will check whether the Minister will come, I ask whether any of the Members and Members oppose the proposal made by colleague Sok, who, of course, should not become a practice? [[Back-up advertising.]] Comrade Squeakle, may I take this as an objection?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u203	No, Mr Vice President, I don't know anymore, we have some strange practice. The government should monitor, as other professional services accompany, how the debate is under way, even some third parliamentary programme. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u204	Comrade Squeakle, we understand your opposition to the proposal. Comrade Sok, you must understand that this way I cannot follow the procedural proposal, which means that we will continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. My friend Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Minister who isn't, say hello to me too! The views of the Slovenian National Party on the proposal for a company law are clear. We believe that this proposal lacks the consistency of the government, that is, the proposer, in the basic preamble to the legislation. Given the content of the amendments, we would stress in particular the unacceptable way of determining co-administration rights in the company law, which has not yet provided for this in any of its articles. The constitutional right to participate in the management of businesses is enshrined in one of the other laws, namely the Law on the Co-ordination of Workers in Businesses. The Regulation on a European Shareholder Society, which is referred to as the main reason for the recast of this Act, is not in fact added and does not follow this objective. We therefore estimate that the law in this segment is unconstitutional, for it interferes with fundamental rights, as we are also reminded by the Free Trade Unions of Slovenia in their written warning, and is indeed legally reinforced. A new national form of economic society is introduced into the legislation of the European Shareholder Society, which is designed to operate without the establishment of subsidiaries or branches in the European Economic System. In fact, the proposal proposes seven new solutions, touching only some. Re-regulation of limited liability companies. In these companies the registration process is simplified, which disturbs, in the past we are aware of the facts when the same natural persons appeared, had several of these legal entities, and simply, when they were inequitable in one, they were able to close and operate with the other. This package also lays down reforms and arrangements for independent entrepreneurs, which offer a new legal option, in particular by allowing these companies to be capitalised into other existing companies, which is positive. Thus, we are assessing the law itself or the proposal for a recast of the law, assessing that it is in some way inconsistent and that it is not in accordance with our existing legal order, because it takes this right and introduces a new legal practice into the company law, namely that it abolishes the right to decide or decide workers in the management of businesses or co-management. In fact, this law will undergo quite a few changes, since we have it at first reading, we will also be able to supplement it with amendments, and we estimate that as such it is necessary, because it is a matter of reforming the company law and, in fact, it follows European standards in some way, as has already been said, we are likely to be making amendments to this existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u206	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Mag. Here you go, Franz Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u207	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The reformed company law is in line with the European legal order and is intended to allow for a better functioning and adaptation of companies of companies to a modern business trend. The important innovations contained in the law include the introduction of a European shareholder company, the provisions on the euro, the renewal of the arrangements for independent entrepreneurs and the creation of a limited liability company, the possibility of choosing a single system for the management of shares companies, the provisions of the law on acquisitions, the introduction of a new institution for auditing and the enforcement of claims for damages in companies and other provisions such as the declaration of compliance with codes, procedural facilitation, the application of registered trademarks and service marks of companies and so on. The proposed amendments certainly point to the adoption of legislation according to European criteria. In our Group of Members, we think it might be better if the provisions of the bill governing the transition to the euro were resolved in a special law because it was a one-off act. On the other hand, we have concerns about the solution that companies with less than 500 employees will no longer have working representation on boards, nor do supervisory authorities. We expect the law to be improved in this respect, and we will certainly support it as a whole in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u208	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Stan Pike, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u209	Hello, present. The Company Act is a fundamental system law in the field of company law in the Republic of Slovenia. The law now in force was passed in 1993 and has so far experienced eight novelties. The reasons behind the decision to propose a new company law are as follows. Slovenia is temporarily lagging behind in the implementation of a very important national institution of the European Shareholder Society. The deadline for the implementation of Regulation 2157/2001 EC is already 8.10.2004 and is already late. It is also necessary to take into account Directive 2001/86 EC, which deals with labour participation. The European equity company is regulated transnationally, under European law. It is thus possible that a company operating in several European Union countries does not establish new subsidiaries in each Member State, but will be able to operate in all EU Member States using uniform rights. European equity is not subject to supranational law but rather to European law. The seat of the company shall be registered in one of the EU members and shall also have its seat in this Member State. When Slovenia is included in the EMER 2 exchange rate system and with the intention of the Republic of Slovenia introducing the euro as a means of payment in the Republic of Slovenia, this content is urgently needed to be implemented into the cooperative and share arrangements of companies. So far, in the Republic of Slovenia there is a system of shares with a nominal amount, where their value is always expressed with a number nominal amount. An added option is now proposed for a share company to introduce its shareholding shares. The shares in Kosovo reflect the size of the share of the share capital, the ratio between the number of all shares issued and the number of shares of the individual shareholder. This also gives rise to the size of the individual shareholder’s entitlements. Shareholders decide on their own choice between one system and another. The law now in force knows the two-tier management system in the shares companies, which means that we have an administration and a supervisory board. The law also introduces a single system of decision-making on companies, which means that the administrative and supervisory authority is integrated into one decision-making and control body, and this is the board of directors for which the maximum possible term of office is 6 years. The participation of workers in company management is also maintained, and employees can be appointed to the Management Board of their representative. The new law also introduces the possibility for a company to decide for itself between a single and two-tier management system. Minority shareholding is also discussed in the bill. The condition for the exercise of this right is the existence of 90% of the ownership of the majority shareholder. It is an institute of expulsion and exit from a company with the aim of protecting a small shareholder. The bill also provides for the transformation of an entrepreneur who is a natural person to a legal person, a capital company. This gives entrepreneurs the opportunity to transform into a capital company or transfer the company to a acquisition capital company. All of this led the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to propose a new company law and to hold a broad substantive debate on this law. We are of the opinion that this proposed law improves the business environment. The proposed law will be supported by the SDS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u210	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members! The law we have before us is not really a new law. This law was already before us in December 2004. Some of you will think of this very well. Then the new coalition took him out of the procedure and divided him into two parts. The first part adopted at the end of December 2004 related to the implementation of international accounting standards and to the second part relating to the so-called European Share Company and to certain other provisions such as stake shares, etc. In short, nothing new. I was very pleased to hear the new Prime Minister say that this is one of the main achievements of the new government. In some ways, he also gave recognition to the former government. In short, we are all aware of the procedure here in the National Assembly. So, of course, I will not say anything new if I say that in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we support that the current government has practically taken stock of what the previous government has done and now after ten, eleven months put it into the procedure. What we regret, however, is that, of course, certain provisions relating to the establishment of independent entrepreneurs and limited liability companies, which simplify the establishment of these companies, would have been in force earlier if this law had been adopted in December 2004. Of course, it is also true that, in accordance with European directives, this law should already be adopted on 8 October 2004. It is true that, in fact, the vast majority of all European Union countries are late in doing so and that this delay is not critical for us from this point of view. But it is true that we missed the opportunity to be among the first, of course. And in some ways these provisions, which we welcome, allow for the actual simplification of the creation of s.p.-s, d.o.o., which also bring some simplifications from the point of view of business, would have been in force before. It is therefore necessary to make it clear that this was political prestige and, in fact, this law is proof of how often this national assembly is completely unnecessary for political prestige. The other thing I would like to say, in this law, those changes that I've noticed are essentially less important, not to say almost insignificant, are some nomological changes that are not substantively changing matters. Of course, that is how those who have designed this law feel. Of course, I have cooperated with many. So what we have as a comment in the Liberal Democracy Club is, of course, the fact that, in the case of single companies, the issue of workers' participation in the management of the company remains open. We expected certain changes to be made to the law in this area. That last December the government, or the previous coalition, had therefore adopted the then company law from the parliamentary procedure. That he was planning some changes here, because we agreed that there was a need for discussion in the following discussions, this area should be left open. [[...]] But what's ahead of us is what's already been seen. In the 11th, 12th months there are no changes in this area, so, of course, when we continue to support this law on the one hand, we warn ourselves that the issue of employee participation in management remains open, although this is indeed envisaged in the audit commissions. In short, as far as individual solutions are concerned, we have a new choice between a single and a two-tier system, of course, this is nothing new, or nothing special in this respect, because this is in any case imposed by the European Directive. It is new that, of course, in Slovenia, we have not been faced with a single system so far. The single system is the property of Anglo-Saxon societies, with a single system facing in the United Kingdom, the United States. And it must be said, no matter what it is, that they have as uniform as a two-tier system their advantages and weaknesses, which are very well worked in theory and practice. The introduction of the single system option alone does not automatically solve the problem of agents, so the fact is that, or the risk that managers would pursue their interests, but not the interests of owners, in particular, in their operations. We also have experience from the United States that a whole range of companies that have introduced a single system, from Enron to many others, have had the same problems with the problem of agents. Of course, it is right and I also agree that Slovenian companies also have a choice between the two systems. However, they should decide on a single or two-track basis that this is, of course, a consistent option in the case of single companies, in addition to executive executive directors. And that, of course, this is undoubtedly a step forward, even in simplifying the business of Slovenian companies, I agree that in this way some unnecessary bureaucratic obstacle is being removed and that is good. Therefore, in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club at the beginning, we will support this law; we believe it is, of course, suitable for further discussion, for further consideration. I would say that, of course, there is a difference that if we introduced this as GDD H in some way last year, now the articles are going differently from one to I don't know how many. This is the visual difference that is observed and the other solutions are essentially the same, except for certain minor changes that are not essential. In short, we believe that the law is appropriate and we will also support it in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u212	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Ambassador Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, dear colleagues and colleagues. Now, of course, we have a marriage before us, we have listened to a great discussion over a few hours ago about a small man, about taking over for a small man and, of course, in this introductory presentation, I will draw attention to two, three things in this law, which concerns exactly this. This is not about the past, not about the mistakes we would have made in the past, but it is a law that will apply in the future and we can take on this little man. In the Socialist Group of Members, we believe that the adoption of the law on economic societies is necessary as it introduces modern European flows of corporate law into the Slovenian legal order and enforces the requirements of the European acquis. Among other things, the law introduces a quota share in the European company related to the introduction of the euro, regulates the right of minority shareholders to withdraw from the company, lays down procedures for determining the amount of the cash withdrawal, raises the threshold for convening meetings of the assemblies and so on and so on. The most important novelty, according to the Social Democrats, is the abolition of the mandatory two-tier corporate governance system and the possibility of introducing a single corporate governance system. It is therefore proposed that shareholders be allowed to abolish the Supervisory Board and to introduce only an administrative committee which combines both managerial and supervisory powers in one body. This novelty is as set out in the current bill, the autonomous decision of the writers of this bill and has nothing to do with regulation in the European Union, since the voluntary choice of a management system in the European Union is only considered to be the so-called European Share Society. The excuse to remove the obligation of the Supervisory Board in shares companies due to the acquis of the European Union is therefore fictitious and twisted from the vine. Therefore, in the Social Democrats, we believe that the removal of the obligation to form a supervisory council is a very responsible and crucial decision, which, if the proposed solution is to be adopted, the government coalition must fully take over; it is said that the solution will be as it is now in this bill. Thus, after 12 years of operation of the Supervisory Boards as a tool for effective control over business management, this method will no longer be required. Any shareholder may simply abolish the Supervisory Board, including staff representatives, and introduce the so-called Management Board. This will cause a major wave of governance restructuring in the economy, which is not only questionable from the point of view of dealing with itself, but also because the mass introduction of the single system will simply eliminate share supervision - what some of my predecessors have already warned. At the same time, there will be a wide open path for policy in these same shareholders. As policy has so far appointed and resolved the members of the Supervisory Boards, it will treat the members of the Management Boards in the future, that is, directly with the Directors or the Presidents of the Boards. This will, on the one hand, weaken labour control over corporate governance and, on the other hand, strengthen the position and impact of economic policy. The latter is in direct contravention of recorded moves, promises in the reform package. In doing so, it should be added that the voluntary choice of a single system for an economic society is nothing non-European. However, it is non-European, of course, if this happens in a country where politics still controls more than 55% of the economy through para-state institutions or quite directly. Therefore, it is not possible to get rid of the impression that you are a proponent, says the writer of this bill, the government and the government majority, through such solutions, simply wants to simplify the path of political recruitment to the management posts in the economy and to continue and expand the power of political influence and economic governance. However, it is not possible to provide a uniform answer to the question whether the Supervisory Councils are being set aside simply because of a greater space for political influence on the economy or because of the abolition of labour participation. He's both in the game. Here I cannot get rid of the impression of the past when most of the Members sitting in positions today were sitting in opposition, talking a lot every day about the wrongs that are happening to them, and how ruthless this neoliberal policy is. Today, when politics is somehow dominated by a noble conservative omen, a small man is simply forgotten. This is also reflected in the proposal or draft law. That is why this solution, which is proposed, is in direct contradiction with the positions and acquisition of the present ruling majority in the past. The fact is that professional and labour control of management is simply eliminated by the removal of control councils. And what is particularly questionable is that, according to the proposal of the law, only capital owners will decide whether to have a single or two-tier system and whether to have a third representation of employees in a single system, for example. Employees do not have this decision and will have no influence, which is of course wrong. Therefore, in the Social Democrats' Group, we will propose a second reading of the amendment, which, as for the European Shareholder Society, will require an agreement between employers and employees that, if the governance system is changed, the level of participatory rights will be maintained, otherwise the abolition of the Supervisory Council will not be possible. This is how it is written in the proposal for a European Shareholder Society. The second area related to the definition of the supervisory function is the composition of the Management Boards in the single system. Despite the recommendations of the European Union and the practice in the most developed countries of the European Union, including the United States, the proposed law of these non-executive board members is said to be external independent directors, not to be defined or regulated at all. The non-executive Director or non-executive members of the Management Board are thus not obliged or legally prescribed criteria for independence, even though they can be found in the comparative legislation of the European Union. Article 290 of the proposed law merely provides that the Management Board may appoint one or more Executive Directors and that members of the Management Board may be appointed Executive Directors. Therefore, the distinction between executive and non-executive directors and the appointment of administrative committees in which the executive and non-executive members will sit is not mandatory and is left to the company's statute. So, shareholders, owners are left to decide whether or not to organise a control function in the single system. This is not good, this voluntary choice for the Slovenian situation is not good. For this reason, the proposal for a law, because public shareholders are not regulated by executive directors, despite the recommendations of the European Union, we can only guess. Perhaps the legislator was of the understanding that wherever appointed executives become all the remaining members of the board of directors, ex-positions are not executed. Although such an explanation is possible, it is unlikely that, according to the proposal of the content of the ZGD itself. Indeed, the only mandatory Executive Director in a public limited company with a statute may not delegate any powers, which is possible in the proposal of the law, meaning that the remaining members of the Management Board, although they do not become non-executive executives, do not control the executives, but run the business and represent the company. This, however, significantly reduces the effectiveness of control in a single managed company. Therefore, in the Social Democrats' parliamentary groups, we believe that there is also a need to ensure effective and independent control of the management of society in the single system, and the obligation to regulate control also needs to be legally defined. The increasing concentration of capital on the increasingly low role of shareholders, small shareholders, and thus the increasing power of institutional owners, including the state and its funds and the unexploded traces of the transition corporate culture, are certainly reasons for this to be legally defined and recorded. In our view, the legislator should therefore decide whether to introduce non-executive directors into corporate practice by means of legislation or codes. As it appears in the draft law, the applicant did not decide to introduce a supervisory function in the single system with the law, but left it to the code. This, according to the Social Democrats, is a bad solution that does not take into account the fact that we have no experience in Slovenia, let alone the tradition of a single system. Therefore, the decision of the proposer on optional supervision in the single performance system is not a well thought-out move and results from poor knowledge of the situation in the Slovenian economy. It also raises and raises the question why the writers of the law do not follow the recommendations of the European Union, which says that a sufficient number of non-executive directors who do not have managerial functions in society and one group and who are independent must be included in the Supervisory Board or the Management Board, that is, free of all essential conflicts of interest. The Recommendation also notes that non-executive directors or members of the Supervisory Board should have adequate expertise and experience, as set out in the European Directive, so they are regulated in most EU countries and, last but not least, in the United States. I hope that the applicants for second reading, the writers of the law, will take into account some of our comments and, of course, we will also prepare amendments for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič, New Slovenia has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Since there is a very extensive, renewed law with 708 articles in front of us, in the New Slovenia Group of Members - the Christian People's Party we believe it is justified that we will hold a general debate today in this national assembly. In order to coordinate with European law and modernisation processes, the Member States of the European Union are very active in changing company law. In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we consider or feel that Slovenia should not be lagging behind in this and the law that is just ahead of us is making this happen. The need for a new law was certainly not only due to the synchronisation of Slovenia with the European acquis, but also due to the development of the Slovenian economy. The adoption of the law will allow better conditions for the operation of companies and adaptation to modern business trends. Among other things, the new law simplifies and reduces obstacles to the business of economic operators. The new Company Act contains 7 content sets, two in corporate arrangements introduce a novelty, namely the European Shareholder Society and a single management system on the Shareholder Society. The other content sets regulate harmonisation, due to the introduction of the euro, the transfer of certain provisions from the takeover law to the company law, the re-regulation of the independent entrepreneur and the limited liability company. However, in the latter part, the redesign of the others has been defined. The biggest novelty of the renewed company law is the introduction of a European shareholder company which will allow companies to operate in other European Union countries without the establishment of branches or subsidiaries. Thus, the established European shareholder company will be able to operate in all Member States of the European Union by applying uniform rules defining the management, capital and legal structure of this company and having transnational importance. In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we support the proposal to resolve the transition to the euro with the so-called Kosovo shares, which are a special feature for shareholders. Slovenia has an established system of shares with a nominal amount, and the law adds to this system a system of shares without a nominal amount or so-called Kosovo shares that allow the process to be implemented as soon as possible for the transition to the euro. The introduction of the possibility of a single system of management of shares companies into Slovenian legislation is a matter which will certainly be further discussed in the future, as we know that some already have, in mind, trade unions, concerns about the deprivation of the rights of employees. According to the proposal of the law, the participation of employees from the Supervisory Boards is to move to membership in the Commissions, which will be an integral part of the new management body. The characteristics of the single management system are the functioning of the administrative and supervisory function of the management in a single body. This law introduces a choice between a single and two-tier management system for domestic shareholders. In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we believe that the part dealing with business books and annual reports, or the part where the content of the balance sheets is determined, is more meaningful and logical, that this topic would be regulated by a sub-legislative act, because it is very lively matter that requires almost constant changes, and if this matter is written in law, it is certainly harder to change. Therefore, due to transparency and efficiency, it would be more recommended that this be recorded, as I have already mentioned, in a sub-legislative act which would provide for easier possible changes. We are also of the opinion that this sub-legislative act should be subject to the supervision of the Ministry of Finance. We also miss the third principle in the bill. This is said to be a provision which would lay down the ownership of the owner when it cooperates with the same legal entity.This responsibility of the owner is that, in the case of cooperation with an undertaking, it must not obtain better conditions than a third party who would cooperate with that undertaking. We believe that these comments should be considered in a timely manner. Otherwise, we will support the law in the New Slovenia Group of Members - the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u216	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! According to the results of many competitiveness research, Slovenia is declining and becoming less and less interesting for economic investment. One of the reasons for such a situation is, in addition to inadequate tax policy and high labour costs, too, the overly restrictive state regulation of individual issues regarding the functioning of companies. Even more problematic is the fact that we do not yet have a regulated European Shareholders' Institute in Slovenia. The deadline for aligning our legislation with the Regulation of the European Community governing the European Shareholder Society is already 8.10.2004, which is more than one year ago. And it is only today that we have begun to adapt legislation to this regulation. The programme of the Slovenian People's Party states that in the Slovenian People's Party we support the development of such a business environment that will allow the creation of Slovenian multinationals. We are therefore convinced that it is high time for the organisation of a European shareholder company in Slovenia. This supranational form of economic society is of paramount importance, especially for those Slovenian economic operators, which will enable them to operate more easily in other countries of the European Union. On the other hand, the European equity company provides a better business environment in Slovenia for those foreign companies from the Member States of the European Union that wish to establish branches or subsidiaries in Slovenia. The Institute of European Shareholders allows these companies to operate in several Member States of the European Union without the establishment of subsidiaries or branches. An important regulation of a European shareholder company is also an option to choose the arrangements for the operation of a company. This provides for a choice between a single or two-tier management system. As a result, the proposed law proposes the legalisation of a single system of operation also for domestic shareholders, which has not been allowed by the regulation so far. In fact, the State withdraws from the restrictive determination of the management and control of the company and allows the founders to decide for themselves on the management system. Amendments to the provisions on a limited liability society also go in the direction of grading the conditions and the provisions for the establishment of the d.o.o., which we welcome in the Slovenian People's Party. One of the priorities of our party is to ensure the uniform regional development of Slovenia. It is therefore necessary to support companies formed from micro to small enterprises. In particular, it is necessary to encourage growth or transformation of independent enterprises, entrepreneurs, into capital companies. The proposed law also regulates this area. In our firm belief, however, a more stimulating entrepreneurial environment would require other amendments to the company law. When we review the proposal for a law that we are currently considering in the context of the first reading, we find that all changes are proposed as either a direct or indirect consequence of regulation at European Union level or the introduction of the European euro currency. It is satisfactory, however, that at least the requirements of Brussels help to open up the Slovenian market and expand the possibility of economic activity in our country. In view of the objectives set by the Government by adopting the framework for economic and social reforms, there will be a lot more to be done. In order to increase the international competitiveness of Slovenia, we will have to reduce and price in particular the process of registering businesses. While business registration procedures are already somewhat regulated in our country, the time needed to register the company is still a proposal. Our country is still lagging behind in removing administrative barriers and simplifying procedures for accessing financial resources for businesses. The comparative table on the time and costs of registering a company in European countries for 2004 does not produce very encouraging results for Slovenia. In Denmark, the company can be registered within four days without costs and Slovenia is still too slow and too expensive in this area. If we compare ourselves with neighbouring Austria, which has the same costs as Slovenia with registration, we find that the time required for registration is less than half. In this regard, it would be useful to consider whether certain simplifications of registration procedures should also be included in the company law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposal for a company law, and we would like to stress only the need to examine the comments they have already made on the company law, or they will do so, the representatives of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u218	Thank you. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr Dusan Kumer, a fellow Member of Parliament, made a comprehensive reference to the proposal. I myself will touch on the area that talks about co-decision between employees and now somehow wants to be regulated in the company law, which is kind of a novelty. In October, you firmly rejected the law that would regulate the participation of employees in the company's profits and the ownership of employees. Although we intended to settle the area with him, despite the government's announcements, the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, remains disorderly, but this is a legal matter that is still important today when the government coalition loudly notes that the time for urgent reforms has come. It is true that reforms are a constant part of life, and the questions are, of course, what reforms. However, before you start a serious debate on the legal solutions that will somehow logically result from the announced reform, you are changing the legislation in a way that further excludes those who create from the decision-making system. But our marriage, which went the other way and strengthened the relationship between employees and society, you refused. Our aim was to invite employees to participate, not only in making profits, but also in sharing only this and, of course, in the active role of co-owner of the company in which they are employed. With the proposal under consideration today, you are doing exactly the opposite. Your purpose, employees, is to move as far away from decision-making as possible. An interesting comment is made by the former first government reformer in the Finance Diary, in which he identified himself before the proposal on employee participation in profit and labour. And I'm going to skip the first sentence of the quote, because it's too insulting for this hall, that is, the National Assembly. One of the thieving ideas, with the help of which our vamped working class intends to suck up all the serious used Slovenian capitalists, is that workers should be involved in the profit of the companies, in the notes, and that such participation, again in the notes and in the armor, which is only an ephemism for gross robbery, should be locked up, even prescribed by law. End of quote. I recall the words by which you rejected in this Chamber the proposal for a law on the participation of employees in profits, the social ownership of employees. You called for the consent of the social partners, before the hearing, before the adoption of the law. This was also one of the few arguments which he was able to attach, despite the fact that we had positions of trade unions, including employers, representatives of labour councils, labour councils, part of the Slovenian profession, but nevertheless it would be good to have these issues dealt with in the Economic Social Council. This time it's like many times before. You are proposing amendments to the company law without the unions, as social partners, being invited to prepare or deal with the law under consideration today. There is therefore a demand for a association of free trade unions after a public presentation of the reform of the law and a debate on the economic social world. Participation of workers in business management is a constitutional right that is now regulated by a specific law outside the company law, and a solution is now proposed to interfere with and amend the system law on co-management. It is also important to note the association of free trade unions, which draws attention to the conduct of law-makers who refer to the need for changes also in the light of the Regulation on European Shareholder Society and at the same time overlooks the Directive on the participation of workers. So nothing new. We take what suits us as an excuse for change. I support the proposal that the reform of the company law does not reduce the level of employment co-ordination achieved in Slovenia. I also support the requirement for sub-committees to delete fully the provisions of the proposed law on the participation of workers in the management of shares companies and this is regulated by the system law on the participation of workers in management. In doing so, it is very important to maintain the relationship, both in a single and in a two-tier system, i.e. the current ratio of at least one third to a maximum of one half of the working representatives in the company's bodies. As colleague Kumer said in the parliamentary group, we will be making amendments and we are likely to pay special attention to this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u220	I call on Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar. She's not here? May I present Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič? He's not here. And the next one will be read by the vice president of the Master of Klavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u221	Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. Today, the National Assembly is scheduled to meet with a so-called general debate, a general debate that should allow us to talk about everything in relation to the company law. From this town I must join the speaker in front of me and say that the debate today is more or less farce than anticipated. According to the Slovenian National Parties' assessment, the involvement of interested economic operators should, of course, be at a much higher level; in the final stage, we adopt one of the most important laws. We also estimate that the professional public has not been sufficiently interested in cooperation, under this law, with the government in pre-legislative proceedings, and the same applies to the third partner who should play a key role in writing and in the current life expectancy of the law, namely in government procedure, that is to say, the social partners. Much has been said in the context of the views of the parliamentary groups, more or less all the parliamentary groups have advocated the idea that the law is good, they have referred to the European Share Book, they have called for urgency, if necessary. However, I would like to say from this point of view, when I speak on behalf of the Member, that it seems to me that economic operators in our country would, of course, earn much more than the government is offering them in the framework of a bill. Allow me to point out that, of course, the protection of a small shareholder, as the government points out in its explanation, is unfortunately not in the context of the explanation that the Minister had to discuss in order to explain the law, but, of course, he did not take advantage of this possibility, although he knew when the topic started and, in my opinion, this is a major criticism to the Minister and something like this should not have happened at the time of the consideration of the company law. Not only does this show an underestimating attitude towards the National Assembly, which we are more or less accustomed to, but it is my view that this shows an underestimating attitude towards companies, which is worth all criticism. If this is how the Minister shows his attitude, then how should we expect a positive attitude from the law to its users, i.e. to companies. Much has been said and more, much beauty of unity. Of course, unity in certain countries of the European Union or in the world is a positive phenomenon, reducing unnecessary complications, but of course in different economies. In those economies where the establishment or ownership is not linked to the structure of the movement, as is the case in the Republic of Slovenia. We probably all know that this relationship of establishment in our country is still some kind of uniformity and therefore allowing this possibility, in particular, to be established in more or less direct or indirect societies with parastatal institutions, is easy and, I will repeat the thought of one speaker in front of me, the shift in decision-making, I stress, the shift in the decision-making of an employee to the policy of a particular economic society. So it is not true to say that unity exclusively promotes the quality of work, far from that. In a given situation where Slovenia is now, in my opinion, of course, it would also be necessary to maintain duality. In particular, due to supervision, particularly due to the lack of transparency, the operation, not to take companies wrongly, but to the lack of transparency of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is more or less interfering with the framework of companies, as I said at the outset in a direct or direct role. And whoever denies, that is, the fact of the role and the management of certain companies, by connected, more or less connected persons by the government, will bluff for this payphone or behind this microphone, however you prefer it. Furthermore, I would like to say that despite the words that came from the mouth of almost all representatives of the parliamentary groups, how good, comprehensive and similar the law is, I cannot insist on this. According to my assessment, the fundamental dilemma that we have already advocated on so many occasions in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group around the accompanying laws, i.e. the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Society through the budgetary acts, acts accompanying public finances, is still missing. Last but not least, we have repeated this debate on several occasions in connection with the takeover law and the anti-competitive law. But it never did. This is the play of so-called company rules, where it is still regrettable, and this government has also agreed to register individual entities on the market both on the basis of the company law and on the basis of the law on public companies. The new law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not solve the greatest anomaly of the existing area of economic life in the field of economic operators. It will continue to be allowed in advance to allow an individual company to be simultaneously registered under the Company Act and under the Public Companies Act. While we look at the introductory provisions of both laws, we see that each of these two laws is pursuing a completely different objective, or setting a completely different goal for the company to operate. Economic companies, such as capital companies, take, pursue one of the exclusive goals, making profits. Public companies are pursuing a different objective, namely the provision of public interest. Ensuring public interest and pursuing the goal of making profits are contrary. And as long as we allow this within the legislative branch of government and blindly follow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which allows this on purpose, such an anomaly, so long as I turn to finance alone, we cannot expect that the recent revenues under public finances or the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will rise to the level that should be in our country. There is much that the Slovenian National Party points out around the budget in 2000, 2001, 2003, 2004 and so on until 2006, 2007 that the structure of the budget revenue is missing, not only is it not development-oriented, but it is also not economically oriented. We all know that our country's tax revenues exceed 95% of all budget revenues and that so-called non-tax revenue is less than 10%. You seem to have come to terms with this, except obviously the Members of the Slovenian National Party Group. And when we have told you several times that we should clearly set a gap, that the same company cannot speculate with the credit ratings of the Company Act and the credit ratings of the Public Companies Act, I have told you earlier what are the introductory provisions, which are the objectives of the company's operations, not the previous government, nor this government today, when it has the option to do so. But that I do not touch other things I will continue to touch only those things that have an impact or effect on public finances. Like the previous government, this government has made a second mistake, according to my assessment of second in value, this is the area of concessions. As we know, concession activity is one of those activities that has not yet been regulated by any roof law, but that is the substance of the company law, because it had to be. As we know, he has the right to concession, he is exclusively the holder of this right of the State or the local community. And who today regulates the concessional relationship, that is, the relationship between the concessionaire and the concessionaire, who? The local community, by its decrees, i.e. the sub-legislative acts adopted by it in any way or by a State which does not have law and concessions, accepts it depending on the wishes of the concessionaires, but we must be aware that these are budgetary revenues and, despite the fact that the current government, when its representatives were still sitting in Parliament, has always agreed on this theory, has neither indicated the need for it, nor has it indicated a plan for the concession law to include part of it in the economic societies law. Of course, those who get to know at least a little about the budgets of local communities will see that on the revenue side of municipal budgets there are a great deal of revenue from concessions, some municipalities can exploit it. If we look at the state budget, whose administrator is the Minister of Finance or Government, however you want, we will see that these revenues are not even below the point of differing income, compared to the size of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, with the average budget of each local community, which is not everything in the area of local communities as it should be. This is precisely why legislation in this area is lacking, and this is our fault. On the basis of the discussion, they are discussing with a number of mayors - perhaps at the same time also a Member - but this is not important at this stage - some mayors have found themselves and have written individual concessional acts, so they have taken part in cooperation with companies that have brought the necessary money into their local budget. But there are individual local communities that, of course, can't take advantage of it. And you know what their answer is? This has not been defined by the State, not in the roof law that we miss, not in the company law, so this is left to us. But of course, that there will be no mistake of ignorance or lack of Slovenian legislation only on the part of representatives of the local community, the Slovenian government behaves exactly as it does with the issue of concessions. As regards the anomalies in the current system of operation of companies, I would like to point out, in part, the thought of one of the Members, who stressed how good and how correct this law is, and say that one of his better solutions is also to shorten the time for registration and how that time should be reduced. In comparison, I think he listed one of the Scandinavian countries and neighbouring Austria. But if, ladies and gentlemen, we are to be concerned exclusively - the emphasis is solely on because this has been exposed several times - that time needed to register, then this concern is very fogged. According to my assessment and I believe that, even as my fellow Members have estimated, we should be particularly concerned about the time of the survival of companies. Not only is the company established within three weeks or three days, but, above all, how long will these companies live, what will the law that is before us and which is the umbrella law for their operation enable them to survive. This is the dimension of time that Members and Members should be concerned about. Not only is that registration period how quickly we are going to get there, but especially how long will that period be for these companies to survive. This is a problem, according to our assessment, of the economic area within our country. However, as I said at the outset, it all reminds me, at least personally, of the good part of the farce, that is, today's general debate, without, or the deficit of public presentation, the deficit of the professional debate, and ultimately the deficits of discussion with the social partners. This is how we assess, or at least I estimate, that the proposal for a law on companies that does not solve the basic anomalies that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia knows - I would not say if we had met today for the first time, even though the government representatives are looking at me as if they were hearing it for the first time. But if they had at least a little look at the MRIs back, past years, different areas, then they would know that this dilemma is old. However, if representatives of the government and the minister also looked at the events in our country, the budgetary revenues and the loss of these budgetary revenues, even because of the unregulated situation in the form of a company law, then, of course, the matter would be different. But it is obvious that it is not in the interest of regulating the situation between the company law and the law on public companies. Why not? Government officials probably know how to answer each other. This is because companies, when they come or in that positive image or in a negative image, and who are able to register on the basis of two laws, are transferred plus or minus. Whether it will be covered by the local community, then they will return or return to the title, or the rights under the Law on Public Economics. But if they have a plus, they will turn to emerging rights, so to speak, under the law on companies. And in my opinion, we should not be on behalf of a healthy economy in our country, a healthy economy, not a political economy. According to my assessment, today the government should adopt a decision to supplement the bill with corrections that will prevent the double designation of enterprises and each of you knows at least five of these companies, whether at national or local level. Some of them are also the largest among us who are registered under double laws. And we should tell the government to make it real, to come before this national assembly with a law that will prevent it. The law, which will be written in the first and main stages to ensure that companies survive, not only to register faster. And in the second phase, a law that will, of course, result in a reduction in tax revenues and an increase in non-tax revenues. Thanks for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Franz Capuder. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! It has been said many times that this law replaces the old law and all its novels that have so far been established. I would focus on just a few of the inserts in this law, first of all on the part of the law that talks about business books and annual reports. Mr Mikolić, a fellow Member, spoke about this and I think that the matter under consideration in these parts of the law is a living issue and needs to be addressed as such. If she is alive, then we feel that she needs to be constantly complemented, and if a solution is written into the law, we feel that the solution in the law is much more difficult to correct than if some of the solutions are recorded in the sub-laws prepared by the appropriate Ministry. We believe that in this case the mother ministry, the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Finance could be appropriate. The second thing to focus on is the fact that the law introduces European equity. The problem with the implementation of this term or of this company is in particular that this company will be subject to two laws, national and supranational, i.e. European legislation. As I am aware, the introduction of these companies is not yet something specific, more vague than not, after all, it is a European Union pilot project. I suppose there will also be some changes and corrections. As with my first thought on business books and the annual report, it seems very difficult to correct some changes with the law if this can be done in a different way. I don't know how, but I do hope that the bill-makers might think about that too. I'd stop at the 23rd, that's the company's protection. I am of the opinion that it would be necessary to introduce an institution that would have a review of all the names of the companies. These are already those registered and also those in the registration process. It seems to me that this would allow for some easier registration, but it would not duplicate the names of companies and I think that it would also be appropriate at this level, at this institute or at this institution, the solutions provided by the law on compulsory use of the Slovenian language would apply accordingly. The current arrangement is such that it is only before entry into the register that the company’s name is checked and, if it does not correspond, the entire registration process is repeated. And lastly, this is the 473rd article, this is the limitation of the associates in the d.o.o. There has been an opinion that it is pointless to limit the number of participants or that it is necessary to agree somewhere on why this restriction is relevant and precisely and why it is precisely in these proposed numbers proposed in the law. Otherwise, I will support the marriage at this first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u226	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Economy! One of the innovations introduced by the new company law is the possibility for companies to opt for a single or two-tier management system. This determines some fundamental solutions that are very different between systems. A unique answer to the question which management system is better is simply not. As it is said, this is a key and very important novelty of the new company law. In theory and practice, two opposite management systems have been developed: single, that is Anglo-Saxon, and two-tier or continental European. I'm not going to talk about the characteristics and the positive and negative sides of the two-tier system, we all know more or less about this system. We know two management bodies in the single system. These are a meeting of shareholders and a board of directors. The Assembly shall, by its composition and by its jurisdiction, not differ substantially from the Assembly of the two-tier management system. Thus, it remains the responsibility of the Assembly to appoint directors of the company. But there is a greater difference in the board of directors. Its members are directors who are already divided by law into non-executive and executive directors. In theory, the management of the company has the power of the board of directors as the managing body, but it transfers its competence to the executive directors and retains its competence to control their work. Once again, I would like to point out that there are executive and non-executive directors on the board of directors. The company may also have executive directors who are not members of the Management Board. Such companies could be said to have two types of executive directors, who also have different powers, tasks and responsibilities. Otherwise, the role of the Executive Directors is very similar to that of the members of the administrations in the two-tier management system, since the Executive Directors run the business of the company. As it is said, there is no universal rule that can be used to govern an economic society. The management of companies in terms of regulating the relationship between shareholders and administrations cannot be understood simply as a legal category. We must be aware of the fact that different management models have evolved into different economic and social systems. The clean two-tier system developed, as it is said, in a German environment characterised by majority shareholders of companies, strong participation of shareholders, participation of employees, a less liquid capital market, as well as a proportional electoral system. The issue of a better or worse system arises only in recent years when we are witnessing serious globalisation trends in the economy. It started with the integration of multinational companies and further with the strong tendency of shareholders to comply with advanced company management standards. The logical consequence of these trends and requirements is that the search for the most effective management system that would reduce the risk to shareholders takes into account their interests and, last but not least, with the optimal impact of the relevant stakeholders on the continuation of capital companies. The choice of a single or two-tier professional system may be advised to the shareholders by this option in the future. The company’s management and management practice over the years has shown that the single system is likely to be more effective when a specific company has a majority or dominant shareholder. At that time, the merger of the management and supervisory authority may constitute a certain advantage, since there is no real conflict between the interests of the shareholder and the administration. The objectives and purposes of such companies shall be defined mainly by the majority shareholder, whether by that natural person or by an economic company. The merger of the two authorities thus means a more efficient and faster adoption of important decisions. A slightly different situation of interest relations can be found in companies with a diversified share structure. They do not have the capacity to express the objectives of society, as their interests differ. Their only common denominator is the expectation of dividend returns and the growth of market share prices. In these cases, an important role can be played by the Supervisory Board, which is separate from the Administration, and its task, in addition to exercising supervision and motivation of the Administration, is also, on behalf of shareholders, the creation of objectives and the purpose of the company or at least a continuous search for the common interest of capital owners, that is, shareholders. These positive effects also make the control exercised by a separate body more qualitative and transparent, which is a key interest of shareholders. In such cases, the separation of supervisory and management authorities may therefore constitute a certain advantage. I myself will support the proposed law because of the novelty, the modernisation of the European standards adopted by law, as well as the possibility of choosing companies between a single and two-tier management system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u227	Thank you. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I expect from the debate on the law, in particular, that representatives of the government, as well as representatives of the parliamentary groups, will also make clear their position on whether they agree with the fact that, at least after the opinion of the Social Democrats, the proposed law does not take into account Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution, that Slovenia is also a social state, and that it does not take into account Article 75 of the Constitution, which defines the co-decision of workers in the management of companies. I agree that we have the right and the opportunity and that it is also good that, in addition to the European shareholder society and the transition to it, we also have the option of choosing between a one- and two-tier system of corporate governance, although I will take the risk and I will honestly say what I have said in the case of the introduction of some other solutions into our legal system, that it is not necessary that the good results of these companies abroad will have immediate effect with us. The owners have also been different in us as they have been in developed capitalism over the decades, and in our ten years, in a way that I believe many times, was legal, and the question is whether it was entirely on the edge or at the borders of law, when it is also morally questionable. Therefore, the behaviour of such and such owners in the companies themselves can be different from that in which the capital was created in a different way. But despite that, I basically accept this idea. However, I do not accept the fact that by opening up the possibility of introducing single management companies, they will leave such management to owners to decide for themselves whether they will also adopt a system of co-decision in single management companies or allow workers' representatives and representatives to participate only in commissions with a clear definition that these commissions do not have decision-making powers. These committees are, in principle, preparatory decision-making bodies and certainly the quality of the composition or cooperation in these commissions is not the same. I would like to point out in this regard to representatives of the government and the government coalition, who have not spoken or have not yet said so, also to one of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which was very exploited by the coalition when we discussed the law on RTV and declared that the Constitutional Court's decision declared the law on RTV to be unconstitutional and that this is one of the reasons why we have to change it. It has indeed declared it, but with a clear justification that there is an unconstitutional situation in this country because, under the law on the participation of workers in management, we have not regulated and adopted a specific law on the participation of workers in the management of institutions - and this is not only an issue of RTV, which, although later on, has regulated the cooperation of employees, but that we do not have a law. There, the Constitutional Court has made it clear that Articles 2 and 75 of the Constitution and the obligation we have adopted under the law on the participation of workers in management obliges the State to regulate the participation of workers in institutions, in particular in companies. I think we should think about this formal obligation and, in this way, settle it. However, I am sure that it is the same or even stronger reason than the formal obligation of the fact that we really want. If we really want a society of cooperation, work and capital, if we really want a society in which the widest possible circle will be involved in the management and decision-making of society, and this also has the feeling that it participates in important decisions if we want to be a social state, then we will, for substantive reasons rather than formal reasons, ensure that companies with single management also have a legal obligation to participate in the management of companies, but not leave this alone to their participation in the commissions or perhaps even the free will of owners who decide on a single society, that they will or will not adopt a system of co-decision between workers in their decision-making. It is now possible to understand this law. I'm saying it would be bad in any case. In the end, I'm sure my colleague Maja Potter will talk more about this. We have asked our research sector for a shorter comparative review of the participation of workers in the management of companies in the European Union countries. A mere review of this data shows that there are some serious forms of cooperation in most European countries. I believe that our government also has this review, if not, we will make it available to it and will help it with its conviction or its definition to be substantially supplemented at this point in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Master Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, although I miss the Minister of State. At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, I asked the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs when a law would be drawn up to implement the European Directive on the co-ordination of workers in the European Shareholder Society. It was responsible for preparing such a law. Of course, I had already pointed out that one of the options for implementing this Directive was also in the company law, but that the solutions offered in this law did not indicate a willingness to implement this Directive. Hearing the debates of the vast majority of representatives of the parliamentary groups also focuses on highlighting two advantages: this is the choice between a single and two-tier management system in companies and the emphasis on everything that is linked to a European shareholder society. Unfortunately, there is nothing on the directive on co-management of workers in the European Shareholder Society. And now, if you allow me, I would like to point out that, at a time when we are talking about reforms and how we need to become competitive with the other economies within the European Union, while the European Union, through the Lisbon Strategy, has even set itself the goal of becoming one of the most competitive economies, some have obviously overlooked that the European Union, in parallel with this desire to become a global economic power, has stressed and stressed the European social model. We have already pointed out the second article of the Constitution, which defines Slovenia as a legal and social state. The element under which the social state is assessed is also the extent to which the whole part of society is involved in resolving fundamental social issues. Economic issues are essential in this regard. If we judge this from the point of view of social dialogue and social partnership, then these two are precisely the basis for assessing the degree of democracy of a society. As with other social processes, social dialogue also depends on the state and trends of the economy. That is why I think it is important to talk about social dialogue and social partnership. In the context of the social partnership, the participation of workers in management is essential, as it is also a way to take account of the use or use of human resources that are in the economy, so as not to be misunderstood. And it is a shame to deny it if we expel workers from management, because then their interest in the performance of companies is significantly lower than it could have been if they were involved. If I refer to the comparative review prepared by the research sector at my request, then let me say that from this review covering the 25 countries of the European Union and Norway, it can be seen that large-scale rights of participation in private and state companies are taken into account or realised in 12 countries. That's what they say, in the bad half of the country. And there are, for example, Luxembourg, Norway and Sweden in the single and double management of Finland, and in the dual management in the eight countries of Austria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Hungary, the Netherlands, Slovakia and, for the time being, Slovenia. Only three countries are in the framework of the review which do not know any form of participation of workers in the exercise. This is Britain, Italy and Belgium. Those countries that I have not mentioned, which I have not listed, are such that, with a certain restriction, they also have extensive rights to participate in management, either in state or in private companies. What needs to be said, however, in this context, is that the most common share of workers in the management bodies is up to one third, with the exception of Germany, and I particularly point out that in companies with more than 2000 employees, workers have as much as half of the votes in the management bodies. This means that those countries to which we like to refer, either in terms of economic efficiency, efficiency or social justice, these countries know, take into account and appreciate the share that workers can contribute to the management of companies. Let me touch just one more problem that I see in relation to the company law. This is a novelty, welcome news that allows for a choice between a single and two-tier management system, which therefore introduces some systemic inconsistencies into this law. For companies with a two-tier management system, the participation of workers in management is regulated by a specific law. This is a law on the participation of workers in management. In the case of a single system, it seeks to regulate the company law in Articles 288, 289, and 290. If we allow for a choice between a single or two-tier management system, it would be at least possible to expect that, if we are already regulating a single law, this is about a company law, two possibilities of a management system, so that in a specific law we can regulate the possibility of working together in the management of both a single and a two-tier system. This will also be the effort of the Social Democrats, which will result in the already announced amendments to the Economic Society Act in the next steps, as well as some other initiative of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. The law before us today, which we are having a general discussion about, is certainly a fundamental law that provides for the organisation and functioning of companies, and therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we find it primarily unacceptable that there is no Minister of Economy here with us today. At the same time, it seems unacceptable for us to deal with today, I think it is already the ninth change, we could even call it, a small constitution of the economy. When we discussed the eighth amendment under the line h in December, I mentioned that the government would run out of letters to mark changes if it continued at such a pace. I see that the government has taken that into account, and the change that is ahead of us no longer has a letter, but is bearing number one. And that's, I'll say, the government's blue move, because then the numbers are unlimited, and the letters are limited. If I go back to law school. The most common thing that Members and Members mention in their consideration of this law is the enforcement of the so-called European Shareholder Society, which is introduced in the law, which should allow our business entities to benefit from all the advantages that such a company offers, is said to be free to take part in the internal market of the European Union. It should be noted that this arrangement arrived almost a year and a month later, it is said, at the hands. Surely some damage has already occurred in these economic operators. However, the question is also how many such economic operators in the Republic of Slovenia will be able to take advantage of this benefit or right. If I touch on the following news, the company law is somehow aligned with the takeover law. Of course, in certain respects, where you should be, you don't. We have already warned that this must be done in December. As regards the re-regulation of the d.o.o., it is said that the simplification of the stoppage of d.o.o. is a very attractive and interesting matter for the public to withdraw notary certificates and liquidity requirements. But, you know, practice in Slovenia has at least so far shown that they are rare d.o.o.s that function over a certain number of years. In Slovenia, recently or in recent years, there are d.o.o.s that are established on Monday and are in bankruptcy on Friday. This has been a practice so far. To allow this practice to continue until some discipline is introduced in the field of limited liability companies, I think it is a little premature. However, I will be very happy, and I think that not only I, but also all the other Members, if the government representatives who joined us during this debate will eventually take up the time and feel worthy to participate in such a law and answer some of the questions raised in the debate and not least present their views on this law, because no one has done so in the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I'd add only two thoughts to that. As we will adopt a law on the participation of workers in profit sooner or later, as part of the National Assembly, I think it is very weak if the Act on the Functioning of Shareholders leaves the possibility for workers to participate in management. I think co-management of companies or companies by workers is a motivation for better work and for achieving better production and labour results of each company. From this point of view, I think it would be very good to have this issue resolved in some way, so that even smaller companies, up to 500 employees, or employees of such companies, would have the opportunity to have their representative on the board of directors and thus contribute, for the first time, what the idea of how the company should operate, and for the second time, would be directly aware of the results of the operation of a particular company, and in this way they could also inform workers of what needs to be done, that the results would be higher and that their share of the profits could be increased from that title. In the end, this expectation has come to the fore that workers will not have their representatives in companies that will be less than 500 employees, which will be much more than those that are larger in us, and then this possible aspect of motivation in workers may become a blur, which would have a negative impact on the performance of the business and, of course, on the long-term development of the economy. Therefore, I believe that at the time of the adoption of this law one will probably be reached for all acceptable solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u236	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greeting to all present in this hall. First of all, I would like to point out one problem that I was familiar with just yesterday morning, before I went to Ljubljana, and it touches small and medium-sized enterprises that, because of their specificity, are said to be operating in foreign markets, they need a foreign subsidiary, because this allows them to be successful in this foreign market. If I look at this a little differently. In Slovenia, there are many companies which are considered to be medium-sized enterprises under Article 52, paragraph 3, of this Article, but are automatically treated as large companies by the law in accordance with the following paragraph of this Article, on the grounds that a consolidated annual report is required under Article 53 of this Act. If we look at the fourth paragraph of Article 52 of the current company law, companies which are obliged to produce a consolidated annual report under Article 53 of this Act are automatically considered to be large companies. Since in practice this provision causes such companies little difficulty, in particular in applying for public tendering for measures to promote and develop the small economy of medium-sized enterprises, such companies are certainly in an unequal position. I think these companies are really justifiably complaining. Secondly, I would like to point out some things, or some of the provisions of the proposed law, which are more than positive, as they try to prevent some current shortcomings in protecting shareholders and associates. Let me just count them. First time. The transfer of at least 25% of the company’s assets requires a new assembly decision. Another time. A simplified reduction in the share capital intended to transfer the amounts to the capital reserve is not admissible if, due to the merger of shares, it is necessary to exclude the shareholder from the company or to reduce its shareholding in the share capital. Third time. Where shareholders consider that they have been harmed, they may lodge an action and the costs of such proceedings must be borne by the company unless it is later found in the proceedings themselves that they were not justified. Fourth time. There is a threshold for the Assembly meeting to be convened at the request of a minority, from 10 to 20 basic capital. Fifth. The Act on takeovers in the Company Act also transposes revised specific and extraordinary audits and exclusion of minority shareholders from society. Six. The right of minority shareholders to withdraw from society is completely new. It seems to me that all these things are positive in this new law, so I think the marriage is as good as any and I will support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u238	Good evening and thank you for your word, Mr President. In this law there are quite a few things that actually make the situation worse in the Slovenian economy, especially for that part of the Slovenian economy, which is a part of the work force, say employees in companies. Here, in particular, I would like to point out that, in some debilitating desire to please our new friends in the European Union as much as possible, we are going to go so far as to allow Article 441 of this proposal, that the founders or owners of a company registered as a European society can afford only by stating that negotiations with employees have not produced results and that, therefore, it was not possible to conclude agreements with employees, even then they can register the company. This is already sufficient evidence that the purpose of this law was not only to allow European companies to be registered in the Slovenian economic area, but in particular to reduce the rights and opportunities of employees in all companies. I will prove that, for example, a change in the uniform management has been given to all companies in Slovenia, not only those who come as European companies, which means that, in particular, where the co-management of workers is not desirable or the participation of workers in management is not desirable, they will hurry and introduce uniform management, because it is not envisaged that workers will be able to influence whether the company will otherwise be organised as it has been so far, it is said that it will no longer be two-tier but only one-time management. Why do I say that? Because in the current system under the law on the co-management of workers it is possible for employees in companies to have members in the supervisory council and in the administration of society. It is said that it is possible to participate in the exercise and also to participate in supervision, an economic society. While the single management of such a change is as envisaged, it reduces the participation of workers as only one Executive Director is allowed in such a single company. This means that the practical presence or possibility of participation of workers in management is reduced to a minimum. I would also like to say that it is typical of this government that it likes to change laws that are sensitive, so it is also likely in the public eye to see disagreement and discontent if, for example, the government does what is appropriate and what is normal in the legislative process, namely that it simultaneously changes the Law on Economic Companies and the Law on the Co-ordination of Workers in Economic Companies, avoids this hot masonry and goes through the side door. The Company Act also introduces definitions or procedures for co-management of workers in one-managed companies and thus does not create a law that has the character of a system law, the nature of a system law and should therefore ensure that the amendment of this law is properly ensured, not to say, to the current level of co-management of workers in Slovenia, a suitable way of managing these newly organised companies. And let me put it another way, a little evil perhaps, but it is strange that the transitional provisions do not say that this law repeals the law on the co-ordination of workers in companies, because I think it is a practice that has begun and I am surprised that this law has not continued. I would also like to say that, in the reform package, the members of the reform group have also stated that there is also a provision for the adoption of a law on the participation of employees in companies' profits. Here remains the text in this law, by the fact that there is neither the spirit nor the hearing about the law on the participation of employees in profit. In this law, there remains a debate as to how workers can participate in the division of profits, similar to in the previous text, in that one of the arguments that one of the arguments was that the law that we have put into the legislative procedure is not appropriate, including that it has been resolved in the economic society law and will be better resolved in the wake of changes in the law. There's no better solution. It is resolved that nothing has been resolved, only for those companies where the owner or co-owners are willing to admit that without employees, without employees in companies whose owners they are, they would not have done a tolar of profits, let alone have anything to share, to land and to take the initiative and allow workers to participate in the share of profits. Not that they can become labour shareholders. I believe that in all these items, in articles that have already already been discussed by my colleagues before, not only from the parliamentary group, but also other fellow Members have specifically stressed that the reason why this law should wait, for the first time, for it to be deleted is to determine who are talking about co-ordination of workers. Secondly, to delete the provisions derogating from the right of workers to agree with the procedure, how the company will be established and registered, we are talking about a European society, and thirdly to introduce a provision concerning the co-ordination of workers in the amendments to the Labour Co-ordination Act and that this law comes into the legislative procedure at the same time as the proposed company law. This is decent, this is moral and this is also appropriate to our level of social development that we have in Slovenia. We are comparable to the developed countries of the European Union, we are comparable to the countries of the 12 countries listed by colleague Majda Potrat, and I think it is a shame to take steps back instead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues! Why none of us here want to say the point, I don't know. I'll try it myself. It is a constitutional right for workers to have the right to co-operate in essence in systemic law. This proposal today, however, amends the system law on co-ordination in Articles 288, 289, and 230. If and if the Regulation on a European Shareholder company bearing the SE2157/2001EC code is the main reason for the reform of the Company Act, but is not already essentially the basis for the arrangements for co-management in it, also under the European Directive bearing the 2001/86EC mark, we can say that at least this law is in conflict with these two matters that I have now listed. But it is also unconstitutional and incorrect to accept it. When we talk about having as many as seven areas governed by the law, and it is indeed a necessity, because this is what Europe requires, a European stock company will be redefined in it, then the provisions on the euro, then the provisions of the takeover law, then the re-regulation for independent entrepreneurs. I have said before that this is in fact a positive thing, a re-regulation of d.o.o. or limited liability companies, a single system of which today was a lot of talk, and other provisions. I would only touch once again on the reorganisation of companies with limited liability. See, these limited liability companies are simplified in this actual legal order in such a way as to simplify the establishment of d.o.o.s., it is said that liquidity requirements are eliminated at the time of establishment and the minimum amount of basic capital is reduced to EUR 7,500. This means that respected colleagues and colleagues will grow up again as mushrooms in the rain, and that means that these companies will be even more stocked than they are today. What's going on in these companies with the workers, and we know that. Businesses are closed overnight, disabled persons, old people and single mothers are left at the institution, a person who has five such companies in stock, a quiet soul carries out its activities in other companies, and the state pays her when new workers are employed in the same company that is registered for the stock, for a few more million for the new employee. Harder people, however, give in to the mercy and unkindness of society. And that's what you quiet souls wrote in this document. Now I have a little more joy and willingness to talk because the government representatives are here. This is actually a downsizing of the social level, and in this way, respected colleagues and colleagues, we will not achieve social peace. You're not even going to be a credible partner to the social partners in the country. Tomorrow, there will be even more demonstrations than announced on November 26th, if this is established in such a form. It is easy to exclude the right to co-management of employees in the company, and even more savage labour legislation is being put in place at the second door, as has already been the case with our acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u241	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The law we have before us is extensive and comprehensive, and I think it is also good and we need it in the Slovenian economy. The government has also stated in the Coalition Treaty that it will strive to increase the development potential of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. A part of this law certainly does. I come from the economy on my own. I have had the opportunity to work with many entrepreneurs for many years, both small and slightly larger. So I had the opportunity to learn about their expectations, their needs, and what legal provisions should be made in Slovenia in order for these companies to develop and operate successfully. With this law, I realize that much of this is certainly built in now. If we touch primarily, say, the possibility of simplification in setting up s.p.'s. Here the matter is quite simple and also the transition, when an entrepreneur grows into a larger society over the years, is greatly simplified. I also find it extremely important that a built-in security guard prevents the abuse of creditors, since despite the establishment of a new company with all its assets, the entrepreneur will still respond to the payment of the creditors. Important innovations, as we know, are also in the business of shareholders. There is certainly a new stock or new form of shares that will simplify the takeover of the euro, where we can easily convert the company's core capital into shares that will then be in euro. As far as single or dual management is concerned. It is true that every way has advantages and, let's say, weaknesses, but I do not see in single management the dangers that are here to be seen from the debate. The employees themselves have the opportunity to do so, I think that in Article 283 the law allows for a representative of the types of workers to be present on the board of directors. This law also provides sufficient economic protection for small shareholders who have been left in the past to the main shareholders and are now allowed to invoke the audit themselves, to exchange it with others if necessary, if they do not trust them. Last but not least, if they are tried to be paid or expelled from a share society, they will be paid justly. Slovenia has been a member of the European Union for a year and a few more, and we will also take over the euro, and on this basis we will now have a European shareholder company, and we will have the possibility to directly include the euro in the procedure for the adoption of new statutes after this law. Surely this law is an important part of us being able to simplify matters. I believe that we will be able to complement those shortcomings which will prove necessary through the discussions in the following discussions. In general, I consider this law to be good and will also support it for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u243	Mr. Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! I welcome most of the news brought by the novelties of this law. I even think that we should take care of the procedure as quickly as possible and accept these changes. There is likely to be another need to be added or regulated in other laws, particularly regarding the efficiency of business in the public sector, banking and other so-called industries. I think that the Law on Economic Companies and Unfortunate Privatisation has been the main pillar of the development of Slovenia in the last 15 years, and I think it would be necessary to adopt certain changes in this law much earlier. What do I think of the unfortunate privatisation system? In a way, we have set up a whole range of companies by force, of course by distributing certificates, then we have also established a state-owned owner of these shares companies - the SOD, or the para-national company, and, of course, imposed a management method on companies. We have, of course, set up a series of unnecessary and ineffective supervisory boards that have virtually not controlled the business, but served the daily policy. The fact is that compulsory participation in larger companies was also a member of workers, and in this way, if we add state works, the state capital of the para-national funds was possible for the company's management in cooperation with the workers, of course we can imagine the power they have in the supervisory boards, under threat of a job or similar if they are against the director. With a few percent of the capital, you could practically manage the company in such a combination. Here, of course, this role has emerged and this country's involvement in the management of companies that we cannot and will probably not get rid of for much longer. The country is always and will be a bad host, so we should leave our role as soon as possible and leave the functioning of the capital market, which itself has characteristics to develop, to increase profits and to fertilise. I think that this is the possibility that this law gives that most of these companies will also accept and get rid of some unusual and forced forms of governance. I very much welcome the unitary system. The fact is that, in my opinion, what I said was, of course, the privatisation process was probably, the proposal would have been smarter if we had kept the assets and then sold the assets gradually on the market, that this caused and unfortunate dictatorship in the ZDG, of course, prevented faster economic growth in Slovenia, the loss of many jobs needlessly, so I think it is high time that we made some changes and actually influence the fact that the country will actually get out of business management and impact on business management and will thus ensure faster economic growth. It's just that in the economy, you can't make the specific and different recipes that you want, and always, it's always bad. Therefore, let us leave ourselves to the one who has the capital to dispose of it, and he will make sure that the investments are correct and, of course, we will enable faster economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u245	Mr. Cyril Testen has the floor. No, no, no. He's quitting. Mr. Lucky Hwauc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. Well-welcome colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government, who unfortunately have not yet been given the opportunity to explain some things. Perhaps certain questions can be answered or answered in some way. The law, as has been said many times, brings some significant news. One of these is certainly this European shareholder society, of course I strongly support this decision, for at least two reasons. One is that this is, in some ways, our already delayed obligation, which should have been fulfilled already last year, and the other is that such an arrangement actually provides better opportunities for our economy to operate and break into the European market. This European equity company is also bringing about a new arrangement, and this is this one-stop-shop system, which has been a lot of talk here. I would stress in particular that this arrangement is not mandatory for owners, founders, to decide for themselves what is better for them. It is certain that each of these two arrangements has one or two distinct advantages and certain weaknesses. Surely, the good side of this law is that it does not provide a compulsory form or system, but rather leaves it to the one who, by setting up a society, expresses some interest. And I think that's actually the right thing to do. Crazy regulation, it is said, this single system also brings about changes or certain issues in the field of cooperation of workers in business management. We have heard a number of concerns, including some alarming statements, that this law repeals the law on the participation of workers in the management of businesses, suspending labour co-management, preventing co-management, etc. Maybe I wouldn't be so worried here, 'cause I don't think it's as easy as that. As far as the two-tier system is concerned, nothing changes. The co-ordination will take place on three levels. The first level is the saints of workers, the second level is the participation of workers in the management body - in the management board of the company as a member of the administration, as a working director - and the third level is the participation of representatives of employees in the supervisory boards. There's absolutely nothing going on here. But there is a new situation, because in the single system we somehow combine these two functions of control and management with the board of directors. It is true that this existing cooperation law does not provide for this because, at the time of its creation, we have not yet had such arrangements because we are barely discussing it. But to claim that this law prevents co-administration in a single system, I would say that this is simply not true. In fact, the law does not interfere with co-management in a single system and also allows for the implementation of a directive governing this area at European level, and we simply cannot avoid it. If we are members of the European Union, we are also subject to certain rules. But it's in the law, and I think it's a good thing, at least a minimum, if we look at Article 288, paragraph two. This suggests that, in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the participation of workers, workers appoint their representative to the Management Board. This is exactly the same arrangement as in the two-tier system - workers appoint their representative where it is managed, and this is in the single system of the board of directors. As for the supervision of the following Article 289, it is said that workers, irrespective of this paragraph, may appoint their representative to the board of the Management Board and so on. Thus, in areas where supervision is carried out, workers also appoint their representatives. So in a fundamentally different way, I simply cannot imagine this cooperation. However, I am convinced that this matter will be definitively and in detail regulated in a specific law, as provided for in the Directive. In the debate, I was also disturbed by the fact that we are establishing or allowing a single system to further increase political staffing. I just don't know how. The members of the Management Board shall be decided by the owners, the assembly and shall be treated equally as a two-tier system or as a single system. Nothing's gonna change. It is true, however, that, as in the two-track system, where the owner of the State is partial, majority or hundred percent, the State will have a certain impact on these human resources decisions. But this influence is today, it will be tomorrow, it was yesterday, it was also with the previous government and it will remain. It's up to the owners. It is also true that we have written down in our programme that the country will gradually withdraw from the economy. And in this process, the country will increasingly have less and less influence, and if you want, also politics. So I don't see these problems here. That's why I'm going to support this marriage, which I think is absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u248	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm not gonna talk about things I've said again. I expect, as I have said on behalf of the Group of Members, that writers, the drafters of the law will listen to some ideas arising from the European regime or from the regulation of countries within the European Union. However, I would like to draw attention to something that, in my opinion, the authors of the law have overlooked or have not been careful enough, but it is very important when many of you are also talking to small shareholders, and you have talked in particular about protection. However, there is also Article 384, the first paragraph, which speaks of the printing of these small shareholders from society under certain conditions, but according to the situation in Slovenia, when some individuals, due to their own skills and the ignorance of small shareholders in a number of companies, may have led a business policy to the detriment of these small shareholders, which is why today, of course, proceedings and lawsuits are pending before the courts. Even in these cases, of course, the legal mills grind as slowly as in any other case. I can confirm with certainty and a few examples can be found that in companies where the majority owner is already above 90% and does not reach the current legal threshold that allows him to print, this is 95% of the ownership, there are shareholder disputes based on infringements of the majority owner in the law in force. As we have seen in the past with damage to social property, after the new ZGD, if this solution is to be done, of course, the majority owners of this action will abuse it if no guardian is to be married and, of course, damage the private property now held by small shareholders. Therefore, there is, of course, a proposal and, if you do not propose a different solution, an amendment in Article 699, where you have other harmonisations in order to make a substantive addition to one of those indents, I think that eight or nine of them are, to this extent, if, on the date of the entry into force of this new CFD, proceedings against a share company in a court in which shareholders enforce the nullity of the decisions of the Assembly under Article 359 or the annulment of the decisions of the Assembly of Shareholders under Article 364, the first paragraph of this Article do not apply until the proceedings before a court are concluded there. Because these large shareholders could take advantage of this for their own good - this first paragraph of Article 384. In the end, one general, as has been said before today. The capital itself is paid off only to the bank and the stock exchange, to the companies, but in the company it is paid off with creativity and work by employees and especially employees, so of course it is necessary to seek soundness, some balance between capital and work, and I do not agree with the discussions or the direction that it is the capital that will draw this society forward without, of course, following the creativity and work of people back then.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Stane Pike has the floor. You're giving up? I'm asking representatives of the government - do you want a word? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to apologize to the minister or representatives of the proposer that we have missed the opportunity to present the law. For today you have been extremely effective, more effective than you planned, and we have adapted our obligations to your plan. And since that happened before, unfortunately we missed this opportunity for an introduction, and it certainly wasn't because the proponents would underestimate the importance of the topic or the work of this national assembly. I will briefly try to touch all the areas that have been exposed here today as problematic. At first, we have heard that this law is nothing new and that all of this has already been prepared by the previous government and that there is virtually no news here. This law contains seven sets. Of these seven sets, virtually all new, except for the European Shareholders' single management system, which means that this particular area, which has been the most focused here today, has already been somehow regulated or proposed in the GDD novel, the novel H. And it is interesting that this GDD novel H, which the new government then withdrew in this part, in this part of the European Shareholder Society and in the Single Management System at that time, actually envisaged working co-ordination, particularly in these conditions of the Single System in the Audit Commission. The proposal you have on the table today differs from the fact that this proposal foresees the participation of workers in all commissions, not only in the audit committee. As regards the single management system, it should be pointed out that this law provides only an alternative, a choice between a single and a two-tier management system. The practical choice is left to the company or owners of the company, who must opt for an alternative and also regulate it in the statutes in relation to the company's acts. In this way, the dogma has in fact fallen that the legislator already has to cohesively define and choose a management system for economic societies, and I think it is a good thing that this is a step forward. With the support of the economic and professional public, the proposed law has somehow decided to offer a single management system to domestic shareholders, as the implementation of the European Directive has to regulate the functioning of a European shareholder company, and this option has also been offered to domestic shareholders. So, he's just expanded the options already in place. The advantages of a single management system, which is also the dominant system in the world, are in particular a closer link between supervisory and management work, leading to greater cooperation between them, greater and more active transmission of information and, consequently, a better part of the body. In view of this proposal, the law also gives domestic shareholders the option of choosing between a single and two-tier management system. Thus, the shareholders themselves and not the legislator in the company's statutes choose how to manage. I would now also like to respond to comments concerning the regulation of labour co-ordination. See, regardless of the provisions of the law on the participation of workers in management governed by this law, labour co-decision is governed by a two-tier management system, and regardless of the law on the participation of workers in the management of a European shareholder society, which is now in inter-sector coordination and will also be proposed for adoption by the National Assembly, the Act on Economic Companies provides for a legal void for co-decision of workers in the management of the Single System of the Law on Economic Companies. The proposed company law does not affect or alter in any way the working co-decision in a two-tier management system governed by the law on the participation of workers in management, but merely regulates working co-decision in a single system which does not have any other legal basis. The proposer proposed an innovative regime governing co-decision between workers in a single management system within the Management Board and the committees of this Management Board. Thus, the representatives of the workers will be included in all the committees of the Management Board and not in the same way as the proposal prepared in the previous mandate only in the audit committee. While the Commissions cannot change decisions that are within the competence of the Management Board, they can offer a very high-quality, comparable and even more active alternative to the exercise of their rights within their respective tasks, which cover a wide range of supervisory functions. In fact, it is in no way different from legal rights in the Labour Management Act. I would also like to answer the question of the comment that was made at the establishment of the d.o.o. on the form. See, virtually already the novel by ZGD K predicted or contained, deleted the notary record in one-person companies. It is difficult to talk here about abuses, because the forms that will be prescribed by the Minister will still have to be signed, but it will not be in the form of a notary record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u251	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters have been given the floor. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. You have the floor, Dr. Laharnik. [[Five minutes.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I must say, I am disappointed at the words of the Secretary of State, but I am not surprised. Last but not least, the transfer was at the level of the Mercator case, and that's for sure. The law that was at this Parliament's table in December 2004 is essentially the same as what we now have on the table. This is also the opinion of legal experts if you ask them. You can ask Professor Kocbek and see what he tells you. Second thing. When the government withdrew this law from the procedure last year, December 2004, or the coalition of that year, I expected that at least in the field of labour participation they would find more courageous solutions. I must say that I agree, as I have said before, that in further consideration of the law it is possible to find better solutions. Eleven months, almost twelve months was the time, December 3rd, somewhere in early December will be one year and there are no new solutions in this area. So I think what's been said here is insulting to this national council. If anyone thinks that the question of reorganisation of company status has not been addressed in that December version, take it into his own hands. If anyone thinks that there was no talk of a new type of stock, the so-called Kosovo shares, let him take the December version into his hands. To come to this National Assembly and so mislead, not only us opposition Members, but also your colleagues in the coalition, I find it unacceptable and unworthy of this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. I am very reluctant to repeat for the Members of the Liberal Democracy, but I would like to begin my part of the additional debate with the same one as my colleague Lahovnik before me. I, too, cannot express any enthusiasm for the way in which the answer is being answered and the content of the reply. I must point out that the content of the reply would be very difficult to label as content at all, given that it was not answered to any of the more important elements that were exposed during the debate. In her defense or explanation of the law, which is supposed to cover two sets, for the first time, an apology for the delay and presentation of the law to the National Assembly, and for the second time, the answer to some open questions, or better said, to many open questions, was simply summarized by the Saturday Diary of 15 October 2005, with the same answer, seven sets of amendments to the ZGD-1. Well, I don't think there were any answers. I do not intend to refer them again, but I would like, given that you have not applied for time, and since you probably do not intend to respond now, at least this is parliamentary practice in the National Assembly, that you, as a representative of the executive branch of power, who is now obviously in charge of presenting or defending this force of martial law in the National Assembly, respond in writing to the dilemmas raised by the Slovenian National Party, in particular the dilemmas reflected in the public financial acts, that is, in the budget - for the first time. And a second time. In particular, the government's position, if you have these powers, and I believe that you have them within the Ministry of the Economy, if you are already sent to such important matters as the defence of the statutory law of your department, we will also be given an answer to the correction of the anomalies that occur when companies are simultaneously able to establish or register on the basis of two laws. I've talked about this before. I hope so, and I sincerely hope you didn't answer because you forgot, and not because you didn't want to give an answer. Thank you. And, speaking of which, allow me just one more disagreement to point out, with the reply given by the government's representative. At least as I read the law and if presented to us, the law represents a shift from work rights. We must be aware that this law is subject to capital and in no way is subject to rights or written in the direction of increasing labour rights. It's not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! What we heard today by government representatives was first of all an excuse that we are working faster in the National Assembly than was planned. However, I would like to say that, of course, the government should be monitoring either on the third channel or on the Internet, how we work in the National Assembly, and the main reason that we have moved faster is that the ruling coalition has decided that it will not be able to spend the time of the previous points. But of course, that's not essential. What is essential is what we see in this law, the government's attitude towards the National Assembly. We got the law. This law, as you know, has over 700 articles, 708 articles. However, if we look at the explanation of this law, the whole marriage is justified on 15 pages or, if you want, on one of the books. Only the recommendations or the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce are almost longer than the explanation of the law itself. I have two questions for the government. First question: Why does the government no longer think that the previous opinion of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Agency for the Market in Securities on accounting standards is necessary? It is simply one of the basic points of view that it is probably good before you write anything in the legislation or when accounting standards change to obtain in some debate the opinion of those who in some way design or can propose what is right. And another is a question that has not been said about, but today we are considering the law in the first reading and I have a feeling that we are today on 2 January 2007. Why on January 2, 2007? Since the law provided for all elements, including transitional criminal decisions, that Slovenia no longer has a constitutional provision, that the Bank of Slovenia Act no longer applies, but that Slovenia has formally taken over its euro legislation. I think that these two provisions in the law, together with a number of inappropriate solutions that we have adopted in the course of yesterday's debate, especially in the law on corporate income tax, where I would expect the government representatives to say in this, here I think the representatives of the Ministry of the Economy could participate more properly or have a more correct impact on certain decisions of the Ministry of Finance, gives me the feeling that this government simply said in December 2004 that we will try to write a better ZDG, then they have failed, the ZGD, which is before us, is practically the same as it was written in the previous government, and this government with this Prime Minister says that this law is even an integral part of the so-called reform measures. I don't know what to say anymore, I just feel that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as represented here by representatives who have only come to us after they have been delayed in the beginning, simply don't respect the National Assembly. And the National Assembly, which, at today's general hearing, is supposed to give appropriate guidance to the government, will, of course, have to require a great deal of supplementation from the government, and the government will complete this law thoroughly before further consideration, in particular in the sense that it will reflect the philosophy that this government, of course, represents, if this philosophy can be clearly seen at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. He's given up, you're canceling. I give my word to Mr. Dusan Kumer. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I would like to remind the distinguished Madam Secretary of State of one thing nevertheless. I have not noticed that no one has made a problem with this: single or double, because it is a European recommendation and a European practice that has long been and has proved to be good. The point - I will now talk about what I have been saying - was that this same European recommendation, which was adopted jointly by Regulation 2157, also recommends that part of the labour co-ordination or participation of employees in the boards of directors be defined as a single system. This proposed law, which you have proposed, which was made by whoever has done it, I am not so interested in, despite this recommendation and the practice that is in these most developed countries, and this proposal by the ZGD of non-excellent, external, independent directors does not regulate at all. It gives as an opportunity and it regulates the statute and the shareholders decide on it. However, since this is a specific Slovenian practice and I have stressed that this is more than 55%, which is still state property, this is not, of course, comparable to other countries of the European Union, where this has been working and functioning for many years. And here it is, here was our observation that, in law, not by code, but by law, we should legislate the partnership.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u259	Thank you very much. This leaves the list of debaters exhausted and concludes the debate. You didn't sign up for the debate. I can't give you my word. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the context of the half-hour vote. That's 6:00. 25 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which will be resumed at 18 hours and 25 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. In this case, a vote may be taken. At the same time, I'd like to ask for some peace of mind. After checking your voting device, I think we can move on to a decision. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the tax procedure law, an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the amendment to Article 93. You've got the amendment, you've got the bench, you've got the coalition party of the National Assembly. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. The vote is closed. Of the 62 Members and Members present, 56 voted in favour. No one voted against it. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I conclude this second reading and move on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 93 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. Please. No, no, no. I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. The vote is closed. Of the 70 Members and Members present, 54 voted against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. On the bench you got a new text EPA 511-IV, a review of all the amendments that have been tabled. We'll make a separate decision on each amendment. We are moving to a decision on the amendment to Article 6 under number one. We're voting. The presence of 70 Members and Members, 19 votes against 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment to the 6th Article of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted 29 to 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the third amendment to Article 6. Please, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u261	Thank you very much. In my name, I explain my voice. This is the amendment that was tabled and corrected the error that occurred in the adoption of the law in 2004, when we first adopted this solution on the working body, and later in the plenary session we re-examined this solution from the law, an amendment is now proposed to remedy this deficit in respect of working persons with disabilities, or to pay income for the amount of pension benefits. During the meeting alone, government representatives or government representatives informed me that they had issued instructions this year and that the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance had begun to account for the payment of the income, which could eliminate the inconvenience or the inconvenience that, at the end, when the income is calculated, the taxpayers would receive a large sum. However, it certainly does not eliminate the inequalities of persons with disabilities in this law and I propose that we support this amendment. Once again, I would like to point out that this amendment was supported by the current Members and Members of the ruling coalition at that time, so I propose that, like at the working body at that time, we vote today at a meeting of the National Assembly and this indent, as envisaged by the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, should actually be included in Article 20.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u262	Thank you very much. We're voting. 71 present. I note that 30 Members and Members voted against 38. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the fourth amendment to Article 6, which is proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. 70 present. 29 to 40. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the fourth amendment to Article 6 has not been adopted. We are voting on the fifth amendment to Article 6, and the drafter is the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u263	Thank you. Once again, I would like to point out that it is really pointless to tax a recreational allowance. Finally, it is also some modest means that can then be implemented with some important measure, which then also means significantly less financial burden, because if we live healthy, we are also significantly less present in health institutions. And the effect of non-taxation of the recreational supplement would certainly have a more favourable financial impact than if we taxed that supplement. Of course, I suggest that this amendment be supported. As I say, there are no negative financial consequences, but positive consequences, and it is therefore worth supporting.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u264	Thank you very much. We vote on the fifth amendment to Article 6. We're voting. 68 present. 25 Members and Members voted against 37. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the sixth amendment to Article 6. In fact, these are the three proposals made by three groups with the same content, namely the Liberal Democracy Group, the Democratic Party of Retired Persons and the Social Democrats. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u265	Thank you very much. I would like to explain the vote of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy on this amendment. We'll support this amendment, that's actually an amendment, if you want, maybe some new positions. It must be said, however, that it would be correct for Members and Members of the ruling coalition to support the Liberal Democracy in this amendment, because our amendment is broader than what you are proposing in the next amendment. It would make sense for the amendment under 6 to be supported and then the amendment under 7 to become irrelevant. Thank you very much. If you support this, you will indeed be in favour of reaffirming by voting what you have done with the signing of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u267	Dear Mr. Vice President! In fact, I would like to raise more than a word the question given that you said we were talking about three amendments with the same content. During today's debate, which took place for a long time around three amendments, the authors of one of the amendments strongly advocated that it was a different amendment, and now I really don't even know what the text I am reading, but it seems to me that it is an identical amendment. I share my opinion with you, but those who come from four government parties, at least in the debate, advocated that their amendment was a different amendment, a substantive amendment. And also around the procedure, as long as the amendment under order number one is adopted, you said they would remain irrelevant. This confirms the thesis that there are substantively identical amendments, but denies the words, I think a colleague of Sok, who spoke of the diversity of amendments. And I'm wondering mirroring that if the amendment is not adopted, then you probably won't put the other amendments to the vote. Isn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u268	I would like to say that this is actually the amendment of the three candidates. I would also like to remind you that when we now decide on this amendment, that if this amendment is adopted, then the amendment under point 7 becomes irrelevant if this amendment is adopted. This amendment is far more distant from point 7 and we are therefore voting on it first. We're voting. 70 present. 34 members voted against 34. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are voting on the amendment under Article 7(6) of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u269	We will support the amendment under number seven, even though the ruling coalition did not support the amendment under number six, which was broader. You obviously don't understand that "representative and other" is a narrower term than "all disabled organisations." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u271	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment because it is substantially different from the one we voted on earlier. In fact, under it are signed SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, and this is an essential difference, so I think it is essential that we support this amendment because of the substantive difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u272	Mr. Master Žnidarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u273	Thank you very much. So we will, of course, support this amendment, but it must be said that it is substantively different from the first one, which, of course, some have not noticed, not only because of the signatories but also because of the last three words. And of course it doesn't matter. Of course, the first three who failed are included in the material part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u274	Thank you very much. We're voting. 70 present. 69 Members voted against no one. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the eighth amendment to Article 6 of the Act. The drafter shall be the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. 70 present. 28 votes against 40 Members and Members of Parliament. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to section 12 of the law, namely, we have two amendments. First, we decide on the first amendment to Article 12. The drafter shall be the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. 72 present. 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the second amendment to Article 12. He is a member of the Liberal Democracy Club. We're voting. 71 present. 28 Members voted against 42. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 13. At Article 13, we have only one amendment, namely the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. 70 present. Result of the vote: 27 for, versus 42. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 16, with coalition parties to the National Assembly. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u275	We support this amendment, not because it was proposed by the coalition parties, but because it was the amendment of some opposition parties to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and then we simply combined both substantively. However, this amendment makes it possible and makes it an equal position for conciliators in the private sector and in tourist farms. As finance minister, he knows old moms in Portorož or old moms on the farm will be in the same position as they are in the broadcast of rooms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u276	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 68 present. For 63, against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 24, proposing coalition parties. We're voting. 66 present. 66 Members voted against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 25, and the candidate is the Liberal Democracy Club. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! The amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament - and I will give an explanation to the vote on behalf of the parliamentary club - is, in some way, a kind of lactose paper. The decision on this amendment is the lacquer paper, which the ruling coalition in this National Assembly advocates. If you support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, then you are in favour of respecting equality before the law in Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to introduce a significant distinction between Slovenian citizens in the amendments to the Income Act. On the one hand, by an article we have already adopted, she has re-taxed all Slovenian savers with a 20% interest rate, without the first 300,000 tolar interest being exempt. This means that, unlike Germany, Belgium and some other European countries in Slovenia, each pays 5 tolar interest per country. On the other hand, this same government - and the ruling coalition will confirm this today by voting on this amendment - proposes to the National Assembly that we exempt up to 70 billion interest payments to recipients of denationalisation interest. This simply means that one part of the citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, and this is the richest part of the citizens, is exempt from payment of the interest tax. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided by law on income to take 20 billion per year on one side and give a lot to the other. We will, of course, support the amendment. If the parties to the ruling coalition and the National Assembly are unable to find enough strength to support our amendment, then we will be in an unconstitutional position. We have and will have two types of citizens: citizens who pay 20% on their savings and citizens who pay nothing on the funds they have acquired and for whom they receive high interest. In the Liberal Democracy, we will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u278	We're voting. 66 present. 30 Members and Members voted against 32. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the second amendment to Article 25. The drafter shall be the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u279	Thank you for your word. I would like to remind my colleagues that a supplement was adopted yesterday in the Tax Law on the Income of Legal Persons, which relieved the investment funds of those liabilities which the Government wanted to tax, so this is a non-standardised asset. The budget deficit will certainly be present as a result of this measure. If the explanation for the tax package was that the consequences were balanced, taken somewhere, added somewhere, of course, I have not yet found a measure to replace the source that we said yesterday, would be reduced or no longer envisaged at such an amount to implement these tax laws. One appropriate measure is not to exempt the payment of income tax on interest for all those who have bonds received under the Denationalisation Act. The consequences for these beneficiaries, of course, will not be great, as the state still guarantees that they maintain their value. These bonds have a higher interest rate than everyone else. So, if there's a chance at this point, of course, it's an opportunity to replace that exit that was applied yesterday. Of course, it would be more appropriate for other laws to be more ambitious, especially in the law on taxation on paid wages, to reduce this tax more quickly if they did not think about the artificial creation of certain benefits for the denationalisation law, which is already so uncontrollable for Slovenia. Accepting this amendment will mitigate these consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pechanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment, and this is because of the reasons that I could not explain earlier because of the lack of time, especially within a group of denationalising beneficiaries, there is actually some kind of inequality. Here you propose an exemption or reduction of the obligation to pay income from interest on compensation bonds, which we know are more than twice as high as the interest on long-term tied deposits on the bank. If we sum up how much the denationalisation beneficiary who has received the property in nature, when it comes to real estate, means that, with compensation for the use of the building land and the tax on the property of the citizens he has to pay, he pays more from his property than he would have paid if he paid the interest on the bonds. That's one problem. The second problem is to explain that the denationalisation beneficiary was forced to take the bonds, is a questionable claim because the natural person who also binds the money to the bank is forced to tie the money to the bank, otherwise this money loses value, and it is not true that it is a free choice. For this reason, I believe that this amendment, which is also, I must admit, is clearer than the LDS's amendment to support that we will not cause inequalities before the law, which may also be the subject of a constitutional judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u283	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group. We will support this amendment. It seems simple to us that this law, which the government has proposed, does not take into account the fact. Let's all be honest here to realize that some denationalising beneficiary who is returned to him for a billion dollars in bonds can sell these bonds at the Ljubljana Stock Exchange at the same time, and because the quotation of these 107 bonds, he gets even more in cash than the state has recognised, a billion 70 million dollars, the first fact. Second fact. When we talk about taxation of these bonds or interest on these bonds, it's future returns, no one's talking about taxing the property that's coming back, talking about future returns. Next thing you know, it's got to be stressed. If the same logic were applied to assets returned in nature, this would mean that the houses leased and received by denationalising beneficiaries are exempt from the tax, even though all other citizens pay the rent. If the same logic were applied to the return of land in nature, it would mean that someone who, in the process of denationalisation, gets 100 hectares returned to be exempt, for example, from the tax on cadastral income. Some other farmer who has obtained it, such as by inheriting it or whatever else, pays that tax! In short, it's the inequality of citizens before the law. It is a fact that it is likely that even the Constitution is being violated in this case. Let's all think about it together! Let us consider the fact that the holders of denationalisation bonds are, in one way or another, entitled to over-average returns. The interest rate is 6% on denationalisation bonds, although on average the interest rate is 3%. That's twice the interest rate! In addition, they will be exempt from interest. This is definitely the inequality of all citizens. And if young families who save for housing and save on the stock exchange, in bonds, on banks, have to pay interest, I ask you why the denationalisation beneficiaries are exempt. It's not a cultural struggle, it's not an ideological difference here, it's not a question of a denationalisation law - it's a fundamental justice in society! And here I say don't do this, don't make this difference in society! That is why, of course, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will also support this amendment because we want to be consistent and believe that it is right to ensure the equality of all citizens before the law. That's all this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u285	Thank you very much. As we have already said, we will not support this in Novi Slovenija. Neither do we accept this explanation and cannot understand it as such, for we compare cadastral income or 100 hectares of land with this, with bonds, of course, is not possible. It is simply necessary to say that if a person has received a returned land in nature, he does not pay the cadastral income because he has received so many hectares and so many hectares, but he pays the cadastral income because he produces such an agricultural culture on these hectares. Therefore, the cadastral income is also accounted for very differently in terms of production itself. Of course, I'm sorry that Mr. Lakhovnik doesn't know that. The lowest cadastral income in grassland and the highest in agricultural land on which other crops grow. Once again, denationalisation is an essential consequence of nationalisation and that all those who could not get back in nature will not be able to get back to their property, which could mean any added value, until 65 years later. For 50 years they were taken away, after 50 years they were returned to some, they received bonds that would only pay the principal in 15 years. In this law we have laid down that half of the funds obtained from these bonds are taxed and are not fully forgiven, as you have been doing here all day. That's just not true. I could read the law, but I think you all understand and actually repeat today I don't know which one and the same, but I can't say that as a lie or a lie. We will not support this amendment in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u286	Dr. Bottler, please. Do you want to speak for yourself before you spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[...]] Then I ask you to explain your voice on your behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Dear Members! In my name, I want to explain why I will support this amendment. Simply because this is about the flow, this is not about taxing the property that's coming back. If this were the case, the bonds already received by the denationalising holder would be taxed. That's not what this is about. Here the return on this property is taxed, a future return that will be received for the next 15 years. This is as if we were exempting income from tax returns as if we were exempting rents from taxation. That would make no sense. That would be contrary to common sense. And that's why I'm saying that, in this case, it's against the common sense of a farmer. It is fundamental justice for future benefits or in 2006, 2007 and 2008 all citizens will be equally taxed as regards interest. Remember, in 2008, let's say a young family who will be saving for the apartment will pay 20% of the tax on each saved tolar. Here, we allow ourselves to be exempt from such taxation by denationalising beneficiaries, by someone who holds these owners and has twice the interest rate of that young family. That is why I say that this is pointless, so I publicly claim that this is unfair and that this is actually insane and therefore I cannot support it and therefore I will support an amendment that actually puts all citizens and citizens in the same position. It's about the flow, it's about future returns, not the state of the property returns. And I ask that this be taken into account, and we must also be aware of this when voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u289	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment mainly because it sets a limit. I believe in the well-intentioned solution of the ruling coalition, but this solution actually continues to be a new injustice, creating new injustice, injustice for those people and tribes who, in fact, with everything that has happened, have nothing. They're gonna pay for everything someone's supposed to owe. And of course such salvation then causes the matter to burn there into the future, not from generation to generation the spirit seeks the way, but from generation to generation we make new injustices. The amendment would eliminate it, eventually cut off some nebulosis that continues to occur, but of course also misunderstanding. This misunderstanding, however, must not be a reason to support such a solution, despite all decency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support the amendment, so I'm going to tell you a case I know. The denationalisation beneficiary did not get 3,000 square metres of land back, he received bonds. This land was sold to Petrol, 3,000 square feet for 40 million. Now, please tell me nicely. He can live 100, 200, 300 years, but he will never get what was due to this denationalisation. Now tell me whether this is fair or not what you are actually explaining about injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u293	Thank you very much. I say again that I will not support it, and I find it difficult to understand, I have previously listened to Dr. Lahovnik, that the interest on bonds is the same as KD from agricultural land. I told him it wasn't the same. Now he's changed his mind and he says it's the same thing, but if we let the rent on the farm land go free. Now you just have to decide what the KD is and what the rent is for the agricultural land. Of course, these are two different matters. And in the end, I'll say something else. What has now been adopted in law, such as the proposal for a law, has, of course, been adopted by the Committee on the basis of the LDS proposal. I don't know why you and the amendment would try to delete this now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I will try to explain to the Members of the ruling coalition why it would be good for them to support this. Look, I'm explaining my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u296	Mr. Squeakle, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u297	I explain my voice. We all agree that denationalisation was a natural disaster. Article 20 of the Act states that those who receive money from denationalisation and from natural disasters do not pay income. And that's what happened to your proposal. By your suggestion, those who have received money from natural disasters, for example, if you want to, Posačje and some of this money loaded and obtained interest, they pay 20% of the tax for these interest. However, those who receive the denationalisation of the returned assets in the form of bonds should be exempt from this. It's an inequality before the law. We all agree that the State is returning what was once taken from a natural disaster, either from God or from a previous authority or from a natural trap. And that's why, of course, in nature, you get the money and you don't pay the income and you didn't pay the income for denationalisation. Do not pay interest tax when a million and a half Slovenian savers will from now on pay interest tax, but inequality is before the law and means that you bow up to some who, of course, command you. And that's a great grief. Of course, it will be necessary to raise some funds in institutions that are recipients of this and to pay the tax. But that's what every normal country does. Italy, Austria, Germany, Belgium. That is why, of course, this amendment needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u299	Well, according to what I just said, I'm going to explain my voice like this. After World War II, an organized state robbery, a criminal, serious crime, which was not a natural accident, occurred in Slovenia, but was a human accident for all those who suffered it in one form or another. Among them, by the way, because there was now some laughter, there was also my grandfather, Maistrov's fighter, whom you sent with a mounted political process to an early grave. On Friday, when it's a holiday, remember me. And I, of course, will not support the amendment you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Of course I'll support the amendment myself. I did not decide to explain my vote in any way to convince anyone else, because I know what the result of the vote will be, because it is not based on arguments and facts, but on a preliminary conviction. I would like to reiterate once again that it is right and proper for everyone to contribute to the state budget and thus to the further development of the country as justly as possible, and for that reason also for those who have received back something that has been taken away from them. Let me conclude with the thought that it has always been true that God must be given what is God's and the State, which is the state of Caesar's. If the emperor gave to God what was his, then God give back what was Caesar's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u302	Thank you very much. We're voting. 70 present. 30, 37. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 33; the applicants are coalition parties. We're voting. I'm here for 67. Forty-eight, one vote. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the three amendments to Article 58. We first decide on the first amendment proposed by the coalition's parliamentary groups. If this is accepted, the two will remain irrelevant. Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u303	Thank you. I am pleased that, at least on this issue, we were obviously sufficiently effective to see colleagues and colleagues in the coalition making a big mistake in the income law in the residential area, as it was actually intended to overcome all the obligations to solve the housing problem on the shoulders of those who are trying to solve it on their own. The solution to increase tax relief from the proposed 2% to 4% of the annual tax base for the purchase or construction of an apartment house or apartment from its own resources is, of course, what we also wanted to implement with amendment number 2 and under number 3 is an additional relief, which, of course, will not have an epilogue that the ruling coalition would like to vote on it. However, obviously the arguments we use are yet extremely clear and accurate, and in some cases we find that the applicant did not have a happy hand when he chose who he would tax, who he would not tax. And the higher taxation of those who invest in building houses, of course, was one of the senseless acts of this law. Especially because construction itself has an extremely beneficial impact on both economic growth and the social status of each individual. Of course, this amendment or I will support this amendment, but really with a bitter taste, because it would be possible for this income law to make the articles much more developmental than they have so far in the [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u304	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. 65 present. 63 Members and Members voted against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and I have already said that if this amendment is adopted, amendments under points 2 and 3 shall not be voted on. By doing so, we have exhausted our decision on the amendments or second reading of the law. I'm finishing second reading. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 6, 16, 24, 33 and 59 of the amended bill. I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u305	The amendment to Article 58 is ready and will be tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u306	The amendment was tabled with the 58th member of the Social Democrats Group. To continue the debate on this amendment, I will read the amendment in full. The amendment to the amended proposal for an amendment to the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Income to Article 58 shall be inserted in Article 141a after the third paragraph, the following fourth paragraph: Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article, residents who for the first time solve a housing problem by buying or building a residential house or housing from their own resources shall be granted a tax relief of 10% of the annual tax base. The fourth and fifth paragraphs so far shall be renumbered accordingly. Explanation. In solving the housing problem, young people are particularly exposed to housing problems for the first time. Because it is young people who will become the engine of our society's progress, because those who create families and who solve their housing problems during their studies or outside their home, we are convinced that they need to be helped. Even though I'm reading, I'm asking you if you want us to reproduce this amendment. I guess not. You want us to reproduce? [[Yeah.]] I propose a 10-minute committee. 19.25 to continue the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u307	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we are continuing our meeting. You have just received an amendment from the Social Democrats' Group to Article 58. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u308	Thank you for your word. I'd like to explain why this amendment is actually going to work. In fact, the amendment complements the amendment already adopted by members of the coalition, who have made it clearer and, in particular, corrected the error adopted on the Committee by allowing for an increase in the tax base at the expense of investment in housing purchases due to the resolution of the housing problem. In doing so, they forgot that we actually know two categories of house buyers who are solving their housing problem, namely those who are buying a second apartment in their lives because their family has grown up and those who are buying the apartment for the first time. We probably all know that such a family, such a young person is much harder to buy an apartment than someone who is already stable, has a clear view of how his life will go on, and therefore, of course, he does not need as much relief as a young couple or a young family who fights for every tolar. This is why, of course, we propose that, as an addition to the new fourth paragraph, a tax relief of 4% for buyers of the first apartment or first residence should be increased to 10% of the annual tax base. Thus, to those who first buy an apartment to solve their housing problem, this 15-year extension would be 10% of the annual tax base, which, of course, if I could explain, does not mean that, in fact, if I bought a second apartment in this 15-year period, because the family had increased, then, of course, I would not be able to apply this 10% tax relief even in the next apartment, but tax relief would be the same as in the third paragraph, that is 4%. Thank you very much, Mr Žnidaršič, for being so committed to explaining to my colleague what this amendment actually means. However, I think it would be better if you listened a little bit more clearly to what this is all about. I think this amendment is useful to express the will of the coalition members and the government to support the provision of housing for young families. Here, or not in this regard, but as an appeal to the Ministry of Finance, I would say something else. In fact, we need to know that some unusual things are happening now. If, for example, the municipality builds an apartment block and wants to sell it, it wants to sell these apartments as non-profit apartments to the citizens of the municipality, which is building these apartments, for example, at the price of 1,200 euros per square meter, which is - I can't calculate as quickly as the tolars - they charge 8.5% of the VAT on this apartment, not from 1,200 euros, but from the current market price of a square meter of housing in that municipality. I find that incredible, unacceptable, and disastrous! Thus, the municipality is concerned that young families can reach their homes at a reasonable, affordable price, a tax charge of 8.5 per cent of the market price, regardless of the fact that the sale contract is actually concluded at Euro1,200, it is said that at a non-profit price the municipality has renounced, which is ultimately right, the profits, are also evidence of how much was actually paid. No, the tax is taxing the market price, dot! I think that this is also an invitation to the government and especially the Ministry of Finance to give such instructions to its employees at tax offices not to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u309	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u310	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, support this amendment. I think it's going in the right direction, and I think it's good. In particular, I believe that today, if I understand everything correctly, by taxing interest, we have clearly triggered the end of the national housing savings scheme. The fact is that this scheme has, however we estimate, diverted the savings of the population from consumer goods to investment goods into more lasting goods, and the fact is that this will no longer be the case. From this point of view, too, I think this amendment makes sense because it leads people and residents, especially those who save together with families who help them to better channel investment into more lasting goods, housing, than in consumer goods, increasingly new and better and stronger, more expensive and environmentally controversial cars. I certainly support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u311	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u312	Thank you. This amendment is one of those who I think should also be like some sort of red thread in thinking about where tax benefits are worth reducing and where they are not. If we reduce taxes on those who want to invest, this is extremely beneficial for public finances. Certainly, this relief is at least twice or three times refunded to the state budget due to an investment cycle which is significantly more active than when no investment is made. This recognised tax relief of 10% of the annual tax base, if for the first time it solves the housing problem by buying or building a residential house, is directed in this direction. The fact is that housing has extremely beneficial effects on the development of the economy, has very beneficial effects on social status, has, after all, beneficial effects on the development and enhancement of quality of life as well as on individuals and families in some environment. I would just like to remind the coalition that it is also one of the prime ministers, I will say, a vision of the development of Slovenia to raise birthrates in Slovenia. This is certainly one of those measures that follows this vision. If you really want to apply it, then this amendment is one with which we can say that you are serious and that it is not just empty words. However, most importantly, as I have said, it seems to me that such tax reliefs, which promote and create new added value, are an appropriate measure that should be taken not only in this case but also in others, if they would like to have stable public finances in the future. I would just like to recall once again the fact that, after 2006 and 2007, when we have exhausted some of the resources envisaged in this package of tax legislation, we certainly have very serious problems, and even more serious problems, as we have said many times before, when we have to cover our obligations to denationalisation and if we do not create new additional values, the state will come into a very difficult, inevitable situation that will certainly diminish international reputation, and, worst of all, the reputation within citizens and citizens themselves. That is why, of course, I expect this amendment to be supported and, of course, allow for a more stable public financial picture of our budget and a better quality of life for young families.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr. Rezman. Did you raise your hand? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u314	Thank you very much. According to not the most precise, so I think, data is currently missing in Slovenia about 6 000 apartments, according to those data I am talking about the last consultation on housing issues is about 100 municipalities, which do not invest even tolar in housing this year. There are many municipalities that do not at all approve subsidies to those who are entitled to it, who simply do not have such items in the municipal budgets. Some other congregations are those who build housing, give an average of 10 million for one apartment, or more, and the next month after the keys are given, the municipalities are additionally subsidized, since virtually all those for whom they first invest are also entitled to subsidies. Thirdly, what I would like to say in this regard is I can't quote again, but after memory in the coalition agreement, we commit ourselves to accelerating housing, so that we can take care of young people in particular, so that they can create families. Without an apartment, this is impossible, and now we also have the opportunity to help those who are self-sufficient and engage their own resources with tax reliefs. That is why I propose, and I think that, in fact, this follows from our coalition treaty, that it is right to support such an amendment. I'll be sure to back him up. At least I hope for the support of my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u315	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 30 votes against 37. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. This concludes the third reading of this point. I ask the representative of the government whether the amendments adopted have resulted in inconsistencies. [[Yeah.]] If you'll excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the light of the amendments adopted, paragraph 59 should be amended so that paragraph 59, fourth paragraph, is amended to read as follows: The third paragraph is deleted. In the fifth paragraph, the word "paragraph" shall be inserted after the word "paragraph" and the word "which becomes a new third paragraph". In paragraph 6, the word "fourth" is replaced by the word "third", and the word "fifth" is replaced by the word "fourth". It is the case that the amendments adopted to Article 33 of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act provided for a new 3rd paragraph exemption from capital gains from the acquisition of investment vouchers obtained in the process of the compulsory transformation of pids or investment firms resulting from pids, the replacement of shares of pids or investment companies acquired in the process of the property transformation of enterprises, in accordance with the rules governing the property transformation of enterprises. Thus, the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Income Act, which provides for the purchase value of the shares of pids or ids derived from the pid obtained in the process of the company’s own transformation, became irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u317	Thank you, Minister. You also received the amendment on the bench. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. We are moving to a vote on the government's harmonisation amendment to Article 59. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Mr. Squeakle, may I help you, on behalf of the delegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u318	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! We will not support the bill in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. While the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act has some good elements, in particular in the introduction of edification on passive incomes. It also has some other repairs. Apparently, too few parking spaces will now be available around the National Assembly, because we are also canceling the parking ratings. However, this law, as a result of the Government's proposal, removes the threshold of relief for the taxation of interest. And all Slovenians and Slovenes, no matter how much they save, will pay 20% of the interest. Along with some other amendments to the laws we have adopted this week, this will have an important negative impact on the stability of the Slovenian economy. At the same time, the government decided to show its true color one year after its performance. And this is the color that I, of course, have labeled as the color of those who primarily respect those above themselves, those who are financially stronger, those who are financially the most powerful in this society, because by this law, when you taxed interest and when you reduce the taxation of capital gains, you actually showed what you're dealing with. At the same time, you have decided that, despite the provisions of the Constitution on equality, a specific group of taxpayers should relieve the payment of the interest tax. It is good that we are on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, because there have been a few ideological debates, but we have found a solution that at least reduces this tax in this exemption. And we still have inequality before the law, which will simply mean that in Slovenia the poorest and the middle layer will pay, and the richest will, of course, be forgiven. This is the first step towards the reforms of Jože P. Damjan and, above all, of Mr Janez Janša. And of course this is Janša's first law, a law that greatly changes Slovenian society, from a consensus society, because such things will be agreed in agreement with the economic social partners, you have agreed with the great owners. We will therefore reject this law and, of course, take further steps to repeal it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u319	Thank you. Mr. Weber. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u322	Thank you. Even in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, the Income Act cannot be supported. If I repeat briefly the fact that the Government has explained this law very modestly, it has also submitted it in an urgent way, because, while it would have become irreparable consequences for the functioning of the State, it is evidence that the law is not in fact well prepared and that, in fact, no one has asked itself whether it is in order to ensure that the country's real long-term development is stable and that, of course, our public finances would be as stable in the long term as they were before this law was adopted. The financial assessment of the amendment of the law refers to a neutral effect in terms of public financial revenues. Of course, the simulation is for 2003 only. Time-related effects have already been neglected, which certainly leaves more deviations in the assessment for the following years and in the next few years, if I touch only briefly on the fact that we have taxed the reserves of our financial institutions as a single income and, of course, with these one-time revenues in 2006, 2007 we introduce additional incentives to favour the social groups that are enshrined in this law in the form of church employees, denationalising beneficiaries, public servants, but also sportsmen, farmers, craftsmen. All right, but what happens after 2006 and 2007, when these privileges need to be maintained and resources will not be maintained, nor will investments in such resources as we have tried to implement with the amendment into accelerated housing, which truly, with two or even three-fold effects, have impacted the introduction to public finances, have failed. If we add that workers are burdened with burdening themselves, especially the middle class and savers and savers, there are more than enough reasons not to support this law, because it seems inappropriate for us to assume that this middle class, however, bears the burden of privileges that are not necessary at all and that is why Slovenia alone deserves a much more constructive approach in all areas. Unfortunately, in two, three years, we will obviously be in very serious trouble if this income law is adopted in the same form as it is. For these reasons, of course, we will not support this law, and I hope that we will be successful in this too.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u323	Thank you. Mr. Pache, on behalf of the delegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u324	Your Honors are here! We can safely say that one of the first laws in the context of tax reform, accompanied by a strange process, is an urgent procedure, for which the government has already somehow apologized and said that it will no longer send them into reception in the coming year, and it seems to her that this is also a mistake, has shown its results. The law before us today is, for the first time, unjust. Here I would continue to think of the speaker before me, but I would like to extend and point out that not only the middle class of citizens, but also the lower class of citizens, according to income, will suffer or will replace the deficit due to the remuneration or future tax burden of denationalising beneficiaries or those who are holders of binding rights. According to our assessment of this law, you have achieved a poor journey of all reform, but more importantly, you have also caused fiscal policy under this government to know many types of citizens, reward the rich, reward the denationalisation of the righteous and punish the low and middle-class citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We in the National Party strongly believe that this is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, so I must also say from this point of view that, at least in the framework of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group at this point, we are deeply considering the inclusion of a constitutional court within the meaning of the assessment of this law, if adopted, before the Constitutional Court. Of course, we will oppose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u325	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u326	Two things. First, I'd like to say something about technique. Because it happened and I want to know if there's anything wrong with the next vote. In the previous amendment, I voted, but on the computer paper it doesn't show, it doesn't look like, no, we're all on fire, we're all working together, we've checked everything, it's working, and it's not on the list. [[...]] But it wouldn't change anything, even if one of my votes was more for that amendment, nothing would change. I just want to warn you. The other thing I'd say by the end of the walk is a little bitter, but that's the real weight of this marriage in my judgment. There was something we wanted to change in the middle, and because of procedural awkwardness, we failed. But some things could still be fixed, and there was not enough power, so I hope that there will be no hard feelings and that there will be no harm if Rezman's support does not have this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u327	Thank you. Mr. Sok. On behalf of the delegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Unlike the opposition parties, we will support this law in Novi Slovenija. We are convinced that this law eliminates many of the nonsense that the former authorities have enacted. Now is not the time to list them, but I'll count some of them at this time. Thus, for example, taxation of the allowance for large families, this law corrects it, then taxation for the care and assistance of disabled persons, this law improves, this law legitimises housing allowances, namely 4% of the tax base for the period of 15 years. This law simplifies complementary activities, from a 25% discount on the standard costs of raising this percentage to 70% up to the amount of six million. This law does not continue to tax interest of up to 300,000 tolars, they do not burden themselves. What you said all along today is not true, next year 300 thousand, then for 2007 150 thousand. And I could also tell you what all the corrections to this marriage are. What is most important, however, is that this law will also apply in 2005 and that we will prevent our citizens and citizens in a number of areas or allow them not to have to pay for the various nonsense that has been established and enacted in the previous law. Today, by those who have passed such legislation in the previous term towards the end, it is difficult to expect these changes to be applauded, to agree with all these changes, but it is already a great thing that you have all acknowledged that in this law many solutions are good, of course not all ideal, ideal laws are not, but in New Slovenia we think that it would not be necessary in the way you have opposed this law today. In New Slovenia, we will be happy to support it and think it is much better than the former government of Rob with Finance Minister Mramor at the helm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u329	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova, in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u330	I have to say, it's getting on my nerves, because all I keep hearing is how the previous Robbery government has been doing wrong. One year has passed, and I think that you colleagues from the government coalition have had one year to make all the mistakes of the government of Robbery a long time ago, and you do not have to keep repeating how the government of Robb was doing wrong. After one year, we'll start to judge what you've done wrong in one year. I must say that this law is certainly not the star of the law that the government has drawn up this year, but that the evening party is just before the West. And for that reason, I would also say that there are so many new injustices in this law that it is certainly not worth supporting, and of course I will vote against it, including because you were capable of four million tolars, or 6 million tolars, for example, for a very large salary, for a young family, it is a very large salary, so much so that we are aware, if this is a gross base, that in 15 years it is 6 million tolars. If such a taxpayer pays 30% of the tax, it is, say and write, a lousy million 200 thousand dollars in, say and write, 15 years less income in the budget! And I am very sad, and I have to say in particular that the Minister did not have one minute of time - but he had it at his disposal because this was the third case under urgent procedure - in order to be able to tell what the government's position was on the issue of this 10%. I must therefore say that I see no reason why I should vote in favour of such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u331	Thank you. Mr. Starman, on behalf of the delegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u332	On behalf of the Group of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, support this law. We would not like to deprive the majority of citizens of all the benefits that this law brings and for some of the systemicly more favourable solutions. It'd probably be more of a wish. I would point out once again that the law interferes with the area a year ago and will apply already this year. However, it is likely that citizens do not even know that they will have to report them in this year's report on many of the issues covered by the previous law, so these reliefs proposed in this law will be much more welcome for all of them. Once again, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u333	Thank you. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 26. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal for a company law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a company law, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. Mr. Potch, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We will support the bill in the parliamentary group. With this support, we express our renewed expectation from the government and the government that the proposed law will be supplemented by solutions to ensure that, until full regulation in the law on the participation of workers in management, companies that will be managed by one authority, the rights enjoyed today by workers up to at least a third of their cooperation in supervisory boards, as well as other forms of cooperation between workers in the management of businesses. In the debate, we drew attention to this great achievement of the social state in Slovenia, too, to the fact that, in accordance with the Constitution, we guarantee these principles in the future and that the successful development of Slovenia is possible only through the participation of work and capital, the involvement of people in governance and that it would be extremely bad if the level of solutions we have so far reduced by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u335	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u336	Your Honors are here! I am speaking because I want to explain why we will oppose the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. During this afternoon's debate, at least we addressed more from the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group after our assessment of the very important issues. Answers, of course, if they were positive, would be reflected in the so-called budgets of the Republic of Slovenia or, more specifically, in public finances. We have highlighted the dilemmas raised both in the coalition contract, i.e. the relations between companies, the question of public economics and the same identity or status of one company through two laws. We have also highlighted the issue of concessions, which, according to our assessment, should at least be categorically defined in the company law, but is still, despite the government's promise, excluded from the company law. In short, the company law proposed by the government does not, according to our assessment, bring about what the Slovenian economy would of course have earned. It would have earned more than a quick pace to set up a d.o.o. or s.p. According to our assessment, the Economic Society Act should monitor in particular all those measures that allow for the long-term survival of economic operators in our country. From all of this and, above all, because of the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which today had the opportunity to reply three times and to talk about the company law, we know that they were not present at the outset, they did not apply or answer the question, nor during the discussion where they had 30 minutes at their disposal, and they took advantage of, I think, five minutes, not even in the future, for which they could of course apply. It is from this title, and because of the fear that the attitude that government representatives have shown today, the attitude of the future or current Slovenian government towards the issue of the Slovenian economy, as set out in today's tradition, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party Group of this Act, cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u337	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members present and 52 votes against 7. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The law will be allocated to the mother's working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 11th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
