ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u1	Fellow Members, please take your seats. We'll start by continuing the regular session. Messengers, Members, others present! Good afternoon. We continue with the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am therefore starting with the 10th meeting, and I am informing you that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting by the following Members: Dr Slavko Gaber, Alojz Posedel and Janko Weber from 6 p.m. on. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, the bill on double price labelling in the Tolars and the Euros. I would like to warn you that the time for discussion is 2 hours and 18 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Please. If you'll excuse me, please, just let me ask you to step forward for the central pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you very much. I would like to make a brief presentation of the Law on Double Price Marking. By entering the European Union, Slovenia has committed itself to taking over the currency used by the 12 current members of the European Union, which make up the so-called European Monetary Union. On 28 June 2004, Slovenia entered the ERM2 European Exchange Rate Mechanism. Slovenia has decided to take over the euro as a monetary currency under the big bang scenario, which is the main alternative to introducing the euro under the Madrid scenario. This is the scenario under which the current members of the European Monetary Union have taken over the euro. According to the big bang scenario, the introduction of the euro coincides with the introduction of coins and banknotes, and the period of double circulation of money is extremely short. Due to this short pre-accession period, which will last from the abolition of the derogation and the publication of the exchange rate, which will take as long as the introduction of the euro as a monetary unit and as a means of payment, the public must, of course, be as familiar with the European currency as possible. Public awareness will help build people's confidence in the new currency while at the same time allowing a softer takeover of the euro, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia support the prompt introduction of an information dual price labelling aimed primarily at informing final consumers. Most countries, except those listed in the Comparative Presentation, Austria, Greece and Portugal, which have already introduced the euro, have not regulated double labelling by legal regulations, since professional associations of enterprises, governments of countries and consumer organisations have concluded mutual agreements on informing consumers with the new currency. In Slovenia, unfortunately, no such agreement has been reached, according to the above-mentioned plan, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a plan for the introduction of the euro, which is the joint material of the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where it is stipulated that the obligation to inform dual price labelling is governed by law. The Act on double labelling of prices in tolars and euro is governed by the obligation to double and informative double the prices of goods and services offered by companies to consumers at the time of introduction of the euro as a legitimate means of payment in the Republic of Slovenia. The law imposes an obligation on undertakings to double the prices of goods and services for information purposes. The emphasis of the law is on informing consumers of the foreign currency and at the same time attracting them to the easier takeover of the euro, as dual pricing is an important element that makes it easier for the consumer to understand the real value of the euro. The aim of double and informative price labelling is also to enable a smooth transition of currency exchange, gradual adjustment and preparation of consumers to assess the prices of goods and services in euro and to prevent inflation from rising due to the introduction of the euro by price comparability. The law provides for the obligation of undertakings to double the prices of goods and services in all emerging forms, but Article 7 provides for exceptions to the general requirements of the proposed law, namely those undertakings which offer goods and services in a specific way and which would result in disproportionate economic damage or in such price labelling being technically impossible. The proposed exemption requirements seek to achieve at least a minimal effect and the purpose of this law despite the general exemption. Proposal for a law lays down exceptions to the general rules in the following areas: petrol pumps [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u3	Let me warn you, you're running out of time, or you're already out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u4	Catalogues, meat, fish markets, delicacies and bread, vending machines for sale [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u5	Excuse me. The rules in this house are very clear. They will apply to you, too. The National Assembly, however, continues to present its position, and before that, we will hear a report from the parent’s working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr. Ferry Horvath, to submit a report to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u6	President, Honourable Secretary of State, Ministry of Economy, Colleagues and Colleagues. My presentation will be brief because you have a thorough report before you, and I regret that I cannot give Mrs State Secretary time to explain the law in more detail. The Committee on the Economy considered the draft law as the parent working body at its 7th meeting. The law was already in place before the meeting and also at the meeting of the interested organisations, in particular in the chambers, as reflected in the written opinions and comments and the proposals for amendments to the Committee. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and some of the comments and suggestions of interested organisations, amendments covered by the amended law, which is an integral part of the report, were adopted in cooperation with the proposers. Let me just stop at one question that was the most "disputed" [[in pomegranates]] or which was the most discussed and also the most written comments. Some comments were made on the exceptions, which were then also taken into account and covered by Article 7. Most of the comments, however, were made in written opinions and in the Committee's debate on the provision on mandatory IT dual price labelling from 1.3.2006 until the date on which the exchange rate was fixed. This was also the most discussed at the Committee's meeting, there were arguments for and against, but the Committee decided by a majority of votes that information dual labelling was also mandatory and followed the Government's proposal and the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the DeSUS Group of Members. Ambassador Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The takeover of the euro will certainly be an important milestone, and I hope that we will carry it long and in good memory. However, the problem is also that there are some little things that we have not all agreed on. These little things are mere trinkets, because they are billions of costs that accompany these little things, and as far as they are concerned, in the DeSUS Group of Members we have not been able to agree with government proposals, although the law as a whole we support. We believe, however, that a government proposal would be good and necessary, so to speak, necessarily to amend and remedy these weaknesses, which threaten us with predictable additional costs, which, according to our judgment, are unnecessary. And when we talk about billions, it's probably worth thinking about, because it's not about any small amounts that we could barter here and there, but it's important costs, it's important costs that will have a negative impact on trade. As a result, of course also those who go to trade and potentially also to the development potential of trade activities. What we judge is the need for the double-information pricing time to be abolished, so that we do not have mandatory double-information price labelling. At one exchange rate, the minimum cost means more than a billion two hundred million dollars, and it is our view that with nothing these additional three, four months, do not contribute to better business or some of the other goals set by the government when preparing this material. Time is long enough to attract people to the euro, and we also feel that it is necessary to allow a 14-day period for those stickers, which in technical terms means physical work, to be able to stick for 14 days after the day when we will also accept the physical new payment funds. The takeover of the euro gives rise to some concerns. We see that they are caused by the state, that the state has concerns here and that it wishes to extend this preparatory period for as long as possible. This double marking has been extended to 16 months. They also have thoughts and concerns in the economy. The economy was unanimous and firm against mandatory double information, double labelling at this age and against unnecessary costs. But unfortunately, the country did not listen to the economy in this case. The third people to enter this process are, of course, people. People, buyers, practically no one asked anything, but we judge that there is no big problem for people. Slovenians and Slovenians are as capable as other European nations in a relatively short period of time to get used to another currency, especially because we have extremely rich experience. We can count into lire, we can count into shillings, we can count into brands, we can count into Croatian currency, and we'll probably know into the euro. And we estimate that the unnecessary extension of this time of application does not have the appropriate effects. It seems to us that the government here acts like a little girl with a jug and tries to pour water into a glass. But when the glass is full, pouring no more helps, there is no more water in the glass, the water spills, means entropy, means unnecessary extra cost. The reference to the European Union will also be superfluous. The European Union did not require informative double labelling, did not require such a long approach and should quote what Commissioner Almuin said, because he said that the European Commission intends to recommend double price labelling from the time a certain exchange rate is set and not earlier, and we are doing the opposite. We therefore propose that you support our amendments, that we then adopt such an amended law and that we listen to the economy in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you for your position. I invite the Member of the Parliament, Mr Matey Močovnik, to present the position of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Dear Members! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we have expressed a number of concerns about the proposed law. We have noted that there is no need to extend the deadline, since it is perfectly logical that this period for double labelling is 12 months, from the time the central parity is clearly defined, or from the time the course is fixed. If this period is extended beyond the period when the rate is fixed, it means that, at each exchange rate, all prices on all products should be re-marked. This is linked to the high costs and the debate on the Committee on the Economy has shown that it is recalled by both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce, as mentioned before, warned that we could face 1.24 billion tolars of unnecessary costs simply because we simply stretched this deadline without any meaningful explanation. It was not for the first time in this mandate that the Committee concluded something which is in sharp contrast to the recommendations of the Section, with the recommendations of the Chamber of Commerce, with the recommendations of the Chamber of Commerce. I'm saying that's not good. That's not good. And those who supported the law, as it was, I hope they know what they're doing. I would also point out that the analysis itself, the study itself, did not sufficiently support the other aspects of possible price increases in terms of income elasticity, price elasticity, market demand, in terms of competitive structure. We are missing these arguments, but above all we need to stress that it is true, of course, that in countries that have introduced the euro, there has also been a higher price increase because some traders have used this to encourage. Therefore, a 12-month double-labelling period is necessary, once again I stress the need for and will need to be closely monitored as to what will happen to prices. There is no guarantee that there will be no incitement to this law, no matter how it may be. The government should therefore significantly strengthen its cooperation with consumer organisations in this area, as this is the only way to prevent irritation, only in this way can it be made aware and alerted to consumers at risk of irritation. It's just this period that you've extended from 12 to 16 months, I don't know what it'll do. As a result, consumers will not be better informed, the arguments presented by the government's position were practically absent, the argument was based on why the government decided to extend this period voluntarily from 12 months to 16 months, the argument on the Committee on the Economy was: because the government decided to do so on that day. That was because we decided to do so, so you're gonna raise your hands and you're gonna confirm it. No substantive, substantial arguments, and I am sorry that this has happened. Later, it was somehow found that the Ministry of Finance should be the anchor of the fact that this period should simply be extended. I do not think that this is a good way to address these issues, especially with regard to the introduction of the euro, which we all support, which is a national project of some kind, that even when it comes to dual price information labelling, it is necessary to draw from consensus and from the warnings of the profession, the profession should not be ignored because it is not good. This has already happened too often on the Committee on the Economy in this mandate, so in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we have proposed an amendment, where we are trying to reduce this deadline to 12 months of mandatory double price labelling. The period within which the rate is fixed cannot be changed, but it also prevents any possibility of additional costs being incurred, so that prices from week to week should be re-labelled, renumbered and thus cause trade and other unnecessary costs that can go to hundreds of millions of dollars and which may at the end of the period be the reason for price stimulation. Thus, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have decided that when the amendment is adopted, the law can be supported, but if the amendment is not adopted, of course we cannot support the law and we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Socialist Group of Members. Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Socialist Group of Members, we will support the proposal for a double price labelling law, although we are not quite sure whether the government has considered from all the points of view all the comments addressed to the proposal of the law, in particular those from the Chamber of Commerce and Economics, that is, the economies that point to the costs to be incurred at the time of double price labelling. We therefore hope that the government has weighed all the arguments sufficiently to ensure that the law achieves its purpose, despite the fact that the Ministry of Economy, as a bill-maker, has changed its original idea of the content of the law. In particular, it is a period until the introduction of a fixed rate where the initial design of the law provided for flexibility; therefore, that the time of informative double price labelling would not be legally binding in order to make this obligation optional, on the basis of recommendations. In short, the period of double price labelling, which will be one of the longest within the European Union countries, following this proposal of the law in Slovenia, should aim primarily to ensure that consumers get used to the euro, to better understand the real value of the euro, to make this transition from tolls to euro as much as possible, and to ensure that consumers are as prepared as they can for this transition. Last but not least, this will prevent an unnecessary increase in inflation, which has also taken place in some countries where the euro has been introduced. As a result of this objective, we also support the adoption of this law in the Group of Social Democrats. We are not entirely convinced, however, that the government has given sufficient thought and thought to the time frame for this adjustment and the costs involved. Here, of course, the government has not been prepared to listen to the economy, in view of the beautiful words of the advocate for savings, which will, in particular, be at a time of informative double price labelling, which should start on 1 March 2006, when there is no fixed rate of the euro, at an unnecessary cost of two or more billion tolars. While one way or another, the economy will bear several billion tolls of unnecessary costs in the labelling of prices associated with the transition from one currency to another. In short, from the point of view of consumers, it seems appropriate that this should start as soon as possible, which is also a recommendation of experience on the first introduction of the euro from some European Union countries. At the same time, however, it would be necessary to take into account the material costs aspect and, of course, the fact that consumers in Slovenia have already performed this operation at least twice in the last 15 years and that we therefore have some experience that I will not say the routine. In view of the amendments tabled, it is still time to think carefully and possibly correct what has been written down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you. I invite Member Cyril Testene to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Members and Members of the Government. The New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group will support the proposal for a double price labelling law in Tolars and Euros. Given that the exchange of currency for each country is an important milestone in its history, this is particularly important for Slovenia, since we have often changed currencies in recent decades, it is even earlier introduction that makes sense and is welcome. The exchange of currency or takeover of the euro shall touch all segments of society, both citizens, businesses, financial institutions and the whole economic system of the country. This transition from one currency to another must be smooth in order not to cause any particular problems with the market operator. Gradually adapting and preparing consumers for the evaluation of the prices of goods and services in euro is particularly important for consumers and their protection, as consumers are undoubtedly the weakest member of the entire economic system when the currency is replaced. The proposed law provides for three periods of double price labelling, first of all a four-month period of double price labelling, when the euro rate has not yet been fixed, which is also the most controversial one and has also been dealt with by the Committee on the Economy. The period of 6 months followed when the course was fixed before the introduction of the euro and the period of 6 months after the introduction of the euro. The aim pursued by the proposer is to prevent inflation from rising due to the introduction of the euro. By double-labelling longer-term prices, constant warning to consumers about possible price changes is more effective. The proposer also wants to prevent the price of goods and services from being quietly raised under the cover of the new currency, which would result in higher inflation. In the New Slovenia Group, we decided to support the law in the form presented, because the debate on the Committee on the Economy showed that the additional four months before fixing the course do not also mean additional costs for the economy or are minimal, only tied to the longer period of double labelling. The vice-governor of Banka Slovenije claimed that there was a high probability that there would be no difference between the exchange rate in the first four months of double labelling and fixed rates. According to the parliamentary group, all the arguments that opponents have advocated for such a long double price labelling were thus rejected or groundless. We will support the proposed law along with the amendments proposed and also adopted by the home committee. Finally, I would like to comment on the position of the LDS Club, which says [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u15	Please allow me to stop you at this time when the debate or presentation of the views of the groups of Members is not enough. Please use the option of an ordinary discussion to comment. We are moving on to a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, MEP Kristijan Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Dear President, Secretary of State, co-workers, colleagues, colleagues and greetings to everyone on the balcony. The debate on the proposal for a bill on double price labelling in tolars and euros has been quite varied, interesting, dynamic, with great arguments for and against both the government representatives who have spoken to us - the vice-governor, as well as the Members who, of course, have been looking for certain arguments in this regard. The decision on the double price labelling law is important for several reasons. On the one hand, we want to protect consumers by law in a way that allows them to be used for a new currency as soon as possible, the euro. Another important reason cited by the law itself, however, is the changeover to the euro and price comparability to prevent inflation from rising due to the introduction of the euro. I believe that the rise in inflation cannot be completely prevented, but that the law can not be satisfied and that it will still be minimal. At Slovenia's entry into the ERM2 exchange rate mechanism, Slovenia decided to take over the euro, for example, as a currency under the big bang scenario. This is supposed to happen by 1.1.2007. Due to this short period of time until the euro is taken over, it is essential to regulate the transition to the euro. In the SLS Group, we believe that we are already in a hurry. The fundamental dilemma that arises in this law, which we have also discussed extensively on the Committee on Economic Affairs, is whether it is reasonable and necessary to double price labelling to be introduced by March next year, if we can expect a fixed rate to be already known in June. This fact, however, is intended to reduce, to a certain extent, the cost or part of the cost of double price labelling as the exchange rate will no longer change at the fixed rate. If the exchange rate before the introduction of the fixed rate were to fluctuate significantly, this could also mean a significant increase in the cost of double price labelling. There are two, at least partly contradictory arguments, to some extent. Firstly, as much consumer protection on the one hand as possible and the reduction of the cost of the economy on the other, of course, provided that, under no circumstances, we do not want to impose any additional burden on the economies that are already overburdened and, on the other hand, we must necessarily protect the consumer and allow a smooth transition to the new European currency. At least to a certain extent, the problem of over-cost double labelling solves the law by establishing exceptions which exempt this obligation from a certain method of sale, which would actually compromise the double price labelling. On the basis of all this and our belief, we believe that the government has examined and clarified all the effects of the proposal for a law, and we will support the law of the Slovenian People's Party despite some serious concerns. Our common goal is clear as soon as possible to take over the euro in a way that will not have any more serious consequences for our consumers or our economy. I believe that this law will also contribute to this goal. I also believe the words of the representative of the Bank of Slovenia, who said that the exchange rate would probably not change and therefore the argument of the economy on additional higher costs is also dropped, as the costs of the economy will be approximately the same, regardless of the time of the introduction of double labelling. If the vice-governor of the Bank of Slovenia says so, I can believe as a Member, and that is why the Slovenian People's Party will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! There is more than one way to get to the so-called euro or so-called euro. Some countries, even once our countries, Montenegro, have chosen a very special system. Nothing to you, nothing to me, one day they said from now on the euro would be our national currency. Everyone in that country has just begun to use the euro, both in the form of an official financial instrument and a purely real official instrument that has taken root in people. But this path, which seems to be the simplest, has many negative consequences and cannot be an example to our country. In short, it does not belong to the European Monetary Union. The second path our country, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia, has chosen is much more difficult than meeting the convergence criteria and the so-called intermediate phase in which we are now within the legislative branch of government. So, a period of double price labelling. The Secretary of State, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we have heard that this is not an obligation of a member. Therefore, dual labelling of prices is not an obligation for the Republic of Slovenia under the European Union Directive. It is the decision of the individual member in this period of adaptation to the final phase of the monetary, i.e. the monetary union of the European Community or the European Union. During this period, it makes sense to ask what is better for users, for users of the euro - that is, when we gain the euro: whether it is better to put them through this period of double labelling, or to put them before the fact one day, and to find new prices on the shelves - that is, without that period. The answer to this is, at least according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, a two-layer. So it is certainly better for customers if the period of double price labelling is mainly because they can adapt, get to know and communicate more easily, on the one hand with the value of the product, and on the other hand what we do not quite like as customers is what we do on the cash market - just pay. On the other hand, we have heard that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has gained many views, comments, whether they come from the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce. Therefore, as regards the companies actually carrying out the dual labelling exercise, many comments were made. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not take these comments into account. And as for the Slovenian National Party's position on the above-mentioned law, we must say that we are particularly lacking in the part that speaks of the so-called costs of this period and here goes on to resent the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that it has given too little attention to this part of the law, I stress, too little attention, especially in the sense that our desire is to relieve the economy, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has gone here in the sense of the burden of the economy. And allow me to say the final position of the National Party in today's vote. Everything depends on the amendments that are adopted today. We support the amendments of the DeSUS Group of Members, as well as the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament. We believe that by adopting these amendments we would make the law more friendly, and at the end of the day, it is the task of all of us to make laws that will take place positively or accept on the one hand with customers, in our case with consumers, and on the other hand to make the law as human as possible to the other dimension of customers of this law, that is to economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u19	That's it. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I will lead the debate on the basis of the 24.10. review of the amendments, so I will put to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members and the amendment of the same content of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Who wants a word? Comrade Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I would like to have a few more sentences in support of the amendment to the 1st, and also to the 6th, because, of course, they are linked, supported by the article. So it's two related articles that try to take into account what our economy wants. And this is about our economy right now. These two articles are trying to prevent unnecessary and rather likely billions of costs from being incurred through mandatory information dual price labelling. And we feel that the government can also give up if it listens to the economy and follows its own goals. She wrote down three objectives in the draft law. The first objective is a smooth transition; the second objective is to gradually attract people to double labelling, or to the euro and third aim of preventing inflation. With regard to the smooth transition, the government has already made an effort, along with others, to have a smooth transition. An orderly transition does not yet mean an endless long transition, it means one that is regulated, one that we will know what is going on in this transition. And that's what we got. With regard to the gradual introduction of people to the euro, we do not have, as it were, any problems. We have shown people in the past that we know how to calculate and that the underestimation of Slovenians and Slovenians is completely superfluous to the visas of other European nations. Others were able to do so in a much shorter time and without mandatory informational pricing. And the third objective is to prevent inflation. Inflation should be prevented in such a way that people have a precise price comparison, so that when alleged fraudulent traders write wrong prices, they can see whether the prices correspond to those of the previous day. If we wanted to ensure this, then we should really have double price labelling, but both in tolars - to know what the price was yesterday and what the price was today. Then we'd have a comparison of whether or not traders wrote too high prices. And since none of the three goals the government has set itself, our amendments do not threaten them, I suggest that you support them and that we show that we know, at least here and there, that we are also inclined to be in favour of the needs of our Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Mojet to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u22	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We seem to be making simple decisions today, but this matter has far-reaching consequences for the quality of life in the Republic of Slovenia. If we look only at history back, we gave up the south to the dinar on 8.10.1991 and we will probably have our national currency, as we have decided, by 31.12.2006, that is to say, 15 years we will have our national currency. In this country, we were able to witness a double calculation, one was a rise in prices, a rise in wages and everything else in the SIT, and the other was calculated in euros. This means now, whether after we no longer have our national currency and we will somehow try to get closer to what my salary was worth in a given period, I will no longer have to say it in the SIT, but in the euro. This is said to be the course that will be anchored somewhere at the end of 2006 and 1.1.2007. If we used the same data all the time for these calculations, then somehow we would have gotten the time series and indices from 1991 until now, they would have been matched and they would probably have called the SIT Euro 2007. However, if we take into account the international euro budgets, these things are, of course, extremely complicated. As an example, I would say the average monthly salary. Let's say it's a Euro class. First, ECU was, if you remember, then since 1999, the euro has been introduced as a currency in ten, later in Denmark in twelve. If we look, the euro rate was 1992 - under the direction of the euro - since ECU was 105.08, the average wage was 330 thousand 813, the euro was 293 and if I now take 2002 as 100%, then the index in the SITs was 20.8 index in the euro and 46.4. That means, these are the different things that can be very complicated and bring great problems in calculating to now. The pension shall be determined on the average monthly personal income of a given year, the debts to be settled which are not settled. The third thing that seems most important to me when we move on to double price labelling and this double price labelling will then have to be the same when we adopt the euro and we will no longer have the SIT, what will be the price comparison in Europe, because there is no more customs. To be with us, what do I know, say, a pound of bread of 5 euros and outside 3 euros. That means, again, the exhaustion of our wealth. However, if these calculations are not well thought out, how from one currency to another and how to determine prices, I, as a professor in Slovenia, will be able to have at the same price for a quarter of that pension that my colleague in Austria will have. That is why it is more than necessary for you to then tell us in your answers whether this interpolation of these euros and those prices will then apply to the entire monetary policy of Slovenia from 2007 until 1991. For this reason, it seems to me that we would avoid this and that something would not be fixed, that it is okay to accept the first amendment tabled by DeSUS and LDS, where only an informational way of double-labelling prices. After these things that I have said, we can find great differences in price movements in terms of the environment and in terms of the conversions that have been made. Here I have an example, if you see cash in 2007, converted to the SIT euro, how it moves into the SIT and how it moves into the euro and how these two curves come together. That is why it is important whether what is going to happen in the last year - under the terms "law" - and this way of calculating and methodology will be applied by 1991, or whether it will be just an informational character. This would be a good thing, colleagues and colleagues, for all the things I have pointed out to accept this amendment and to somehow devote ourselves to this issue at a meeting, what will happen to us - we do not have much time - once we come to the euro from the national currency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Zagorec to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The amendment to Article 1 will be supported by the Slovenian National Party. I think that the purpose of every law is to make it as simple as possible, as simple as possible, as life itself, and allow for the best possible exercise in everyday life. We have before us a law whose provisions set out a way of double-labelling prices and the obligation to double-label goods in time to take the euro to the base or ours, then it will be our national currency. The proposal, as set out in the basic law of the law, as stated by the Government, I think it complicates or complicates the introduction of double labelling. I think that the amendment proposal is much more systematic and lifelike, because the government assumes that double taxation would have been introduced from 1.3.2006 when a fixed rate is not yet known, after which our national currency, the Slovenian tolars, would have been converted into euros. I think that the proposal of the DeSUS Group that this double taxation should only be introduced when we have a fixed rate of the euro, after which the euro will be converted into tolars, is much more viable. For imagine complications as long as this course changes during that fixation. We may also wonder on the basis of the transparency of the work of the ruling coalition, which is the proponent of the basic content. Is it possible that if he wants to introduce the euro now that we don't have a fixed exchange, he might not be hiding something else? We will support the amendment in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you. Someone would like a word with regard to Article 1 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members and the Liberal Democracy. My friend Friday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Pache, for your word. So I would also like to add my thoughts to the amendment that we have tabled in the Liberal Democracy and whose contribution is also on the DeSUS side. So, I'm making it clear to the government that he likes to use the word deregulation in all spheres of our lives. In this case, he is doing something to deny himself: therefore, he does not simply trust in the economy, he does not trust the citizens of Slovenia, and he imposes himself with his coercive measures something that we feel is absolutely unnecessary. Introduce a system of compulsory information labelling during a period when no one in this country is likely to say confidently that this course will also be the same later when it is fixed, thus burdening the proposal with the period of the economy, so it seems to me that spitting in your own bowl, while at the same time listening in all these statements, to the fact that the government wants to unload the economy. That's different. In this case, it is burdensome, and this is a fact, and the government has not even denied it, and the government's representatives on the Committee on the Economy have not denied it. They simply go through all these legitimate comments from the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce or all the entities that will be affected by this. At the same time, it seems to me that the government is underestimating the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, at the same time underestimating its constituents who, in their lives, have done worse to Slovenia after independence, have experienced even worse than simply converting tolars or the prices of individual products from tolar. I think that we in Slovenia have already been able to calculate these costs during this period, in fact, in the European Union, so that we are accustomed to the euro currency, that we are already self-evidently in our heads or using computers to calculate these costs, and that four-month period is totally unnecessary, useless, unreasonable and I do not know why the government has refused to give up all reasonable comments, opinions, requests, requests, wishes, etc., to entities that actually put this on the soul. That is why I myself propose or appeal to the Members of the Coalition to accept, in my opinion, at least these reasonable reasons to avoid unnecessary costs and to support an amendment that does not substantially change the purpose, a good intention to start with the introduction of this dual marking in a timely manner, but does not start as quickly as the Government has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you. I invite my colleague Barovic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues! On my behalf as a member of the Slovenian National Party, I would very much like to say that our country, the State of the Republic of Slovenia, would be like Sweden, Great Britain and Denmark. This is completely understandable and would keep your currency. But since we've entered a club, we have to follow the rules. I will confirm what has already been said, mainly from the standing of this party. We can't play. We cannot go, with all due respect to my friends, whom I love and much - say, Montenegro, where they introduced the euro just like that and change prices from day to day. We are a serious country, we are a member of the European Union and we must respect the rules of the game. That is why I absolutely support the amendments tabled in the DeSUS Group and also in the LDS to start using the euro at the time and at the time of the establishment of a fixed rate. There is no other game for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! Practice across Europe clearly shows that prices adjusted according to needs, wishes and showed an increase index. In the Republic of Slovenia, when we are looking for a social level suitable for the life of all Slovenes and Slovenes, we cannot afford it. Therefore, I propose to the government, I propose to the National Assembly, I propose to my colleagues and colleagues that we act reasonably, respect our own currency and respect the fixed rate when it is not possible to adapt to it. And let's be reasonable in this case. We are all in negotiations, we are all at a time when we need to design economic, economic and fiscal policies, and fiscal policy is also linked, and let us be smart, let us act reasonably, start with the amendments on 1.7.2006 when we have a fixed course and maintain this course.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you. Anyone else want a word about Article 1? Mr. Testen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Look, the first four months are controversial, when the course isn't fixed yet. This has also been discussed extensively on the Committee on the Economy. I would also like to say that my personal opinion and the opinion of our parliamentary group, probably in any other group, were not in favour of the proposed amendment until we heard the most competent opinion in my opinion - this is the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia, which has given a very broad explanation that the exchange rate is unlikely to change even during the first four months. This is certainly an advantage and I think there will be no harm to the economy because these same prices will remain. Thus, in view of Banka Slovenije's assurance that we believe it makes sense to have a double price period as long as possible, that it makes sense for us - it is also very important for us that period after the introduction of the euro, that prices remain as long as possible in tolars, because of the fact that we do not leave memory too quickly. I would also like to point out that our inflation has come very close to Europe or that it is at European level and that there is no reason for them to be concerned as well. However, some prices are already marked in euros and in tolars in our country today, and I must say that they are not exactly recalculated. We'll say one at the toll station, say, 1.60 euros and 360 tolars. This, if you recalculate, is somehow not going together after the course, so I think that more attention will have to be paid to all these operators here in this area of controlling these prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you. The last one reported so far is colleague Bojan Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you. Look, we're all talking about when to start mandatory or optional pricing, and no one talks about what they're going to write about size, about the size of the exchange rate. I think, although Mr Vice Governor of Banka Slovenije said that it is likely that the exchange rate will no longer change significantly, I think this is a key issue: what will be the exchange rate when we pass. We know that our economy is not extremely uncompetitive. What are the salaries in the public sector - this is also non-competitive for our economy. Given what the vice-governor has provided, that's fine. But the second thought of what's gonna happen next is another thing. Another issue about the exchange rate, our balance sheet - of course again someone will say that this does not "match" now in this set regarding the date. But I am telling you that the level of the exchange rate will have a significantly more impact on our economy than on this date. The date, if so, I repeat, as the vice-governor said, of course the matter will be fine, and this date with March 1st is also fine - no problem. But I am afraid that the exchange rate will not hold up if it holds the exchange rate as it is today, but I am telling you that, with all the wages, with our economy's inefficiencies, the efficiency in our public sector that such a exchange rate is an extremely poor journey for our entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you. My colleague Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Well, there will be no misunderstandings, we are not against double price labelling, we are against mandatory price information labelling, which is likely to cause a billion 240 million tolls of additional costs for traders. Some who later changed their attitude were also opposed. They changed their position, as has now been said twice, because they trusted Mr. Vice Governor. I am not in favour of discussing such important decisions and deciding whether to believe or not. And I asked the vice-governor at the meeting whether he could also make sure there would be no change of course, and whether he would take any responsibility for it. The answer was silence. So there is no guarantee and there is no taking responsibility for any error. What we are proposing, however, is a guarantee that billions of 240 million dollars of additional costs cannot be added. That's why we suggest it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you. Dr. Lakhovnik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Well, that's exactly what I wanted to point out. Now, referring here to Mr. Vice Governor, in a way, it's very questionable. On the Economics Committee, we proved him wrong. He said that since there is a high probability that there will be no exchange rate changes, I can ensure that there will be no additional costs. It's a completely wrong statement. Anyone who knows a little bit about probability knows that's not the case. If I say so, I can very likely ensure that there are no additional costs, it would be fine. But he can't just make it easy. That's why I'm worried about his assurances. Another time. The debate shows that we are all for double price labelling after the course is fixed. The question is, what about this four-month previous period? The question of the course, of course, does not have a direct connection, in the way that it was previously exposed. Now the course combines the inner purchasing power and external purchasing power of citizens and citizens in some way. But, look, the course can already swing in the plus-minus 15% range and is more or less fixed. Because there have been no severe fluctuations in recent months, and it is now possible to predict with great probability what the final course will be like; that is, as much as a good financial economist or a monetaryist gives you a high probability. The problem is somewhere else. If you already set mandatory price information labelling on 1 March and there are already minimal changes in the rate, which are not important as a percentage, but can be, I don't know, 0.2, 0.3%. This results in costs for the economy. Why? Because they have to redefine all prices, they change to a new one because it's not fixed yet. It can swing to a very limited extent, in no way swinging in the range plus minus fifteen percent, we know that, we can say this, but there is a certain, indeed, low probability that even from 1 March to the end of June in these four months it will be able to swing for one tiny thing, as I said, 0.2%, 0.3% and then the question will be asked what then. Whether trade will have to redefine everything and how many times will it have to repeat this process, if these fluctuations continue and this causes those additional costs and each change, this is calculated and calculations show that this is true, each change means $1.24 billion for the economy. It's just for the store. And this is what we talked about on the Committee on the Economy, and this isn't about what the purchasing power is going to be right now. Of course, we are all directly asking ourselves this and we want to prevent the price from rising by introducing the euro and therefore the real purchasing power from falling. But that's why we have that 12-month period of double labelling. That is why we have consumer organisations, and I myself have asked the government to cooperate with them to warn consumers or the public of possible unfair incitements. No serious company can afford to just use the currency change to raise prices. You can afford this if this happens undetected, but the task of consumer organisations, if you want the media, is to remind you of such a practice. And if they warn that a mechanism will be put in place here, if you want some cooperation between the government and the non-governmental sector, then this increase will not just have to happen. And we are not doing anything else with our amendment to reduce the risk of exchange rate changes during that four-month period, or the consequences of the exchange rate change during that four-month previous period, and thus eliminate the risk of additional costs. That's all this is about. And if Mr Vice-Governor had said, surely with 100% probability, I can claim that there will be no exchange rate change from 1 March to the end of June, and therefore with 100% probability I can ensure that there will be no additional costs, I would have supported, without any difficulty this law as it is. But because he didn't say that and you can read from the magnetogram that he said, "because there is a high probability that there will be no change of course," then, of course, he went on to say wrong, because he should say, "so I can say with great probability that there will be no additional costs". But you know, it's a long shot for me. Because if there was a swing, yes, I would expect 100% and that's the basis, because with this 4-month period you're completely nothing. [[...]] It is important what will happen during that 12-month period, how the government will react, how it will work with consumer organisations, how the public will react. Because, in virtually all countries facing the introduction of the euro, there has been incitement. And a fine example was Italy, where these impressions were significant, but this must have been some starting point for us, someone to avoid. And that's why it's an important role here, in consumer organisations, or if you want everyone who's just going to watch and inform the public. That's what this is about. And by this amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which is substantively equivalent to the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members, we do not reduce in any way the right of consumers to be informed about prices during that 12-month period, which is crucial. All we do is listen to the warnings of the profession, the warnings coming from the economy, and the warnings of some other experts, but of course they clearly say that now because this period will be extended by four months, this risk of price increases will not, of course, be reduced. It'll still exist. And together we need to prevent this, but not with some senseless extension of this period, which is obviously advocated only by the Ministry of Finance with all four of them, because the vice-governor thinks that this is now very good and, just in case, of course, it does not wonder what this means for the costs of the Slovenian economy. One in twenty-four billion for trade is not that small. And don't worry, the merchants will know how to price it. And in the end, we will have a double effect. The cost effect, and the risk of the impact of the introduction of a new currency. And my point is that we are trying, we are listening to rational arguments and that when we introduce the euro, there must be some consensus here, in particular, we need to listen to the warnings of the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you, Dr. Lakhovnik. The word is from Dr. Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. So from what we've said so far, it's more or less clear that we're going through the big bang scenario, even though I, as a physicist under a big bang, represent something completely different. He's well prepared, but that's why I put this big bang in the introduction. The big bang, let me be allowed a little physical background, started at some point and from then on in the first steps brilliantly, and then always softer. But before that moment, which I consider to be 1.7 in our case, there was nothing. There hasn't been a universe yet. And because of this, of course, at least this comparison, and not according to the scenario that is currently being implemented, I am not in the right place. So, six months ago, it's long enough for people to get used to calculating to get used to how much, according to the euro, some tolar value is going to be completely enough. Even six months later, as we all support, when we have two money in the beginning, if I say so, after we move on to the euro, it's quite enough. For if we are honest with ourselves, we will switch over in our minds, in our heads, and in our shopping and investment, when we completely forget the tolars, we will no longer have them marked or in our physical form in our wallet, at least so far. Finally, it does not show that we underestimate our citizens and citizens, because we have already made a lot of currency changes through and through. This is why, above all, from the point of view of unnecessary costs, which, according to the Governor, are unlikely to occur, but also from this low probability, which can lead to billions of costs, it seems to leave that marking behind, the information marking four months before this half-year period when the course is not fixed, and I warn, even if it will change just for one mile, it will lead to changes in all prices. And whoever doesn't do this, or even makes a mistake, by chance a mistake for one decimal, i.e. for one cent, can cost between 200 and 300,000 dollars, which is absolutely too much a fine, so to avoid this, of course, I suggest that we trust the citizens, that they will know in the first half of the year to get used to what is waiting for them in the big bang, and then in the next half of the year to study or transfer money to the euro, and, of course, we support this amendment, which, as has already been said, in no way threatens those basic objectives for which the law is proposed and which, at the same time, seems to me worthy of support. This is as much as you can reduce inflation and especially people get used to transition, prepare and then, of course, facilitate the transition itself. For this reason, as it is said, I also propose to all others that this amendment be supported and then substantially improved and, above all, such a law, which will have significantly less potential costs for our economy and thus increase their competitive advantage, also support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you. Member Christian Janc has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you very much again. I think that what we are now saying in Article 1 is that the debate on the parent body was practically just this point. We have heard many debates of positive, negative, confirmation of one another, of another, of what is good, what is not good. First of all, we all meant that by law we wanted to protect the consumer in a way that, as soon as possible, transparently as possible, this transition from tolar to euro. That is why this law is somehow meant to be respected at some point. I believe that we Slovenians are rapidly applying to new currencies, that we are already doing what is right and that this problem for Slovenians will certainly not be great for the consumer. But it's only right to introduce it, prepare it, and do it. We have all seen the burden of the economy together. We are aware that we are talking about this a lot in Parliament, this is what the government is talking about, we are talking a lot about the competitiveness of the economy, and so on and so forth. And also what the opposition colleagues say, of course, follows and has certain arguments that it is not. But after a lengthy discussion, I think that several hours on the parent body and where some additional explanations have also been received, including the representative of the Bank of Slovenia. This is not anyone, it is someone who is over this misery, a fiscal course that spoke with high probability, but 100% of the guarantee no one can give, neither the government nor the Bank of Slovenia, nor anyone else. That's definitely it. I think colleague Lahovnik knows well, and I also believe that he knows that it is unlikely that this will happen, that this fixed course will remain. And of course this can cause certain problems, including certain additional costs. We must pour this on ourselves with pure wine so that we can no longer give it to ourselves. But I believe, once again, that the government, both the ministries and the economy and the finances, well "expected" what this means for the Slovenian economy, well identified all the possible consequences that this can have on the Slovenian economy, on competitiveness, on raising prices, etc. However, it is right that some of the European experiences that have had such a strange change from national currencies to the euro, where speculations were strong and also probably will be here, I hope that as little as possible, but not least here the consumer will also quickly find out who was raising prices in an unjustified way and will not go shopping or for some other guest service. So I think that the debate given by my mother's working body and the answers that we received both with the government representative and other representatives present in my mother's body has convinced me to some extent that this is and that it is drinking water and that this matter would be positive despite some concerns that may even cause certain additional costs to the economy, which would not be good for the Slovenian government, consumers and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u41	Comrade Lakhovnik, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u42	Exactly as my colleague Janc said; because we can't guarantee 100% probability, no one is making sense of our amendment. 100% probability exists when the course is fixed. And the course, according to Brussels information, will somehow be possible to fix at the end of June 2006. At that time, the known central quality will be complete and double labelling will be meaningful or will not be possible to change the course and there will be no additional costs for manufacturers, traders and as a result of the constant change in prices on the products. Exactly because there is no 100% probability, there is a risk and therefore our amendment makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you. We continue the debate. The next one has the word of his colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you very much. In the course of these discussions, there is still a great danger of price increases even after this period of information, so that this danger will not be reduced. I must say that those of you who speak like that are from these benches above all, that you want to make room so that prices can go up because you work in the interest of wholesalers. And what we want to prevent is that you want it not to be. It is quite clear that this measure will reduce the likelihood of a subsequent price rise, which is actually an experience from comparable countries that this has happened. I also have to tell you about the high cost of the economy in this labelling that this is unrealistic. This would be a real number if this marking were carried out by some external contractors, hired or students or anything. But this is about internal deployments. This only reduces some idle work or unspent working hours, and a lot of this work is done within working hours, by employees. I find these arguments completely unrealistic. Of course, this makes you consciously panic in public how unstable our tolar is. You're trying to stir up some anxiety and in every way achieve by the rule as bad as possible, the better for us. You've been using this rule for a long time and so forth. Now you no longer trust the Governor of the Bank, whom you have proposed and set up, and no one else in this state can trust from financial institutions. I don't know, I think that's completely unserious in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you. I call to the word of Ambassador Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State with fellow Members, distinguished visitors on the balcony! When businesses, economic companies, introduce policies or systems of quality, they like to introduce philosophy that the buyer or consumer is the king. With this law, which we are considering today, we would like to inform the consumer in good time and in good time that there would be no abuse of prices in the translation from our currency of Slovenian tolar into the euro. We record such cases, as has been said many times today, in the neighbouring countries where we went shopping. Italy, Austria and Germany as well. Clearly, information costs something. But this time I see that we have a headache, that companies have to invest in the correct information that they will provide to customers. Information is an essential element in the decision-making process or in this case also an essential element of control. If I try to simulate that today, 25.10.2005, we already have a dual price labelling system and we would use a one-year-old course, it is said, on 25.10.2004, I calculated that the error would be eight times ten to the minus four, that is to say 0.8. Now all those who run their lives more precisely than with a relative error of 0.8 mills would be affected in this case. Therefore, I do not see any problem if we support a time-wide double price labelling framework, even at a time when today we cannot say with a hundred percent probability that the exchange rate will be fixed. For this reason, I support the basic version of the text of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, Your Honor. So there's a lot of talk about the profession and the economy and the costs that the economy will have. I would ask another question here; what about consumers? What right do consumers have here? Can they be a factor in these matters? I think too little is taken into account that in trade at all when it comes to trade, in this area, consumers are an important factor and that it doesn't matter how consumers cut themselves here, what their status will be, whether someone will take them into account or not. Experience from the European Union shows, despite the fact that this is a Europe that we do not think is high, that everything is regulated there, it has been shown in some countries that it has simply been reclassified to euro. Many things happened, in Germany, that was a lot of things. And nowhere does it say that anything like this, or not just one to one, would be applied in Slovenia. And that's why it seems to me that if we start getting acquainted with the relationship between the two currencies, it won't be a bad thing. But I stopped by for something else. We even did science with what the vice governor said. I think that if I look from a statistical and mathematical point of view, perfectly correctly said, there's a great probability, that's the right expression, because 100% couldn't say, because things haven't happened yet. Only then can we say it is 100%, and even then it will not be 100% when the euro rate is fixed. Even then it won't be 100%, because it can come, I don't know, and some storm in the Gulf of Mexico is going to go wild, and the euro ratio is also going to go up against the dollar and, in general, against the currencies, it's going to start to change. So it's also not, and I think he said it very well when he got better, colleague Lahovnik, when he said it wasn't 100% and that's why their amendment made sense. Yes, he is, of course he makes sense, but that means, on the other hand, he's not the only one saving, he's not 100% that he's just one option. Here. No one tells you that you have no right, it is justified, but the government has chosen another path, which is also justified and is just as likely, as it is highly likely for your amendment. And I just want to tell you that your amendment isn't 100% either, of course you have the right to defend it, you have the right to look at it, but it's just as relative, and it's only very likely that you're right as it is for that other path. That's all I wanted to tell you and nothing else because there's always some dry gold sold here in this national council: our opinion is 100%, and that's the right one, and if you don't, then everything will be wrong and Slovenia will go "zugunde". It's not like that, there's only a high probability, but 100% is already seen, and then all we can do is be generals after battle. What we are not talking about today, we are talking about some prediction ahead of time, what would be good to do, what would be good for the country, and especially for consumers. This is about consumers, and I say that consumers have a right here too. And this is in the direction of protecting consumer rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Look, I support the government's proposal. Why? Because, above all, it wants to protect the consumer. The consumer is the one who is most sensitive, affected by everyone else around him. Why do we need to rediscover hot water today? If the countries that have adopted the euro in front of us have found that there have been distortions, why not set me up in time to try somewhere to protect this consumer, who is also the least protected and always subject to various manipulations at the end. Look, if we've been informed that a stable course is expected, I'm sure we have to believe those words. The course has been under way for a long time, and I am sure that experts have already done projections and if this is the opinion that there will be no major impact on the course, why not believe them. But there's something else I want to say. Much has been said about the costs that merchants will have. Remember years ago when these same traders changed prices not once a week, but once a month, but twice a day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you. To avoid all debates, colleagues and colleagues, the country of the Republic of Slovenia has a valid currency tolar. And we want to say with the amendments that the tolar is fixed and fixed in this currency, ours, the Slovenian euro will adapt as it does in Sweden, as it does in Great Britain and as it does in Denmark, because it still has its fixed currencies and the euro is adapting. And don't argue about it. We want a one-year course to be fixed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u53	My friend Barovic's time is up. Thank you. Dr. Lakhovnik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u54	There's a lot of deception, the humorous inserts on this side, but I'm going to try to explain it more substantively. Look, of course, it is about protecting consumers, because this is why the Law on Double Price Marking is starting to run one year from the end of June, at the end of June 2006, double price labelling. And I have also made it very clear to the government representatives that it is their task, we have a consumer protection office to connect with all consumer organisations, to carry out their task here, so that there will be no unjustified irritations arising because traders can try to make use of the currency exchange, we have talked about this. Indeed, consumer protection is a matter of this law. And of course, if this period is extended needlessly, in my opinion, by four, five months and if there are fluctuations, as possible, for a few more miles, there is a re-labelling of prices. And these are the additional costs that I have been talking about and, of course, once again for consumer protection, and it will be important that the period of the last 6 months of 2006 and, of course, the next period of the 6 months in 2007, and this is the task of the government to do its job again with other consumer organisations and to inform the public accordingly if there are unjustified incentives. Once again, we have a consumer protection office and a whole range of other consumer organisations and there are instruments to prevent this. Once again, in some European countries, virtually everyone where the euro has been introduced has faced these auctions. As we are aware of this, we know that this has taken place, it is the task and responsibility of the government to prevent this and therefore it has a range of instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you. Member Willi Rezman has been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u56	First, someone said the buyer is the king, in our case the king is the government, acting like you don't have to listen to arguments. Another time. Comparable countries that have been mentioned have not enormously raised inflation by 0.2% to 0.3% when the currency is replaced, but, according to Almunia, Commissioner for Monetary Affairs of the European Union. And that, because of the seasonal rise in prices. Third time. Our amendment 100% prevents the emergence of a billion 240 million tolars of additional costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you. He's got a word. Comrade Jerovšek, you have no word; I warn you only to be silent during the meeting and listen to your colleagues, you have no word. Dr. Slavinec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u58	I signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u59	Comrade Slavinac, allow me just a second, please. Comrade Jerovšek, if you want to sign up for the debate, raise your hand so that I can see you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u60	I checked in earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u61	When I give you my word, you'll speak no sooner. Dr. Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll just get on with it sooner. So, costs, maybe they won't be a billion 240 million, but if traders find themselves different and do what they do in their free time, but it will be in the work done and definitely if there are even half the costs, they will be. It is primarily to avoid unnecessary costs. So as bad as possible, the better for us, in this case, of course, we'd be quiet. And do it your way and it'll get worse, it'll be worse by half a billion, it'll be worse by one billion, maybe a billion and a quarter. Another danger that will also make it worse. I'm going to quote a statement from my colleague Bojan Starman's committee, who wanted to point out that, on March 1st, we're going to go into a relationship where, when people think about what to do with prices, a lot or most of us, whether we're practically in a market economy, we're going to use this moment, or we're going to think it's a good time to change prices. This will stimulate and cause unexpected inflation in March, April and May, which can effectively prevent the introduction of the euro, because we will find that we do not meet these convergence criteria. This is one of the factors I'd like to point out, I hope he's taken into account. Everywhere happens, we will have this element just three months earlier, because we are alone, only we go to the price label three months before the fixed course. I think it's clear from this quote that it's not just a billion, plus, minus how many traders are going to find themselves, but also a major risk of rising inflation earlier. Of course, this threat even accepts the euro, then we argue here, we talk about unnecessary things at all. And I don't know why we are so stubborn, even more so, because only the Ministry of Finance from all over the government has advocated this proposal. And since, at the outset, the debate on the Committee also showed that optional labelling seems four months before 1.7.2006 to be an essential, significantly better solution and that we give our economy the opportunity to avoid unnecessary costs. And it's not on the consumer's account, it's in their best interest. Because they would be too stupid if they didn't realize that all the costs would ultimately be charged to consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you. The word is Christian Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you very much, again. Look, we talk so much about these costs, like a billion two hundred. As we calculated, no one comments. But this is the number that we got, it's just the number that's calculated by what it was, that it worked out to say that, and so we wave long and wide, about this billion two hundred. I think it's too much when we're talking about the numbers of a billion two hundred that he doesn't even drink it, I'm not going to say [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u65	Comrade Janc, time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u66	and I hope that, of course, it will be substantially, substantially smaller. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u67	I call to the word of the Member of Jerovsk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Look, I like to believe what the Members say, but in this case, when colleague Lahovnik says it's about protecting consumers, of course, I can't believe him. Rather, I rhetorically ask him whether a change had taken place in their party with the Congress, and they had a catharsis that they were suddenly on the side of a consumer, a small person. They speak as Vice Governor of LDS because he was elected. I don't believe that. For most of the Group of Members, I am so assured internally that their President is no less exalted. Did you do some catharsis? Almost no one believes it. And this is not in the role of consumer protection. What you're saying today, what you're investing, is in the form of protecting the profits of wholesalers. So, you did the same thing, in relation to a small man, when he was the law on trade, opening time and so on. You haven't changed your mind since. But I would be happy and it would be appropriate to change them so that they could actually understand the problems of a young person. Therefore, once again, the early double marking is certainly in the protection of consumers; you are contesting this. The marking after the euro has already been introduced is only in the function of nostalgia after the tolar. This has a certain function, but it will no longer prevent irritation. And your point is that traders could then account for extra profits by raising prices; they probably promised you something on that account, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u69	Comrade Lahovnik, I allow you a replica, even though you were not appointed, because my colleague Jerovšek was exaggerating. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u70	I'd like to give you a nice explanation. This is why even after this period, after 1.1.2007, double price labelling is important - it is not cosmetics, because it is based on the tolar comparison that consumers will be able to see whether there has been irritation or not. It is therefore important that even after the euro is introduced, for example, double labelling has entered into force. And now I have kindly explained to you the contents. The other things you were talking about, I didn't understand, so I can't replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u71	We continue the debate. Please stick to the content of the amendment currently under discussion. Member Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I wasn't going to sign up for this discussion, but given what I'm saying, I'm going to use my favorite expression, the nonsense that's been said, I have to say three things. I think that the Members of this Parliament, who will eventually adopt this law, and the government, we all intend to protect, together with the economy, of course, the consumer. And please, for the first time, all the calculations and analyses have been made by the government, I have numbers here, I can quote them to you, so these 1.2 billion, 7.1 billion and so on, someone hasn't done it over the finger, but the government, which is also the proponent of this law, has done it. However, naive is anyone who today is talking about protecting the consumer and not allowing or naive to pay the final price of the same consumer that we are taking today. That's why it's important. Second, we fight or argue about four months from 16 months. We are discussing the period of information labelling from March to June or July. So, we are talking about this period where, in fact, the euro rate is not likely to be fixed, it will not be fixed and I don't know what else, but after July it is supposed to be and it is twelve months that period. So once again, in Slovenia, consumers - and now I'm talking about us consumers - we've already given this school twice in the last 15 years, we have some experience, and I think that someone wouldn't bring us around, 12 months for this adjustment, to "engage" these things, I think, not underestimate us, is enough that we can do these things. And another when we're talking about costs. That's why my criticism flew to the government. For this pay phone from these benches, government ones, I've been hearing for six months about car stickers, about the cost saved. These are the categories we're talking about today, the categories of labels. These are the categories, but when it doesn't come out of the money, from the pocket of the budget, you can do whatever you want because someone else will give this money, but in the end, that money is from all of us, if we talk about it. And for the stickers. Yeah, we saved up the stickers, but with the license plate, we paid three times back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. The first thing I have to say is, because I'm listening here yesterday and today some people, I could say notorious lies, is not a proposal that only the Ministry of Finance would advocate, as Dr. Slavinac said. We have before us a proposal from the government and here representatives of the Ministry of Economy who are defending it. But that's what I'm saying, because Mr. Squeakl and Dr. Slavinec are repeating some lies that they don't. The second is about double labelling. Today, in all of this, techniques, to talk about how there will be errors between converted to euros and Slovenian tolars, when computers do this, to say that it will cost billions and similar things, of course, I think it is completely pointless. If someone wants to make a living doing so and thus raises prices, he will likely experience the rejection of such goods by the buyers. However, you already have prices marked in euro in your accessions, members. I was in Budapest three days ago, I looked at a series of articles in the store, although I don't know when Hungary will take over the euro, but I think it's not yet - Dr. Lahovnik smiles so cheerfully here to everyone who doesn't speak like him - but half of the articles are already marked in euros. They say those who want to be advanced do not need any law, but they do so themselves by getting the customers to get as close as possible and thus convince them to buy their articles. Unfortunately, we in this country must do so by law and thus protect the consumer. Talking about these endless billions, as my colleague Kumer says, is completely pointless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u75	It's a replica of Comrade Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Now I have to take the paper and read it, because obviously some things need to be done, some people don't learn or read things back. 5.7. and please, Mr. Sok, you are now listening. If we started to label, I quote, "if we started to mark prices in euros from 1 July 2006 and not 1 March 2006, as envisaged in the proposal for a double labelling law, we could save 2.4 billion tolars or about 20% of the total cost of double labelling, which would total 12 million tolars. This was also agreed by the v.d. the Director of the Internal Market Directorate, not the Ministry of Economy, Mr Peter Puhan, who said that the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development had calculated to reduce the cost of companies having a main activity by 1.2 billion tolars by double-labelling. If we include companies that do not have trade for the main activity, but are doing this activity, we would soon come to the number 2 and more billion tolars," said a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, saying the Ministry, which is an integral part of this government. And please don't tell me we're making up, lying, insinuating and so on. These are reliable data that came from the applicant. And nothing else. And we're not talking about anything else. And if the government is always saying that we have to be cost-effective, we are just reminding these four months before July 2006 that we should be cost-effective if we can. And that it is also in the interests of the consumer that we behave in a cost-effective manner. That at the end of this price the consumer will not pay through the price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you for explaining. I'm giving the word to Dr. Lahar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I would also like to explain something to some Members, especially the SDS here, who are concerned about the interests of consumers. The SDS Executive Committee supported a uniform tax rate. A third of the consumption is taxed at a lower rate of 8 and a half percent value added tax. It is food, book, medicine, tourist services, utilities, housing services, a whole range of other services, including funeral services by the way, and you care about all services including food. And you will speak here to defend the interests of consumers. You who are well aware that the standard of living in this case will be severely reduced for Slovenian consumers. You will now tell us who defends the interests of Slovenian consumers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u79	Comrade Lakhovnik, we are not talking about the SDS programme today, so please stick to the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I am trying to explain that through this amendment we are only trying to prevent the economic damage that we are talking about, the government itself, in our potential materials. However, when we talk about consumer protection, there is a whole range of other instruments. Once again, there is a Consumer Protection Office, non-governmental organisations that can point to the possible misconduct of individual producers. There is a market, competition and there are concepts such as income elasticity of demand, price elasticity of demand. That's what you need to talk about if you want. And there is, of course, a way of taxing different articles, and this can also be talked about when we talk about consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you. The last one reported so far is a Magnificent Member. Squeak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u82	Look, first of all, I'm going to comment on what you said yourself. It is not just the SDS Executive Board programme or its decision. In particular, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which proposed this law, said on 15 July that the framework for the operation of Slovenian companies with changes in the tax system would change significantly in 2006. This is not only something the SDS Executive Committee said, although I do not know exactly why they said it, because I do not know exactly what New Slovenia says, but the government accepted it on July 15th. That is why we are particularly concerned that the euro takeover programme can be implemented in its entirety. The programme envisaged some federal takeover of the euro. We are afraid, mainly because of major problems in changing the tax system and too much public spending, that this will not happen. And this is what we want to stress here today, and obviously there is no interest in supporting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you. My colleague Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u84	My friend Lakhovnik here acts like an all-round smart guy. This is at the level of what he said right after he abdicated as an economic minister that he did not see in Slovenia a man who could lead an economic ministry. That's what you said, and that's how you do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u85	Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u86	And that's the highness. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u87	Comrade Jerovšek, I will interrupt you if you do not stick to the content of the proposed amendment. Please note that the Liberal Democracy Club has run out of time and I've turned off the microphone and you're talking to yourself. In view of the fact that there is no further declaration of expression, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also made a statement. Here you go, within the time allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. See, the proposer of this law is not a single ministry, but a government of the Republic of Slovenia. As a proponent, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has given due consideration to all arguments before adopting a decision to initiate the obligation to double price labelling in Tolars and Euros 1.3.2006. It also took into account and, in particular, the recommendations made by the European Commission, which suggest that if a country reintroduced the euro, it would do slightly differently than it did. The practice of these countries also shows that prices increased significantly at the time of the introduction of the euro. For these reasons, the Commission does not impose but recommends the introduction of double labelling as soon as possible. Speaking of costs, it should be made clear that in the first place the costs recorded in these studies relate to, in the first place, taking over the euro. And only in a very small part on double price labelling, because today it turns out to be the main cost of double price labelling. We've also heard of weekly swings and exchange rates. We have a central parity course, which is the exchange rate set at Slovenia's entry into ERM2, so it is clear that the possibility of changing the course is only at the moment of fixed acquisition, i.e. only once. As far as consumer protection offices are concerned, we will also monitor market developments through the Office, but it is important to be aware that regulated prices are only 12%. At all other prices, the Consumer Protection Office and the Ministry of Economy can only warn. What do I think is the key to this whole thing? The key to this, with all due respect, is that despite the assumption that it is true, there is no guarantee that the course will not change when it is fixed. However, it should be borne in mind that there is also no guarantee that the EU Council will set a fixed rate by July. This could happen in November or December. What about in this case? In this case, the Republic of Slovenia will face an extremely short pre-accession period, which would in fact destroy the purpose of this law and we all have to ask ourselves together what situation we will put the Slovenian consumer in in this case. For these reasons, we believe that the proposed legislation is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate on the first article and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members. My friend Bajc, allow me to lead the session. I hereby conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members and the amendment of the same content of the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament. However, I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members. In doing so, I would like to inform you that time has passed for the debate by the Slovenian National Party and the Slovenian People's Party, DeSUS has another 23 seconds and the Liberal Democracy Club has one second. Who wants a word? Nobody. I hereby conclude the debate on Article 6. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Nobody. This concludes the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, or no later than 20 hours and 46 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, a second proposal for a law on amendments to the hospitality law. I would like to warn you that the time is set for a debate of 45 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you very much. It's a short presentation. What do we want with this marriage? By means of this law, we want in particular to eliminate the abuse of catering activities by companies, to encourage the development of entrepreneurship, which should also contribute to the abolition of the requirement for the prescribed minimum level of professional education of persons engaged in catering activities, to strengthen the integration of the capacity of private lenders into the hospitality offer and thus to reduce the scope of the grey economy. The first important novelty is to draw on the third indent of the applicable law, which allowed abuses to occur in the course of hospitality activities by associations. By setting up various companies with the actual purpose of hosting, or even by transforming regular catering activities into a virtual activity of associations, clubs and the like, these companies that carry out a hospitality activity or operate openly on the market shall avoid meeting the conditions applicable otherwise to the performance of the hospitality activity. This constitutes gross unfair competition for in-house guests who have to comply with all the restrictions and conditions laid down in their activities. This phenomenon has taken on an alarming and totally unacceptable scale in individual areas. By deleting this Article, the law will no longer have the possibility of such abuses. It is entirely unjustified to fear that the proposed amendment will also affect tourism, cultural, firefighting and similar societies, which are forced to raise funds for their existence by carrying out their hospitality activities. This solution also has nothing to do with the operation of mountain stands, since mountain houses are already defined by law as catering establishments and are not disputed by associations. Another important novelty is the drawing-up of the requirement that the minimum level of professional education of persons engaged in catering activities be met for the performance of the catering activity. The deletion of this requirement is mainly subject to opposition and criticism from both chambers, but in our view they are not justified. Thus, our position is based on the belief that the care for the employment of adequately qualified staff in the economy is the responsibility of entrepreneurs, not the regulation of the state. Those individuals who are willing to invest their own resources in activities, while taking over all business risks for such a decision, must not impose additional conditions. This proposal is totally unjustifiable to interpret as a grading of guest professions, as their importance and reputation cannot be increased by the provision of minimum professional qualifications. This profession can be given difficulty only by an economy which recognises adequately qualified personnel as a fundamental condition for performing on the market. In doing so, professional and entrepreneurial competence, which also includes the ability to attract well-trained workers in the work process, is much more important for the successful development of entrepreneurship than formal minimum professional qualifications. Nor is it possible to avoid the fact that the regulation of professions by the State is completely contrary to the guidelines on the provision of free movement of goods and services, which Brussels has repeatedly pointed out. For the European Community countries regulate professions only in particularly justified cases, which are certainly not the same as catering professions. However, the third important amendment is a proposal concerning the management of catering activities in co-operators, which brings two important innovations, and the possibility of managing this activity is also extended to administrative persons. The remaining changes and additions to the law are not substantively novel and are particularly important for improving the management of administrative procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u91	Your time is up. Thank you for paying attention. In doing so, I inform you that the government itself has announced only five minutes of the introductory explanation. We are moving on to a presentation of the report of the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. Chairman of the Fairi Horvat Committee, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. All due respect! The Committee on the Economy, as the parent working body at its 7th meeting on 12.10., considered a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. The Committee took note of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, the comments of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State for Small Economic Affairs and Tourism, including the proposals for amendments to the Committee. The Committee has adopted amendments on the basis of the opinion of the Legal Service, and these amendments are included in the amended law you have before you. The most debates and also various or conflicting opinions, as already mentioned before me by the State Secretary, were, in a provision which removes, I state, the conditions for the minimum professional education of persons who perform work in catering activities are set out in Article 5, paragraph 9, of the law in force so far. In this provision, both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and the Commission of the Council of State objected. The question of such a solution from a systemic point of view was also raised by the legislature of the National Assembly. Regardless of the comments made and at times a very controversial debate was adopted by the Committee despite objections by a majority of votes in favour of the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Member Daniel Krivec has the floor to present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. The well-respected choir! The proposed amendments and additions to the Hostages Act regulate the inconsistencies and obstacles that have emerged in the existing law. By amending and supplementing the catering law in 1999, certain solutions were introduced into the basic law adopted in 1995 which, in other words, contributed to increasing the orderliness of this area and simplifying the conditions for hosting activities. However, the shortcomings of the law have also been demonstrated as, for example, not a clear provision in Article 3, which provides for exceptions to the provision of catering services. The purpose of this provision was to exclude from the law the provision of accommodation and food services in hospitals, schools and the like, as well as in societies which occasionally organise catering services for their members on a non-profit basis. While the vast majority of societies respect the provisions of the law on hospitality and the law on societies, individual societies have begun to make grave use of the provisions of Article 3, paragraph 1, of the law. By setting up various companies with a view to carrying out a catering activity or even by transforming regular catering activities into a virtual activity of associations, clubs and the like, these companies actually performing a hospitality activity shall avoid meeting the conditions applicable to the performance of the hospitality activity. This represents unfair competition for the guests. By deleting this article, the law will no longer be open to such abuses. The fear that tourism, cultural, firefighting and similar societies will be affected by the proposed amendment is over. These companies, in so far as they have catering facilities, already comply with the conditions laid down. In addition, the proposed amendment relates only to the carrying out of activities in permanent establishments, while the necessary additional funds are generally provided by the companies by organising the occasional hosting offer at the events. This means that companies will also be able to carry out this activity in the future under the condition that they have an activity listed in their basic act and in compliance with the minimum conditions of host legislation. Another novelty is the deletion of the requirement that the minimum level of professional education of persons performing work in catering activities be met in order to carry out the catering activity. While the State must promote the highest possible level of vocational education in this area through various measures, it must be borne in mind that achieving this objective is the responsibility of the entrepreneur himself. Therefore, it must not be restricted. The second reason for this proposal is that the regulation of the profession by the State is completely contrary to the guidelines on the provision of free movement of services, which has been pointed out several times also within the competent working bodies of the European Commission. European Community countries regulate professions only exceptionally, in particularly justified cases such as do not represent guest professions. In spite of the relatively modest educational conditions in the restaurant, it was not observed that this would result in neglect or a decline in the quality of services, which is why it is not expected that the level of catering services would deteriorate in smaller guest facilities after the application of this proposal. Guests who invest large amounts of their own in the activity shall pay particular attention to the quality of the service from their own economic interest. For this reason, it is entirely unjustified to interpret this proposal as a grading of guest professions, as their importance and reputation cannot be increased by citing professional qualifications in the Regulation. In doing so, I would like to point out that the legal provision that we are now terminating has already fulfilled the approval of the Chamber of Commerce on a certain monthly course. Therefore, if a certain monthly course is the equivalent of the guest education that others acquire at a three-year or four-year guest school programme, then it is the underestimation of the guest profession, not the deletion of this point in the article. With these additions, we also have an impact on the increase in tourism and entrepreneurship in the area of hospitality. The third amendment is the proposal to carry out a hospitality activity with conciliators. For reasons of clarity, the article is fully recast and brings important news. The possibility of carrying out this activity extends also to legal persons, and the proposal for a law also explicitly announces in practice the already established solution that owners of dwellings who themselves do not wish to pursue the activities of housing of these dwellings on the basis of a lease contract shall surrender to a natural or legal person. Due to the advantages brought by the amendment of the hospitality law, we will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, MEP Slavinec, colleague Petek please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u96	Nice greetings to all colleagues, colleagues, representatives and representatives of the Ministry. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that certain amendments to the hospitality law are necessary, welcome and supported. At the parliamentary club, we attach to the opinion of the bill-maker that there is a need to eliminate abuses and irregularities in the performance of hospitality activities in societies. It is also welcome to focus on speeding up the integration of private capacity into the hospitality offer and to reduce the scope of the grey economy. In LDS, we support the reduction or deregulation of procedures in the implementation of this activity, and in principle we support liberalisation in the field of hospitality and tourism. Unfortunately, however, in our opinion, the proposaler, in the third article of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Custodian Act, by which he deleted the fifth point of Article 9 of the current law, is prejudiced too severely into one of the conditions for the exercise of hospitality. By deleting the provision on the minimum level of professional education required for the performance of the inn activities, it is possible to establish and carry out activities for all types of inn facilities, irrespective of the scope and type of activity it carries out. We believe that the decision to delete the minimum level of vocational education should be more selective in order to allow certain establishments to do so. Most of the more demanding and tourist offer should also ensure the employment of adequately trained staff. With the proposal to amend the law in the restaurant, the government has completely ignored the consequences that the law could have passed on to other business areas. The so-called deregulation and liberalisation in this case will encourage the expectations of other business groups that will require a similar facilitation of the conditions for carrying out their activities. Such a trend in thinking would, of course, also lead to problems in the system of vocational and other education, as the motivation for education in particular areas would be reduced, thus also jeopardising the functioning of certain schools. It would also over time completely undermine Slovenia's tourism development goals, as one of the bearable development sectors, which has to compete with the quality of its services on the global market. The deletion of the requirement for a minimum level of professional education is opposed by both the Chamber of Commerce, the Commission for Small Economy and Tourism in the State Council, and the Association for Tourism and Hospitality in the Chamber of Commerce. For the reasons described above, the opinion of these institutions and bodies is also joined by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, which will therefore oppose the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Ambassador Franz Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. We support the draft law and most of the provisions in the Social Democrats Group. However, we have a reserve up to the provision of Article 3 of the draft law, which provides for the deletion of Article 5 of the current law, which means the complete abandonment of the conditions for the minimum professional education of persons working in catering activities. We believe that such a solution is too radical and will have negative consequences, particularly on quality and on education in this area. Let me just give you a few arguments. First time. The strategy of tourism in Slovenia relies on quality and not on mass. However, the condition for quality is of course knowledge. Another time. Guest tourist companies and areas are already facing the problem of lack of quality staff, both in the guest tourist operation and in management. Third time. The suspension of the minimum professional education requirement will certainly have a negative impact on guest tourism education, which is a condition for providing quality professional staff for guest tourism activities. Fourth time. According to our assessment, it is unrealistic to expect that the market will only regulate professional education for hospitality and tourism. Fifth. Quality, professionally educated guest tourists are in the interest of consumer protection, tourists and ensuring the health integrity of guest services. Six. Educated and creative guest tourist workers are a great comparative advantage of Slovenian tourism. The proposed marriage solution is even more surprising because in the material prepared by this same ministry, the Directorate for Tourism, for the special meeting of the Committee on the Economy, which we had last week in Laska and where we considered as a central point in the development of tourism in Slovenia, it places great emphasis on professional staff, human resources, education, promotion of guest professions, awareness and education of the youngest and the like. And let me finish. I believe that the current law in article 10 in the last paragraph gives a great deal of opportunity for the Minister responsible for tourism to lay down more detailed conditions for professional requirements and thus to mitigate or avoid the risks it has identified as the reason for this proposal, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you. Martin Mikolič has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u100	Well welcomed, Mr Vice President, representatives of the government and distinguished colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party will support changes and additions to the law on hospitality. It is logical, but we can also say that it is time to draw on the existing law Article 3, which speaks of the fact that this law does not regulate the provision of food services, for example in hospitals, schools and kindergartens and so on, as well as in societies that organise catering services for their members on a non-profit basis. The provision was not clear enough, and so far it has been misused. We know that different societies have been established and their actual purpose has been to carry out the hospitality activities. It has also transformed a number of regular guest activities, virtual activities of associations, clubs and the like. Of course, all of this with a view to avoiding the conditions applicable to catering activities. Surely this is unfair competition for guests who must respect all the rules and restrictions in the performance of their activities. Of course, it is important, with which we also agree in the New Slovenia Group, that individual societies will be able to provide for the performance of their basic activities in the future by organising an occasional guest offer at the events. The deletion of Article 3 is therefore not related to the exercise of hospitality activities at these events, so if they have this activity listed in their basic act, while meeting the minimum conditions laid down in the hospitality legislation, the companies will be able to carry out this activity themselves. In order to relax the entrepreneurship initiative, the existing law requires that the conditions for the performance of the catering activity be met with regard to the minimum level of professional education of persons performing work in catering activities. Despite the extensive discussion at the home work body and the comments of the Chamber of Commerce and Economic Affairs, in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it must also be a firm regulator for the performance of guest activities in respect of staff. And that it is the task of management to attract the appropriate staff in the work process. It is inappropriate for individuals who are willing to invest in the activity and also to take a business risk to be subject to additional conditions. Surely only these will pay the highest attention to the quality of services, due to their own economic interest. I must also mention the warning from Brussels that we are restricting the free movement of services through an existing requirement. We also support the expansion of catering activities in our parliamentary group to legal entities, which will certainly have an impact on the expansion of the offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Member Christian Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support these changes in the law because we believe they are necessary and it is high time for them to come. The three main solutions to the law that we have heard the last time, however, are deleted; the deletion of Article 3 of the current law, which is intended to remedy irregularities in the performance of the hospitality offer in societies and the second deletion of the requirement regarding the minimum level of education of persons engaged in catering activities. From here there would certainly be a lot of debate on the working body, why this deletion, but I think that in the end it would prevail over the fact that this area of course has specific problems, such or different natures, and that the closure of such opportunities would be unacceptable for the Slovenian tourist country. Thirdly, conjugalism also extends to legal persons because it offers more opportunities to organise the offer of private rooms. The amendments and additions to the hospitality law in the parliamentary group, as I said before, are supported in the light of the incentives and enhancement of the entrepreneurial initiative and the expansion of activities that are very important both in the tourist areas and in the rural areas as a source of new jobs and earnings. Changes are also needed from the point of view of company regulation. We are also aware of the need to root out measures in tax legislation and to mitigate unnecessary and excessive bureaucratic, technical and spatial regulatory procedures that relate both to the provision of guest services and to the provision of housing and other activities of the small economy. This will only remove the stagnation that has taken place in recent years in the development of a small economy and stimulate economic growth in this area. We also believe that the changes concerning societies need to be addressed and adopted in connection with the urgent amendments to certain provisions of the social law, only by eliminating irregularities and allowing us to continue to play this legislation, which we have been alerted to for many years, both by representatives of societies and by guests who have suffered a lot of damage from unfair competition. In our party, we support the functioning of societies and we believe that without them, modern society cannot work, so it is necessary to make order in this area while at the same time eliminating unnecessary bureaucracy and obstacles to the more effective functioning of small societies and to the development of crafts and entrepreneurship. We have been discussing these matters and abuses of administrative hospitality offers as activities in societies and unfair competition of registered guest establishments in our country for many, many years. For all of this, we are convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that this is a step forward for this activity and that this activity will also be able to become even more active in this Slovenian space and thus bring additional economic growth, especially what seems to me to be even more important, new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you. The following are the views of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Comrade Bostian Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The basic objectives of the law, which is set before us to remedy irregularities in the performance of catering activities by societies, simplify the conditions for obtaining a business permit and thus encourage the development of entrepreneurship, which should also contribute to the abolition of the requirement for a minimum level of education. And I'm gonna stop at these two points. In the Slovenian National Party, we find it totally unacceptable that companies should be deprived of any kind of property, and let us give them the nickname "privilegedness", as the government calls them. The fact that it is an unfair competition by societies is also totally unfounded, and if I look only at the largest society in the Republic of Slovenia, it is a pension society. How will you tell them that you have denied them certain privileges, but when this is a permanent gathering, I will say, people, pensioners, where they can have fun only at their affordable prices, if you say that it is unfair competition against other guest establishments and restaurants. Please tell me how, do you know anyone or any young people, as well as possibly a couple in love, who would go to a pensioner's bar and thus compete with any other more orderly restaurant if we know that, above all, the buffets of these societies are modestly arranged or according to their abilities? I also believe that you did not think that the locals of individual societies would be included in the title that you call care, perhaps by providing for those establishments operating within certain homes, schools or anything else. As regards the reduction or abolition of the minimum level of education required, I will say, in order to open up a particular inn, I must say that we are fully on the side of those who strongly oppose it in the Slovenian National Party. Nor will it stimulate the development of catering activities and reduce redundancies, as black work is previously due to high taxes and contributions and increasing financial and administrative obligations. Appropriate education in the restaurant is necessary both for the protection of guests as well as for healthy and safe nutrition and, finally, for the protection of consumers. It is not surprising, therefore, that the hosts have resisted this measure, at least to the vague and incomprehensible measure of the government, because, as long as such a law enters into force, anyone who has little desire will literally open up a restaurant with a lot of money. And when you wrote down that social establishments represent unfair competition. Is it not exactly unprofessional and unprecise service, poor food, and a number of eaters who are not recorded in the correct Slovenian language, exactly the reason for such unfair competition? We will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you. The following is a presentation of DeSUS’s position. Comrade Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u106	The current situation in the industry and the great developmental possibilities are probably also the ambitions we have in this area, which led the proposer to draw up such a proposal for a law for us. The situation is such that it speaks of a very large number of economic operators in this area. It tells us that it is quite weak or at least too weak a quality offer. Weak or inadequate is the structure of the offer in the guest and tourist areas and the supply of quality labour is also very weak. These are facts that the applicant also identifies in his own writing. In short, it is a matter of finding out that the industry is somehow at a standstill and that it wants to be given an additional incentive that would mean faster development. And because it is a labour intensive industry, probably faster employment, more jobs and so on. But the essence of all that has been said by the proposer is that the quality and structure of the offer whisper. In the DeSUS Group, we support part of the proposed measures or part of the proposed legislative amendment. We are in favour of eliminating unnecessary unfair competition, in order to significantly raise the quality of services in this area and to achieve development ambitions or potentials. However, we also reject that part of the proposals and the argument that there is a need to remove the minimum conditions that speak of education in this area. The objectives are good, the way to achieve the goal or measures, and some instruments for that, we do not think is appropriate. If the aim of the law is to raise the quality and promote that part of the guest sector, which is linked precisely to quality, then I wonder how we imagine raising quality by abolishing education. It just doesn't work out. In all the documents, we write down how to bet on everything, on education, and in this case again, as we have done before, we are disassociating education and thus those institutions that stand for this education. It seems that entrepreneurship is now the first and only goal and that entrepreneurship is enough for all of us; everything else has thus become ballast. If this is philosophy, then we must say that we do not support this philosophy. We estimate that there is a great potential for deterioration of quality, that the possibility of consumer protection being worse, that the consequences for development will also be negative, and we fear that this will also mean a great deal of emphasis on our education system, particularly in the area we are talking about. In fact, the principles outlined by the applicant only follow one principle, namely the principle of strengthening entrepreneurship. Second and third principles, consumer protection and non-discrimination, and we are not following this principle. On the contrary, a discriminatory relationship is being created between those who need to receive professional education for their activities and those who do not think they need to do so, although according to the content of this activity, chefs and other innkeepers should only be professionally qualified. The argument that it must not be interpreted in any way by those who have their own resources to invest and take risks for them does not, of course, hold back. In other areas too, individual entrepreneurs and companies invest their resources. They are at risk on the market like everyone else, but we are still setting them a minimum level of education. And because of what we have listed now and because of this, because of the failure to take account of the warnings that have come from the economy is the position of the DeSUS Group of Members that we do not support or oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since there has been no discussion on the articles on the proposed amendment to the Act, I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday 28 October 2005 following the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the employment law and amendments to the foreign employment law. In doing so, I remind you that the debate is scheduled to take place for 50 minutes. The draft law was translated into consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mag. Janez Drobnič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u108	Dear Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia! In Slovenia, with the applicable law on employment and work of foreigners, which began to apply from 1 January 2001 we managed to regulate all forms of work of foreigners under one law. The law is adapted to the situation in the Slovenian labour market, takes into account the fundamental principles of international migration regulation and is already in line with EU legislation. The aim of the amendments to the law you have under consideration is therefore to remedy all those shortcomings that have been detected since the law was enacted, i.e. since 1 January 2001. Then define the criteria or restrictions for obtaining a work permit more clearly and avoid abuse where the law in force allows for confusion or inadequacy. Amendments and amendments to the law are the result of several monthly exchanges of opinions and the search for the best solutions with operators and users of the law, including through analyses to support the proposed amendments and additions. If I short-circuit these changes, I can say the following; the proposal for a new law provides for one annual residence in Slovenia to obtain a work permit for self-employed foreigners. Foreigners shall obtain a work permit under the applicable law only on the basis of an entry into the register of individual independent entrepreneurs. In this way they also obtain a residence permit. From 2002 to 2004, the number of self-employed foreigners with a work permit increased by one year from 499 to 573. This year, however, the current work permit for one year had already 970 foreigners. The bill introduces the possibility of additional education for both foreign and Slovenian workers in Slovenian companies in cases where the Slovenian company is capital or business-related to a foreign society, which was an economic initiative, which we considered to be good, to expand and increase the impact of the Slovenian economy. Next reason. In the case of the transfer of services by posted or posted workers or the movement of persons within associations, it introduces a prior one-year employment of a foreigner to employers who travels to Slovenia in accordance with the policy of the European Union in negotiations under the World Trade Organisation for the provision of services to third-country companies. Next news. In the case of seasonal work of foreigners, it provides the possibility of employment immediately after the end of seasonal work and shortens the interim suspension for obtaining work permits for seasonal work in construction, giving employers the opportunity to hire a foreigner they know. The following novelty limits the number of representatives per representative in companies to independent entrepreneurs who employ ten or fewer workers, determines the duration of the 2 year permit and the conditions for re-issue, which prevents employers from being abused when they appoint a large number of agents, often without adequate education. After years, the number of representatives increased significantly from 766 at the end of 2001, 970 at the end of 2002 and 1176 at the end of 2003 to 1863 at the end of September 2005. The amendments and additions to the law are further followed by harmonisation of the sub-legislative acts by which we will simplify the procedures, reduce the number of evidence and at the same time ensure that all the necessary conditions for issuing a work permit are checked. In preparing the content, we have tried to take the best possible account of the economic proposals. At the time of the creation of the bill a number of interviews and coordinations were held with the social partners, with the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia, such as the law enforcement and the Labour Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. The latter believes that the proposed amendments will contribute to reducing the abuse of the law to a large extent. The law also addressed the Economic Social Council and also supported the solutions presented. Only a few editorial comments were made by the Legal Service, which meant an improvement in the application and understanding of the law. The Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee adopted the law at the meeting without comment. And in this context, honourable Members and Members, there is a law amending and supplementing the law on the employment and work of foreigners today before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Matjaž Hana, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u110	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues. At its ninth regular meeting on 6.10.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled addressed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the employment and work of foreigners, a second consideration submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer and the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Marjetko Cotman, as well as representatives of the legislative services of Adrian Hribar Milič and representatives of interested organisations, participated in the work of the committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect and made comments to Articles 1, 6, 8 and 9, to the addresses and to Articles 14a, 14b. Article 8 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 is replaced by the following: Qualified applicants have not tabled amendments to the draft law and, on the basis of a legislative opinion, amendments to the Committee's amendments have been prepared. In accordance with Rules 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the draft law and the proposed amendments to the amendments to the Committee. Ms Marjetka Cotman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, provided an additional explanation on the individual articles of the bill. It stressed that the basic objective of the law is to amend or supplement certain areas of the law, which have proved to be insufficiently defined in the current practice of its implementation within the meaning of criteria or restrictions, are unclear for users or allowing abuse of the law. The current law on the employment of foreigners began to apply 1.1.2001 and fully regulated all forms of work of foreigners under one law. It has made it possible to provide legal clarity on the conditions and possibilities for employment and work of foreigners, as well as transparency over the situation in this area over a period of time. It is adapted to the situation in the Slovenian labour market, takes into account the fundamental principles of international migration arrangements and is in line with European Union legislation. Some of the shortcomings that they want to address in this law have also been detected in the implementation of the law. These relate mainly to the area of self-employment, where the applicable law allows the issue of work permits for foreigners on the basis of the entry into the register of independent entrepreneurs, without the same foreigner ever working and staying in Slovenia. Secondly, problems in obtaining work permits for additional education, as the current law of the Institute does not know additional education; and, thirdly, for issuing work permits for the representation of companies and for the exploitation of an existing law that does not limit the number of representatives of foreigners. Without discussion, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons adopted its amendments to Articles 1, 6, 9, 15 and 16. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the individual articles of the law and adopted all the articles. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you for the report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. The passage will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u112	Mr. Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With the adoption of the European acquis and the accession of the 10, the situation in the labour market has changed so that the restrictions adopted by individual members of the European Union do not fully meet the expectations and promises of free movement of people in both directions, and thus ten are in a worse position than fifteen. Nor have there been predictions of great pressure on the Western European labour market. Interest is limited only to individual sectors and categories of workers. The Slovenian experience is already interesting. We are afraid of brain drain, we receive many Slovak workers in construction, and in agriculture and forestry we work mainly from foreigners from neighbouring Croatia, computers from the countries of the former Yugoslavia, and from Austria there are the most leading workers. In 2001, the law on the employment of foreigners was fully regulated by all forms of work of foreigners in a single law, taking into account the principles, objectives and fundamental ones set out in the 1999 resolution on the migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the law allows for a more advanced way of regulating the employment and work of foreigners and because the proposed amendment to the law does not deviate from the guidelines outlined, we will support the law in the Social Democrats Group. It has already been adapted to the situation in the Slovenian labour market and has taken into account the fundamental principles of international human movement regime and has also been in line with European Union legislation. It is understandable, though, that during these years it has been shown that some of the provisions are inadequate or inadequate. According to the applicant, the basic objective of the law is to complement certain areas of the law, which have so far been under-defined, because they did not specify the criteria and limitations precisely because they were unclear for users or because they allow the abuse of the law. The proposer also announced that it would amend and supplement sub-legislative acts to simplify the procedures for obtaining a work permit and reduce the number of evidence. The new law touches on the 8 content sets that have already been listed, so I will not mention them again, but it seems important to me to draw attention to a common feature. Individual rights are linked to a one-year stay period for self-employed persons or to employment with the employer who travels to our labour market. In doing so, I particularly stress that the provisions exempt Slovenian emigrants, their descendants and others from these provisions. The law will also regulate the seasonal work of foreigners, especially in construction, where the number of foreign workers is highest. When we express our support for the proposal for a law that has slipped smoothly through the second treatment on the home labour body, virtually without a specific discussion, we stress that it is important and urgent to monitor the situation on the Slovenian labour market on a regular basis. If we now find that the Slovenian labour market is not threatened by the arrival of foreign workers, we are aware that it is also necessary to plan measures that, in the event of possible disruptions in our labour market, introduce quotas for work permits or propose to the European Commission the introduction of a security clause against any new EU Member State. In doing so, we do not forget the possibility of bilateral arrangements, such as the employment of our workers in Austria, to reduce unemployment in the part of Slovenia where it is above average. Once again, I would like to stress my support for the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u113	The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, mag. Franz Capuder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Minister with co-workers, honourable Members. The current law on the employment and work of foreigners began to apply at the beginning of 2001 and fully regulated all forms of work of foreigners under the same law in its provisions. It was adapted to the situation in the Slovenian labour market and took into account the fundamental principles of international regulation in this field and, of course, was also in line with European Union legislation. During the implementation of the law, certain shortcomings were identified. At that time, Slovenia also became a full member of the European Union. The Government therefore sought to remedy the shortcomings and to clarify the individual criteria or restrictions by amending this law and to prevent the abuses permitted by the law in force. The shortcomings related mainly to the area of self-employment, as the law in force allows the issue of work permits for foreigners on the basis of the entry into the register of independent entrepreneurs without the same foreigner ever working and staying in Slovenia. The problem of obtaining work permits for additional education is that the law in force of the Institute for Additional Education does not know. The shortcomings were also related to the issue of work permits for the representation of companies and the exploitation of a valid law that does not limit the number of representatives of foreigners. Amendments to the law will address these shortcomings and at the same time comply with the law on offences. The amendments to the law were also addressed by the Economic Social Council and had no comments. Throughout the parental committee, the marriage came unbelievably smooth. In New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party is aware that it is very difficult to get domestic workers to do some of the work, especially in order to perform seasonal works, and not more difficult and poorly paid works in construction, agriculture and works under difficult conditions. It is therefore necessary, despite the fact that the number of unemployed Slovenians is still too high, to employ foreign labour. The situation in this area, I believe, also reflects the attitude of employees and unemployed Slovenes to the value of employment. All too often, workers and the unemployed are engaged in the fact that a particular job is not suitable for their level of education, that it simply does not fit their intellectual level, at least so they express themselves. I know examples in the area of construction, where an independent entrepreneur simply cannot get a worker to perform simple works, but for these works he must hire foreigners, even though he has many unemployed people in his own place who receive state support, but could do such works. I hope that the ministry will end such an anomaly with its policy as soon as possible. Of course, we all know cases from foreign countries, from foreign economies, when also highly educated experts take a broom and there is no shame in doing it if they lose their jobs. In the New Slovenia-Krčan People's Party we will support changes and additions to the law on the employment and work of a foreigner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Member Michael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Charge with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The amendment of the law on employment and the work of foreigners eliminates certain shortcomings which in the practice of implementing the law act as a weakness, with overly bureaucratic procedures for users. Moreover, in practice, because of perhaps over-defined provisions, the individual purpose and purpose of the law of abuse, particularly in obtaining or issuing work permits for self-employed persons, on the basis of which only a foreigner could use this to enter the labour market of other European Union countries, has been used. The amendment introduces a time limit on the stay of foreigners in Slovenia. This proposal further regulates or sets out the question of the secondment of foreigners to additional education in the event that an economic society is interconnected, which is also subject to the limitation of the time of employment on the basis of which cross-border services can be carried out. The issue of the length of working permit to a foreigner for the performance of seasonal works, which relate mainly to agriculture and construction, without which individual economic operators would have difficulty in carrying out their business programmes, is also being further developed. The Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the proposed amendments to the law on work and employment of foreigners as good solutions, which will make the labour market more transparent, even on the issue of foreign representatives, and what is also important, is that the labour market will eliminate the abuse of individual purposes of the law on employment and the work of foreigners in our country, which has been an all-too-frequent phenomenon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. On the proposal of the law that we are considering today, there is actually a positive addition to the current law on the employment of foreigners in 2001, which, in addition to fully regulating all forms of work of foreigners under one law, such as the conditions and possibilities for employment and the work of foreigners, represents in fact some types, some I stressed better protection of the Slovenian worker compared to the previous law regarding the employment of foreigners. We see in this part, in the Slovenian National Party, an important acquisition of the proposed law, which, to some extent, would follow the actions of countries that had to take more restrictive measures under their legislation due to the excessive influx of foreigners. Let me mention the possibility of regulating economic migration with legal restrictions or instruments. Further regulation of access to the labour market according to the type or purpose of work and duration of activities. Selectivity in restricting access to employment and work, priority treatment of already-increased foreigners from new job and work seekers, integration of the right to employment and work with the right to reside, and stricter control and penalties for offenders. Well, even though we have slightly more concerns in the Slovenian National Party until now, mainly due to the lack of adequate inspection in the field. And due to the fact that no further improvements or reinforcements are envisaged in this area. On the other hand, the explanation of the proposed law states in Articles 5 and 6 that the law is also in line with the Asylum Act. As far as I know, there is a new law on asylum in preparation, so I am certainly interested in what concrete coherence is? On the basis of the existing Asylum Law, asylum seekers can be enrolled among unemployed or job seekers and can be compared with domestic job seekers, thus providing an additional opportunity for education, retraining or retraining. All this, of course, at state costs, budget costs. While the bill we are considering today does not foresee any financial implications for the budget, of course. At the time of drafting the law, the government stated that the proposed content would make a significant contribution to preventing abuse or exploitation of work permits. The fact is that some foreigners in Slovenia have never worked, allowing them to enter the labour markets of the European Union. How many of these violations have been committed and what sanctions the perpetrators will face, this is also an information that is important for the implementation of the law in practice. The law further provides for a significantly different, more advanced way of regulating the employment and work of foreigners and relates to the employment and work of foreigners, third-country nationals, citizens of the old Member States. And to the citizens of the EFTA countries who have priority over third-country nationals and certain facilitations in employment in Slovenia under the Accession Treaty. In doing so, allow me to express once again my dissatisfaction with Slovenia's unequal situation within the European Union in this particular area, i.e. employment. Some countries have chosen the right to a transitional period of employment of new people coming from new Member States within the European Union. Slovenia could not cope with this and therefore Slovenia is not affected by this free movement of labour. In Slovenia, foreigners can be employed under special conditions, easier conditions, even within the European Union. The new seventh paragraph of the law, which we are considering today, introduces an obligation for a foreigner to demonstrate his business and the fact that he has not been punished for an offence under this law, and, as always, there is no clear way of expressing himself. And allow me, fear that this is another unfinished sectoral legislation that otherwise has a basis in the criminal code, but will not be implemented in practice. Such protection of the Slovenian labour market and more Slovenian citizens are barren, even under this law. In the Slovenian National Party, we will only vote each on our own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman, DeSUS, has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you. The laws that would have received such very large or almost even unified support in this hall are not much. It seems that the one we are talking about now, the law on employment and the work of foreigners, will receive very large or weekly support. With this conclusion, I am merely predicting the position of the DeSUS Group of Members, which also supports the proposed amendments, while at the same time following the agreement that the amendment has taken on the working body of the Member State. The law or amendments to the law are contained in the 1999 resolution in substance and contextual terms, as well as in the 2002 resolution. In fact, it covers only one part of that comprehensive spectrum of case management. In doing so, it is likely that the monitoring of empirical developments has prompted the proposer to propose amendments which he considers important and, among other things, necessary. The findings we can make in this regard are as follows. These migration flows are not always welcome and welcome everywhere, nor are they always found everywhere and always at the most friendly reception. In addition, it must be concluded that we cannot avoid this, that migration flows have become urgent and, of course, are also a fact. It is therefore clear that we must follow the migration policy we have established and the legislation we are trying to improve now. In particular, we follow the principles of the long-term macroeconomic benefits of migration, and we follow the principles that say that migration flows should be properly managed. As regards either seasonal structures or potential abuses, as well as actual ones, including structures and priorities for, for example, employment of foreigners. The analysis has shown some problems, particularly in the area of seasonal work, in the field of self-employment, in the field of corporate representation and so on and so on. The warnings are that legislation has not been sufficiently defined so far, that measures and conditions need more and better determination that the potential for abuse is so much in hand and that our needs, including the need for employment in seasonal work or in individual industries, are very high and unnecessary obstacles need to be eased here. The proposed changes and objectives are going in the direction of complementary legislation, in the direction of preventing or reducing abuses, in the direction of accelerating the necessary migration, as this is also more than evident in us, especially because of demographic trends and structural unemployment, as we are currently seeing. The scope of all these measures, which have been discussed, goes from sharpening through better control and promoting the employment of those who are actually in need of our market niche. Since we believe that these measures are rational enough to be well thought out, we also support them in the democratic party of Slovenian pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Šteba, Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! For a little while. The current law on employment and the work of foreigners governs all forms of work of foreigners, allowing for the necessary legal clarity regarding the conditions and employment opportunities of foreign workers, as well as transparency over the situation in this area in individual periods. In the current practice of its implementation, some areas in the law have proved to be under-defined in terms of criteria or limitations. Also, some areas in the law were not clear to users and allowed for various abuses. Essential substantive changes relate mainly to and would not comment on self-employment where the applicable law allows the issue of work permits for foreigners on the basis of entries in the register of independent entrepreneurs, without the same foreigner ever working and staying in Slovenia. The problem is to obtain work permits for the needs of additional education, as the current law of the Institute of Additional Education does not know and to issue work permits for the representation of companies and the exploitation of a valid law that does not limit the number of representatives of foreigners. The proposed amendments and the completion of the Employment and Work Act are intended to complement gaps that have been too small and have consequently allowed for various abuses. We will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 28 October 2005, following the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION LEGISLATION OF ARTICLES OF THE TREATY COVENANT COVENANTS. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the government or to Minister Dr Zupan. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u125	Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to go to the pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We've already discussed the law. I believe that the correction was harmonised and necessary. The main objectives are relatively simple, we have three main objectives that we follow with amendments to this law and with some additional changes that are also important. In fact, if I just give you a brief description of the purpose of this law in the main points. This is a rise in the limits for those products made of precious metals that exceed a certain weight, because so far there has been no restriction and each product has to be fitted with stamps, which, in our view and in our view, is completely inappropriate for manufacturers and buyers. The fact is, such a small product cannot be branded. Our proposal is that only gold products weighing more than one gram are now branded and silver products weighing more than seven grams. This is also in line with most European countries. Another change is that now, in addition to just one accredited alloying agency, we are actually giving the possibility of accreditation to private individuals or individuals who have such laboratories, such equipment and are accredited, who reach a certain level of knowledge, that they can also decide on them and officially brand certain products. Of course, these laboratories will be subject to control procedures and accreditations such as all others or the state institution. This opens the economic space to stop talking about the state monopoly on accreditation or branding products of precious metals. The third purpose of this Act is to bring this into line with the Act on Offences, so that the penalties prescribed for certain infringements of this Act are brought into line with the Act on Offences. These are three main objectives, but we have some parallel objectives to mention only two. The first is to introduce two new characteristic alloys, that is, 998 proms in gold and 900 proms in silver, which is in line with those products that are the most on the market, so we introduce this category, which also appears on other countries' markets and has been kind of a void on our market, which means that it was not possible to sell these products in this sense and it was necessary to process them. Another important thing is the handling of complaints. In this law, we have made it possible to appeal against the decision of accreditation against the decision of the institution which gave the test by which a product refused to comply. If a jeweler who has been rejected by a certified service or by one who exercises control has been made in practice so far, this agency has been reopened by the appeal authority. This, in our view, was inappropriate and we gave this injured person the opportunity to appeal to another laboratory, but of course this laboratory, which carries out additional tests, must be legally accredited and this laboratory does not need to be from our country, but from any country where such a laboratory is accredited. So much for a little while. I think these changes were important. We've coordinated this on the committee, and I thank you for supporting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, as the parent working body, has considered this proposal for a law, so I ask the president, Mr Rudolph Monet, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u128	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have begun to consider this law on the committee in a second reading. 12 amendments were tabled, 10 amendments were tabled by coalition parties and one amendment from Nova Slovenije, members of the one amendment coalition later withdrew and Nova Slovenija withdrew its amendment and we formed three new amendments ourselves on the committee. The amendments were only a response to the comments of the legislative and legal service which saw that the law was poorly written and were accepted by all amendments, with the exception of those two which were withdrawn, almost unanimously. It must be said that this is a specific issue of amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 11. The amendment to Article 2 has given us the most work since the drafters of the law in Article 2 have changed the name: instead of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for standardisation and metrology in the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for metrology. This amendment itself would not be questionable if the legislative and legal service did not say that the adoption of the Law on State Administration also transferred powers, so it is necessary to state in these bill-of-laws who is responsible for this area. The Ministry is certainly competent, while the authorities are in the composition of the Ministry, which the government establishes by order, are of secondary importance. Since in the original law, not in this law that amends the original law, we have also repeatedly used the name of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for standardisation and metrology, then we have made a compromise in this way that we have said that the Ministry of Higher Education is responsible for this, but we have also attributed the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for metrology to the Ministry of Higher Education, and we have given some warning to the Government that in the future it should also pay attention to the law on state administration. The second important amendment is the amendment to Article 3 proposed by Nova Slovenije and later withdrawn. This office, however, spoke of the need to change conditions in relation to the branding of products in gold products, instead of branding those gold products with one gram, those with less than three grams should be branded, so now for three grams, and for silver products this limit went from 5 to 7. This means that, on the one hand, the amendment was tabled in order to increase the competitiveness of the goldsmiths and, on the other hand, there was some need on the committee to protect the consumer. The minister said wickedly that if we accepted gold from 1 to 3, that every wedding ring with 2 grams is then so that it did not go through the proper metrology and is "questionable" then also, under the terms of "marital bond", which is concluded with such a ring. But the joke's on the side. The Committee somehow came to a compromise, leaving 1 gram for gold products while amending the law with the amendment by increasing the silver from 5 grams to 7 grams. Therefore, those silver products, where there are less than 7 grams, do not need those produced or sold by the Bureau of metrology to register with them. Then there was Article 11. This article essentially refers, if I may say so, to justice. It's just that someone who gave it, who wasn't satisfied with the test, had to go back to the same office. The committee and I have changed this so that, at his will, he can give another accredited lab that does these things. Almost all the amendments were adopted by the Committee unanimously. I also see that the work has been done well, because there are no amendments to the amended bill, so the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that you adopt the law in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Franc Capuder, Nova Slovenija. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Secretary, Members of Parliament! The market for precious metal products was last regulated by the 2000 law. By implementing the law, suppliers were allowed to independently ensure compliance of their products with the regulations by maintaining the prescribed technical documentation. Since the adoption of the law, a number of positive changes have been made over the past four years in the field of precious metal products, and it has also been shown that the law in some areas needs to be improved and refined and harmonised with comparable European countries. These changes were mainly made in the following two directions: To propose and supplement the limits under which products of gold and silver are not branded or tested for gold per gram, the limit shall be raised to 1 gram and the limit shall be raised to 7 gram in silver. In Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party, as mentioned today, we tried to raise the threshold for the labelling and testing of gold products from 1 to 3 or there were also some ideas on 2 grams, which in our view would be quite valuable products, but on the other hand we have taken into account the recommendations or from the debate, so that consumers could also be less protected than if we kept the limit of one gram. And another major amendment introduced by this bill is that the test can be carried out not only at the State Institute, which is within the metrology office, but that this test can be carried out at all accredited institutions and that it can be carried out by all those who have the appropriate accreditation for these investigations. The law continues to be in line with the law on offences and introduces two new standard qualities of silver and gold cleanliness. In Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party we will support changes in the law on precious metal products because we hope that changes will facilitate the work on the sale of precious metal products and reduce the cost of proving their quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Mr Bogomir Zammernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Since the advantages of these changes have been, so I am here in this situation, I am not going to the pay phone to avoid stealing valuable time from this national assembly. As I said, since the advantages of these amendments to this Act have been expressed by both the Minister and the speakers from the other parliamentary groups and the Chairman of the Committee, I would not like to shorten the time and just say on behalf of the Group of Members that we will be happy to support these changes in our Group of Members. The same is true of the borders that were somehow in the decision-making and settlement processes, which are called the limit for gold 1 gram and for silver 7 gram. On behalf of the Group of Members, I repeat: our Group of Members will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 28 October 2005, following the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for a law on religious freedom and religious communities. Member Aleš Gulič submitted the draft law to the assembly for consideration. With regard to this law, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the bill's proposer for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u134	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! There aren't many of you left, and in a way I'm sorry that such a remarkable subject and such an important subject of response is more than in an empty space in this stone. But still, you're precious who you are, and that's how it has to be. The Law on Religious Freedom and Religious Communities, which I propose, brings some, I will say, relatively revolutionary changes in what exists today. The reasons for this are mainly time-consuming. The law now in force was adopted 30 years ago and several years ago. During this time, in Slovenia, in the territory of our country, a lot has changed. The situation of all Slovenians, all citizens, has changed, we have gained Slovenia, we have entered the European Union, but of course the situation of religious communities has changed, not only Roman Catholic, as we normally think, but all those working in this area, and these are somewhat over 40. The Constitution, adopted in 1991, fundamentally separates the State and the religious community. The law now in force, if anything, is much older than the Constitution and is totally inconsistent with the Constitution. To get rid of these things, in all these 30 years, and in the last 14, 15, it's been kind of magical. There have always been, say, some approximations, arrangements, regulations, in short, things that have always solved current, more or less complex situations. But there was no law. Well, when I made that decision, I helped myself with all the attempts that have been made in the last 10 years. And at that time, there was a great deal of material coming together. The final decision was to remain in the very clear and specific separation of the State and the religious communities, as commanded by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and in the equal treatment of all religious communities in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as those who could ever come between us, even because we are so commanded by the Constitution and because we are so commanded by life itself. At the time of the debate, a number of things opened up, which was problematic, and in fact, they were somewhat silenced, which was not discussed, which some were afraid of and some were trying to avoid. That's why we're making the same decision we're making today. I know the government has given a negative opinion, but I know something else. Rather, this matter is not as clear and clear as some would like it to be. Nevertheless, I propose that you vote against the decision of the home committee, against the text that says that the law is inappropriate to deal with. The law is very suitable for consideration, and the law is one that in some way would solve the complications that have arisen over 30 years and, of course, have not been solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Following the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you very much again for your word. Today, in fact, we are deciding on the decision of the parent working body, which is negative, without any substantive solution. We are therefore taking only a political decision, which is due to the interests of the current government and which means, according to our assessment, an aggressive intervention even into constitutional regulation. Why? The Government, or Minister Šturm, who, in the previous term, has prepared a slightly different but financially supported more or less equal proposal for a law on religious communities, has introduced into the procedure, in the terms "his" law. However, in order for the law to be dealt with, the proposal that we are considering today must give a negative decision, otherwise the government will not be able to bring religious content into all social spheres. That a law that is 30 years old needs to be amended is a fact that we also support in the Slovenian National Party. The situation has changed and certain matters are still being regulated to mention denationalisation procedures, the return of property in nature. It would be very interesting today to get information as to how much, of course, from the financial salary, is worth only the rolling forests, so that I do not mention the other properties. In fact, there is a fear that the church will become the second economic pillar in the country. The church, I limited myself to the church because of these procedures, is not liable to pay the tax. In view of the principle of the sovereignty or respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest legal act in our country, religious communities and the country must remain separate. As a result of this fact, the existing proposal is fully acceptable, since it places religious communities as equal in a clear position, independent and separate from the country, I am of course talking about the proposal that we are considering today. Whether I want to or not, I need to compare the two proposals that are in the procedure, namely today's and what the government is proposing, because of the coalition's political decision, even when it comes to the decision of the labour force or to express criticism to the government, because today's law clearly and equally removes the legal void resulting from the new facts already mentioned. It is not permissible for the government to enter into law that the State is the payer of all social transfers or compulsory pension and disability insurance and compulsory health insurance for all religious servants who are not employed elsewhere. It is 900 million tolls of taxpayers' money, including non-believers and, last but not least, a number of unemployed people who are not eligible for State aid. Inadmissible and, according to our assessment, unconstitutional. This proposal, which we have on our hands today, is closing. Religious care at the police station. The government coalition has even written down the law that we will confirm at this meeting, despite the fact that Minister Sturm has acknowledged that there is likely to be unconstitutional provision within the military. Also this Storm's alleged non-constitutionality, today's proposal is overturning. Instructive law, if I so call it, further opens the door to a verukuku to a public school, but the constitution clearly states that a believer must not be subject to a public school. So it's not even a selection class, except that the school adjusts its schedule to the schedules of religious communities. Today's proposal also clears the storm's insurrection. I'm going to point out one more thing because time is actually haunting me, despite the fact that we can talk long and wide about these things. Today, the religious community, allow me to focus only on one of the forms of religious communities, that is, the church, which is a legal person, is engaged in a completely marketed activity. The church can rent its own premises, business premises. Although this is an extremely profitable activity, it is exempted from the tax system, which is an obligation for all other legal and natural persons in the Republic of Slovenia. The existing draft law at least partially regulates this area and proposes specific amendments. The government law puts everything on the side of the budget. There are still a few things, as I have already said, but we have no time left, so let me mention only the decision of the Slovenian National Party, which will certainly not support the decision of the home labourer from all of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman, DeSUS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thank you. In the National Assembly, we are currently dealing with a number of such topics, which it would be difficult to say that they are contributing specifically to a calm debate, and I therefore estimate that the time for discussion of this law is somewhat under-selected, in particular when we take into account the budgetary debates and the closure of certain committees or committees, and the establishment of other commissions and the reforms we are working on, and so on and so on. In short, the alternative environment in which we need to place this proposal, according to our assessment, is not the most calm debate and arguments that should count on something. The spiritual situation and the political situation and the constellation of political powers currently in Slovenia are also such that it is not inclined to adopt this law or the bill that is before us and that we are now talking about. Finally, it is irrelevant that the institutional organizational power is the most powerful or largest religious community in our country, so that it is only difficult to loosen it now. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we consider that the current environment is less favourable to the adoption of this proposal, but that it is necessary to take into account that we have another law in preparation and that not one or the other may not be the only solution, perhaps there is a third way. The attitude of the Group towards this proposal is, in fact, ambivalent. I can tell you that we're assessing that somehow he's been convicted of failure in advance. That doesn't say anything about being very bad. We don't think so. We believe that the bill is not bad, that it is correct. We estimate that it stems from the premises that are indisputably stated in our Constitution, that there is a systemic building on these premises, which is inconsistent and coherent, and that in some places, with or at the source of the bill's proposal, it is even lenient. Of course, he didn't solve everything. Something was already mentioned. These included incomes that were not under any control, tax legislation was mentioned, and something else would have been found, which would probably have been included in such a law if we really wanted to have everything in order. By the way, we estimate that if such a law were passed, it might even mean very serious implications for political stability in the current Slovenia and any significant changes at this level. The bill, as we know, radically interferes with some of the rights acquired, not immediately and ad hocly, but certainly those who have acquired these rights in the past do not intend to simply leave these rights. Therefore, it is clear that the government’s reaction was very sharp. It is clear from the fact that the unconstitutionality, that illegality, breach of international treaties and so on, which I warn, has not been observed by the legislative and legal service in its opinion. Therefore, given the fact that we appreciate the work of the legislative and legal service, we are relativising these findings, which have been transmitted by the government to the current law's proponent. Therefore, we will be aware that, in fact, we are at a crossroads when we reject a law which is professionally consistent, but which in the current Slovenia has the wrong omen or misinterpretation of the starting points that are recorded in the Constitution, so the government party claims, and therefore the DeSUS Group does not have a decision on collective voting, but we will vote as someone with their intellectual, moral, valuable and other systems can vote that they would not be embarrassed about their own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u140	A respected council, a respected representative of the government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will not support the proposal for a law on religious freedom and religious communities. We believe that the whole concept of the bill is based on the wrong interpretation of the principle of religious freedom and the related principle of separation between the State and the religious community. The draft law refers to the separation of the State from religious communities and, in particular, the exclusion of religious communities from public life and ignores the positive aspect of religious freedom and seeks to apply the principle of separation of State and religious communities in extremely restrictive form. We oppose such separations in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group because we believe that it is unacceptable for a free and democratic society in which diversity is tolerated and accepted, and in which no part of civil society can be excluded from public life. The bill does not increase religious freedom, but actually reduces it. The emphasis on the negative aspect of religious freedom, in particular, significantly generalises the situation for all religious communities, not only in order to distort their pastoral work, but also in terms of the consequences of this, it would also reflect a limited humanitarian, charitable, charitable, educational, cultural and educational field, which is of paramount importance for all of our society as a whole. The bill has a negative impact on certain rights already acquired and in some cases is more restrictive than the former Yugoslav legislation. In this law, there are 18 types of fines for religious communities and other legal entities, which gives the country more control than is the result of a constitutional provision. The provisions concerning the registration of a religious community, the management of a register and the criminal provisions impose a great deal of additional work on the public administration, which could not have been done without additional employment. The provision that a State may not employ dedicated persons of registered religious communities is contrary to at least three provisions of the Constitution. Article 14, equality before the law, Article 41, freedom of conscience, and Article 49, on freedom of work. The bill provides for the abolition of partial payment of social security contributions to priests and monks, thus also abolishing what is stable and has been introduced decades ago. This law does not contain or even deny any cooperation between equal partners: it is a country on the one hand and religious communities on the other. It is incomprehensible why we should not seek to ensure that religious communities and churches and the state do not cooperate in areas that are in the best interests of man and society, wherever it is in the interests and interests of citizens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the deterioration of the situation for religious communities is in no way in line with the efforts for greater religious freedom and the principles of the social and legal state. The proposed law does not increase religious freedom, on the contrary, it reduces it. And the way it is, it doesn't even hold up an international comparison. Therefore, we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Joseph School LDS has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u142	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! We have heard many things in this debate. From the fact that the law has the wrong omen, from the fact that it has not been proposed by the right political group or by the right proponent. These two issues alone question the democratic mood of those who base their arguments on the fairness and fairness of the applicants. In this regard, it is easier to understand any other concerns that go against the law, since they do not actually affect the essence of the problem as this law tries. The law basically prevents the integration of religion and politics. This is his, I will say, key thought and in this case is based on what the Constitution says, based on what the Constitutional Court has ruled in various cases, and based on the positive practice of virtually most European and global democracies, which do not have a problem with tolerance for religious freedom, but very much on the fact that religious activity does not interfere with political and national ones. Similarly, marriage is needed because the previous marriage is not appropriate. In fact, the constitutional solution and constitutional practice show that the Government's repeated actions are subject to critical judgements and it is difficult to speak of the rights acquired, especially when these rights are not based on law, not based on the constitution, but based on the Government's conclusions. The rights that are easily respected are those that have their basis in the constitution and laws, and governments, as we know and know, are making different deals. The LDS therefore proposes a law which provides for a legal regime of religious freedom, which is in accordance with, as I have already said, constitutional regulation and the existing case law of the Constitutional Court. This ensures religious freedom, defines the religious community, enables the registration of religious communities, including in its geographical components, and last but not least regulates the position of the Office for Religious Communities, which is now regulated in a comparatively inadequate manner. Secondly, this law regulates the individual and collective exercise of religious freedom, regulates the procedure for the registration of religious communities and the legal status of registered and non-registered religious communities. This possibility of a religious community as registered or unregistered is, in some ways, fundamental because it says that registration is a matter of the free will of the individual community, not of the law, of the coercion of an office or of a specific policy. It is true, however, that certain rights arise from registered communities. The law also brings an important moment, setting religious age at 12 years of age. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] And a lot more. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u143	Time's up. Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The government and the parliamentary majority are proposing that we reject the bill. We will not do so in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, because we believe that there are no reasons for this, but, above all, not all the options for debate on how good the law contains and how bad the solutions are. We do not accept any formal explanations as to how the law is being dealt with by the business procedure, how the government has shaped its clear negative attitude, how the working body has formally voted. All of this can be true, but do not weigh the fact that such an important law is not adopted or rejected without the widest possible debate. For we all know that the coalition will reject it at this meeting in order, after the same procedure, to propose and adopt the one that is, in the sense of the government, once again without a sound debate and a confrontation of opinions. This is the irresponsible behaviour of the coalition and the government, and this is also the irresponsible conduct of the National Assembly. This is not a law that we adopt under directives of the European Union. It is a law that affects the social situation of all citizens and citizens, believers and non-believers, as well as the situation of the church as an institution and its position in society, in relation to state authorities. We all know that there are not just different views on these issues in politics. Perhaps a policy on many issues that are relevant to the question of the exercise of religious freedom would soon find a common language, since there is no one who wants to restrict religious freedom to any individual. Perhaps it would be somewhat more complicated to ask how to ensure equal conditions for the exercise of religious freedom to all religious communities and whether, in this regard, the State has the right to lay down the conditions that each religious community must meet in order to have an equal position with others. In particular, because we are aware that equality between different, both by size, organisation and social importance is not guaranteed by giving everyone the same rights, but by ensuring more rights for the deprived. Surely, however, it would be the most different opinion on how to implement the constitutional principle of separation between the State and the Church, as attempts and aspirations to interpret this principle in the interests of the church are increasingly uncritical and increasingly strong. However, whether that is the case or not, the question of religious freedom and the position of religious communities should not be discussed and voted upon solely by politicians. Even less so, only representatives of religious communities should be allowed to judge what happened days ago. Absolutely not. These issues concern a wide range of citizens and citizens, not only the largest but all of them, including, and perhaps especially, the smaller religious communities. They concern not only the views of several officials and the pre-defined minister, but also the wide range of professional public, virtually everything, about civil society, NGOs, which may be hampered by the privileged position of religious communities and make their operation impossible. It would therefore be only right that, in any legal solution concerning this sensitive and important area, the widest debate between all interested parties and attempts to form as broad a consensus as possible not to be the case with the law on RTV, where more or less the professional public objected to the law and in most cases was adopted in the National Assembly. The Group of Social Democrats therefore opposes such a way of dealing with such important social issues and supports the proposed law and expects the coalition to recognise this problem, not to decide today, but to withdraw the decision and that we will have the opportunity to discuss these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj, Nova Slovenija has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u146	The New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group opposes and supports the proposal of the Law on Religious Freedom and Religious Communities. The interpretation of the constitutional principle of religious freedom is, in our view, very biased in law. The separation of the State and the religious communities is negative in the law and represents a gradual limitation mainly of the traditional and Slovenian identity of important religious communities or churches. Article 7 of the Constitution defines, in addition to separation, the equality and freedom of action of religious communities. Article 14 of the Constitution speaks of equality before the law, Article 35 speaks of ensuring the inviolability of human physical and mental integrity, privacy and personal rights, Article 41 speaks of the freedom to profess faith in private and public life and the right of parents to provide religious and moral education for children; Article 43 speaks of the prohibition of promoting national, racial, religious and other intolerance. All of these are articles of the Constitution which the law does not take into account in a positive way. The law thus departs from the already adopted practice of positive and cooperative understanding of religious freedom in Slovenia, reflected in the law on ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters on legal issues and in the law on public gatherings, in the criminal code, in the media law, in the law on the protection of cultural heritage, in the law on pension and disability insurance, in the law on denationalisation and so on. In particular, the law reflects a biased interpretation of these constitutional rights. In Article 30, which defines religious spiritual care in the Slovenian military; Article 31, which defines religious spiritual care in institutions for the cessation of imprisonment; Article 32, which defines religious spiritual care in institutions with partial or completely limited freedom of movement and institutions carrying out institutional protection; Article 33, which defines the State provision of religious and spiritual care; Article 35, which defines freedom to build and use facilities for religious purposes; Article 36, which defines the state financing of religious activities and employment of dedicated persons of registered religious communities and Article 46, which defines equal access to public media and prohibits confessional programming. Religious communities and employees would be placed in an unequal position under this law, compared to other civil society organisations that become members of the social state. There is also a problem with the notion of neutrality, which is clearly aligned with the notion of atheism, which is once again a kind of innovation. Atheism is a secular belief for us, and as such it cannot have a privileged position before other beliefs. The bill gradually abolishes the current method of carrying out religious spiritual care to the military and in the institutions for the cessation of prison sentences. We believe that this withdrawal does not increase religious freedom and does not hold back international comparisons. The bill was prepared through most of the churches and religious communities. We expect that the government proposal that is in preparation will finally be able to establish a normal civilised state in this area, as Slovenia will do.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.46 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Other defenses of the preliminary act on the non-cooperation of public function with beneficial activity. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Social Democrats' Group does not support the proposal of the government coalition and the Slovenian National Party to enforce the anti-corruption law and replace it with a law that was in force ten years ago, although these solutions were not effective. The rationality and cost reduction arguments, some ten million of which they state, would be covered only by one exposed case of corruption. Therefore, argumenting these costs is indeed a simple demagogy. The Commission is only supposed to mix the fog, according to the High Representative of the Government. Instead of encouraging the work of the Commission, the government has been talking for a year about its inability to do nothing and not reveal anything, and it is a double act. The government argues that the Commission has insufficient powers but does not assess whether they should be increased rather than ensuring conditions for normal and effective functioning. The government therefore decided, in agreement with the Slovenian National Party, to abolish the Anti-Corruption Commission in order to ensure that the State does not have a self-employed, independent working body responsible for determining the suspicion of corrupt acts by public officials. But we all know that the greatest potential for corruption is with those in power, that is, with the government. We can therefore say that the government does not want us to have a self-sustaining and independent anti-corruption commission, which may also identify the potential corruption of the government. However, without a change of law, she could not abolish a politically incompatible commission, but she decided to abolish it by amending the law, even though and at a time when the NGO Transparency International warned that Slovenia had not improved its position on the level of corruption in the country, but represented only two thirds of the upper limit. That is why we believe that the proposed law for the country is harmful and we will not accept it. Moreover, so far we have proposed many amendments that could be properly drafted, and none of these amendments have been adopted after major debates. The Group of the Social Democrats, in accordance with Article 65(2) of the Rules of Procedure, does not wish to participate in the work on this point in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u149	I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the draft law for further explanation. Please, Mr. Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, I'm obliged to answer Mr. Potsch. It's not about a few ten million, it's about hundreds of billions that have been estranged by wild privatisation by black sales of businesses. And it's actually thousands of people who lost their right to work and landed at the institution. The Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity must be adopted as soon as possible. There's no doubt about that. Why? The evidence is in you. See as children we are arguing whether we will have two more committees to revise the pigs that were happening in the economy over a period of years in the sale and wild ownership of companies that had much added value. So the damage, which is enormous, results, as I said, in fact, in the case of workers on the road, in closing up a great company with large market shares. If we just look at some tobacco factory, then Cologne, not to mention another, isn't that corruption? We already have two committees: one national assembly and one so-called Kosovo. Both committees are essentially under the auspices of the State. It would be good for them to join together in one way and in this way also to reduce costs and to increase the legal competence of this commission, which will also have the opportunity to participate in the forecasting process. We are against commissioning in the Slovenian National Party. We've made that clear. The last call from our side is unequivocally clear and we have highlighted it in writing. If we have to set up one commission or two committees, we will set up one that will deal with the past in addition to two. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if it already supports the law in the procedure, could also be a little more credible and constructive. The date of adoption of this law is the transfer of powers to the National Assembly Commission, and we know that this should also involve the simultaneous transfer of the necessary financial resources and personnel. In this commission, the so-called Kosovo Commission, there are also excellent staff and we have never denied it. It is also about how these funds will be bridged, although we know that the official position is actually the government's official position to put the available funds on the budget reserve line. Isn't this nonsense to know how this committee is going to work? In a new transparent way, with powers, I'm sure, but with what kind of financial means, that's not clear. Nobody wants to talk about it. Now the government is even moving in some way, and here is the criticism of the government. The Commission, as such today, has a very narrow range of powers, since it has virtually no legal powers, even less, no tangible results of its work, no involvement in criminal proceedings or pre-trial proceedings relating to corruption offences and no prosecutions. The detection of crimes is one way or another, if we look at the law, the matter of internal authorities and inspections and the end of every citizen, because everyone is obliged under Article 145 of the CAP to notify the prosecution, if this is a crime. Otherwise, in the Slovenian National Party, we consider that the Commission is only a large budget consumer. This is where Mr. Potts found the right numbers. This is a few 10 million, and if we count the whole budget, we can talk about significantly larger numbers or hundreds of millions. So it's not possible to think about whether we're going to have one commission or two. However, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia certainly want more honesty in the use of financial resources, greater transparency and greater transparency, as these are public funds. Today, as far as I am aware, no commission has in fact found a criminal offence and here goes the criticism to the judiciary. With permanent mandates, the judiciary today allows itself not to conduct judicial proceedings in a transparent manner. I don't know if any of the perpetrators of crime would be behind bars today. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the law must certainly be supported and adopted and thus also ensure a transparent review of the use of public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to the Minister and the Secretary of State and also to you, colleagues and colleagues! At its 12th meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity. The meeting was also attended by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Public Administration, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Rule of Law Service and the National Assembly Commission under the Anti-Corruption Act, which promised a lively debate, which also took place at the meeting of the Committee. The representative of the proposer provided an additional explanation to the article of the bill, in which he stressed that the main purpose of the law was to ensure transparent use of public funds and, in this connection, also to establish a special committee of the National Assembly with special powers and powers. The President of the National Assembly Commission under the anti-corruption law, Barbara Žgajner Tavš, presented the Commission's written opinion, which considered the proposal to be an interested working body. In his presentation of the Commission's position on article of the bill, the president of the Committee on the Prevention of Corruption, Drago Kos, said that he believed that the proposal was a step backwards in the fight against corruption and that incorrect data had been provided in the comparative legal view of the bill and that he had participated in the discussion on individual articles of the bill. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented some of the key points from their written opinion, which notes that the proposal for a law with minor amendments and additions is similar to the provisions of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity that has been in force since 1992 until the law on the prevention of corruption has been implemented. From this point of view, the proposed law constitutes a certain departure from the 2004 conceptual origins when the anti-corruption law was enacted, particularly in the sense that solutions are being abandoned, including the abolition of the anti-corruption commission as an independent body and the transfer of the powers of the commission to a commission established in accordance with the law within the framework of the National Assembly. In the legislative and legal service, they consider that the proposed abolition of a commission acting as a separate state authority does not fully correspond to the transfer of powers. However, this means that the proposed amendments replace not only the carrier in the law of certain tasks but also their scope and nature, according to the legislative and legal services. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also identified herself to the amendments tabled, stressing that she does not fully address their concerns regarding the situations, tasks and composition. In the debate, members and members of the Committee discussed, inter alia, how this would have a significant impact on the original conceptual issue raised by them in relation to the termination of the Commission and within the meaning of the United Nations Convention, where representatives of the Government explained that the United Nations Convention had not yet been in force and had not yet been signed and ratified by Slovenia, that now the working Commission did not constitute the only way to implement the provisions of the Convention. Furthermore, the question of the composition of the Commission was raised, then taking into account the experience of the anti-corruption commission so far. The proposed law was also accompanied by amendments by the SD Group of Members. The Commission of the National Assembly on the Prevention of Corruption has also tabled its amendment and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Proposals for an amendment to the Committee were also proposed. The latter were adopted and are also an integral part of the supplementary report that you have before you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Here you go, Minister Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At first reading, the government prepared its views on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u155	Mr. Minister, may I ask you a favor? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u156	I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The government prepared its position on the law at first reading. It took the view that the proposed law was good in the basic concept, but that it contained in individual articles in individual solutions to the shortcomings that could be addressed by amendments. Therefore, before the second hearing, we went ahead with the preparation of these amendments, and so the government of law in many parts of the articles also amended in cooperation with the mother's working body. From 1992 to 2004, we had a law that regulated, in accordance with European standards and practice, the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity. This law was flawed at many points and needed innovation, there is no doubt about it, but in 2004 instead of upgrading this law, there was a desire of the previous government or the previous government coalition to create some kind of smoke screen. As it turned out that the detection and prevention of important forms of crime such as corruption, economic crime and so on was ineffective, it wanted to show that by setting up a commission, we could put ourselves on the brink of these phenomena. We have one thing to clear up first. The Commission does not detect or prevent corruption in order to prevent corruption. That's what the police do. That's what the D.A. does. It has a series of tasks that, according to our firm belief, are unnecessary and unnecessary and that actually amount to a waste of tax money. The figures presented today were different numbers. In one mandate, the Commission would spend one billion tolars on its operations, with the Commission itself proposing an increase in the number of employees by 10 in its staffing plan in 2006. We do not claim that there will be billions of savings, but we argue that it will be possible to save a significant part of this money by performing tasks differently. I would like to repeat this: in our view, the work of the anti-corruption commission is to a large extent a blurring of real problems, a throwing of sand into the eyes and some kind of corruption or anti-corruption bureaucracy without real effects. Saving or rationalising in this area goes hand in hand with the Government's other efforts to rationalise in many areas. Let me list some of these: from the general public procurement, where we try to save substantial resources through joint procurement, for example in the field of mobile telephony, cars and so on. Then you will recall that the government, through its intervention, has also resorted to the illegal establishment of the professional function of the President of the State Council, that the government has proposed a law that is now in this National Assembly, whereby the Supervisory Institute for the Protection of Personal Data joins the Ombudsman in accessing information of a public nature, and this is also a matter of rationalisation. Part of the anti-corruption law on non-compatibilities, on gifts, restrictions and prohibitions on gifts, on the acceptance of gifts, on the prohibition of business operators in which officials are involved with the State and local communities and on the application of property is important. It is important because it ensures the credibility of state institutions and officials, because it prevents conflicts of interest because it increases the confidence of citizens in public institutions and officials, because it enhances the openness and transparency of the functioning of the State and local communities and as a by-product can also prevent any case of corruption in certain cases, although this cannot be its main purpose. This part, which I am talking about and which is important, incompatibilities, restrictions and prohibitions on the acceptance of gifts, restrictions on the operations of entities in which officials are involved with the State, we are fully maintaining this part of the law and tightening it, in many respects we are tightening it, imposing sanctions and a stricter regime for public sector officials. The tasks under this law shall be entrusted to the Commission of the National Assembly. I must stress in particular that an amendment has been tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups, or SDS's parliamentary group, which speaks of the majority of the opposition, the president and the majority of the Commission. In our firm belief, this ensures the credibility of this body, this institution, and ensures that effective control will actually be exercised over officials belonging to the government or belonging to the ruling coalition. After discussion on the Committee, we agreed that this Commission should in the first place mean control of power, although I must say that restrictions and prohibitions apply equally to officials coming from the other political side or other political parties. However, we listened to the arguments and, therefore, the government also supports this amendment, decided on this solution. I must stress in particular that the government and all other state institutions are acting as open and transparent as possible. We have a law on access to information of a public nature, which has recently been amended and represents an additional opening of the public sector that enables everyone, not only any commission, but everyone, every journalist, every citizen, to see all the documentation that comes from the functioning of the national institutions and institutions of local communities. And everyone can see for themselves how these institutions work. In particular, I would like to point out that the law opens up information on the property of public officials. These data are becoming publicly available by law. So it's not only accessible to a commission, it's accessible to a body that then operates with this information, but it's accessible to the public. This is, in our view, the highest possible degree of openness and transparency in the functioning of the authorities and the functioning of public function holders. We also tighten the business conditions in which officials with capital or management rights or as members of management, with the state and local communities are involved. The law provides for an absolute prohibition that an entity in which an official is involved would operate with that institution or with that authority in which that official performs his or her functions. In other words, if a member of the municipal council, for example, has a company in any municipality or even a small share in that company, this company will not be able to operate with the municipality in which it participates as a member of the municipal council. With regard to public property and income, I would like to stress in particular that the government team, that we have already taken this step by signing a code whereby we have committed ourselves to making all our assets and all the income we earn at the time of the performance of our duties public. Now this is also provided for by law. So far, the law has not determined the consequences of the unusual increase in assets. The Commission has collected hundreds and hundreds of property returns, including from non-professional officials in local communities, i.e. municipal councillors. How this has been processed, for what purpose it is used, is extremely difficult to say. Surely, however, there were no consequences or sanctions in the event of an unusual increase in assets being detected somewhere. That's what the law rules now. We also impose sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the rules of this law. If, for example, the official does not cease to perform incompatible activities, for some cases legislation has not now recognised or provided for sanctions, the law now provides for those cases where this has not yet been regulated to terminate the function under this law. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u157	Mr. Secretary, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u158	I have used my time and have also completed the presentation of the government's opinion, so I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 8th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 24.10.2005. We're starting with Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SLS parliamentary groups. A review of the amendments tabled to the supplementary proposal of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, the second treatment, you received in an extended form on the bench. Who wants a word on Article 2? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am opening a debate on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article of the LDS Member Club and the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Who wants a word? Here you go, Mrs. Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Let me reiterate the unequivocal position of the LDS Club that if the National Assembly does not support at least the vast majority of the LDS amendments or the main ones to which this amendment falls under Article 4, we will not support the LDS Members and Members of the LDS. We are firmly opposed to the intention to abolish the anti-corruption commission by implementing this law, as proposed, by effectively losing an independent, impartial and professional body that has established control over all several thousand of its constituents in the Republic of Slovenia and has also established restrictions on the operations of companies whose owners are such as state and local communities. It is an irrefutable fact that the proposed law seeks to prevent or substantially detract from this control, because it intends to restore inadequate parliamentary supervision, which has already proved to be quite inadequate in the past, since the Members have supervised themselves, and this has then been repeated at the local level, local community officials have supervised themselves. If such a law as proposed is passed, Slovenia will also be disgraced in the international public. Slovenia has committed itself when it has signed the United Nations Convention against Corruption to ratify and establish an independent and impartial body implementing the national anti-corruption strategy. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also pointed out that the functioning of the Commission, the working body of the National Assembly, and even though with specific tasks, in view of the position and role of the representative body, is limited to political aspects. This means that the proposed amendments not only replace the institution in the law with certain tasks but also their scope and nature. The legislative and legal service has also identified itself to the amendments tabled by the government, stressing that they do not remove their concerns about the situation and competences of the composition, the manner in which the Commission was established and the functioning proposed as the working body of the national assembly. The legislative and legal services have also considered that certain new powers of the Commission raise the issue of the division of power into executive, legislative and judicial matters. Thus, inter alia, the possibility of initiating a judicial dispute against the decisions of the Commission and the supervision of the parliamentary commission over the officials of the judiciary is disputed. Although the ruling coalition has made mistakes by the government with new additions, it provides that, in order to carry out the duties under this law relating to the officers of the judiciary, the Council of Justice has tried to correct it, but it is also sinning. In doing so, the ruling coalition has completely overlooked the constitutional position and powers of the judiciary, and it is also unaware of how the judicial council should apply or whether it could be applied by law to a newly established judicial or administrative dispute over the decisions of the Council. I will not repeat the broad and detailed position of the LDS Club, which we have already presented here, which is why we strongly reject the proposed law in order to correct something, however, if our amendment to Article 4 is accepted by the National Assembly. In particular, I would like to point out that we are still concerned about the fact that the ruling coalition supports this law, and that it is a political structure that has come under the power of its sharp critics at the expense of the alleged corruption of the former authorities, which has deteriorated beyond all limits. The current authority is, of course, completely immune before this severe social illness, but the appropriate commission will not have one that can diagnose the disease. For each case and, of course, even safer, so for the current authority of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Kangler has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. The Slovenian People's Party cannot support the amendment to Article 4 tabled by the LDS Group for the following reasons. We are convinced that the way described in the amendment to Article 4, where the proposal is to obtain two commissions, one commission would be a single body and the other commission of the national assembly. The way in point 3, as the amendment foresees, is not acceptable to us. But it's not acceptable to us for the following reasons. It is clear from the amendment that in some ways the Commission of the National Assembly, which would have been established in this way, would have been the Supervisory Commission as the independent commission established by this amendment. In point 14, they say that, in order to exercise direct control over the performance of the tasks of the Commission relating to non-compatibilities, restrictions on gifts and control of the assets of officials and to carry out other tasks under this law, the State Assembly shall establish a commission under the anti-corruption law. Thus, the National Assembly should set up a commission on the basis of this law in order to oversee this second Commission. I must point out, however, that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we have followed closely the debate on the Internal Policy Committee and we have worked very hard with Minister Virant to enable him to obtain the majority of the opposition in this committee. Therefore, in the coalition, we have decided to write an amendment of such content as you gentlemen have today to Article 4 under Article 2. The Commission of the State Assembly, composed of the President, the Vice-Presidents and five members, shall be responsible for the performance of the duties under this Act and for the supervision of the implementation of the provisions of this Act. However, the law goes on to state that the president of the commission has an opposition. And it is acceptable and fair for the Slovenian People's Party. Most of this commission will be held by the opposition because it is a supervisory body or for supervision. And what does that mean? I look to my parliamentarians, in any political colour, whoever is proposed to this committee, I trust. And it's parliamentary oversight. And if anyone in this Chamber can explain to me what the difference between what some on the left call Kosovo is going to be, and this committee that is supposed to be set up in the National Assembly or should have a new commission where most of the opposition would have it. What's the difference? There'll be no difference. This Commission also has the opportunity, opportunity and also the ability, along with professional services, to act within its powers if corruption occurs. Here in the National Assembly and can also directly refer to other state-owned oran who are charged with pursuing official duties when it comes to crimes that are prosecuted under official duty. And I don't see any problem here. The problem is political, what we talked about a lot not only in the committee, but also in the National Assembly. The first problem is that the Slovenian National Party has proposed this law. The opposition did not support this and the coalition has supported some changes and has also prepared thorough and substantive amendments. That's another problem. The third problem is that this problem would not have occurred at all if it were wide-ranging, and I personally hope to claim that they trusted the functioning of such a commission by all parliamentary parties. Here, however, we can look for the consequences of political decisions in the past in the previous mandate. And here's the problem. I am sure that there is a need for confidence in the Parliamentary Commission. I will personally confide in her, as will all other bodies or commissions and working bodies in the National Assembly. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the amendment two times, as in the coalition or in the SDS Group, the People's Party and the New Slovenia Group, together with the Minister. He's an honest amendment and he's giving the opposition a chance. If they agree in the opposition, the President of this commission will have the largest parliamentary party, such as the LDS, and have it. I don't see any problem. Either she's a National Party or she's a Social Democrats. What's the problem? They must work in accordance with the law, work in accordance with the rules of procedure and work of such a working body must take place. And it is most fair that all parliamentary parties, or the seven-member Commission, deal with the issue that it deals with also. And there will be as much opposition as coalition. This is a clear assurance, a parliamentary assurance that there will be no abuse of such or other substantive data coming to this committee or any kind of commission being considered. And once again, in the Group of Members, we will be happy to support this amendment. I'm surprised some of the opposition are so strongly opposed. Here they have a tool, here they have an argument that they can take over this commission, that they can lead it and that they will have most of the members of this commission in the opposition. I would point out, however, that there are already some commissions in Parliament where the opposition has a majority. And parliamentary practice shows that there are no problems where the opposition has a majority. Any decision can be voted on, anyone can work. But in my personal opinion, I am also participating in one of these committees, and we are Members of Parliament, regardless of the political parties we come from, and we have a relationship to the supervisory work, because the National Assembly has entrusted us with work and together with the other acts that impose on us supervisory authorities to control. And I'd end it with that. The Slovenian People's Party will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to point out that the Commission, as Bosnia and Herzegovina has already said in its previous reading, is not healthy to establish, and that is why it is not healthy to attach such amendments. Last but not least, we have made the issue clear in the past, and we have also referred to the right of an extraordinary meeting. The issue of corruption was requested to be addressed at the so-called extraordinary meeting of 31.5.2004. And look at the fraction, at the time it was against LDS and the United List, which today says that in fact corruption is almost not that everything is okay. And a reminder of corruption. During this time of 12-year rule, I will mention only a few matters that marked essentially the Slovenian working class. Red Cross, Secretary General of the Red Cross. We know what the affair was, and it's still nice today, even saying that there are unfounded convictions against him or the lawsuit, and he was a member of the United List at the time. Elan, they even shared the prize. A fund to build a new pediatric clinic. This matter was described in detail by the MAG, then we have the Viator-Vector, the Youth Week revealed it, then we have the SIB bank, the Orion affair, which was warned by Pop TV, and the Falcon, and essentially the Zbilski Gaj, and the Insurance Company Triglav, and so on and so on. There's a lot of them. Where are hundreds, hundreds of billions of this money? They've gone underground somewhere. And those who got rich with it today are the new rich, the modern-day rich, who were a little over a decade ago working in the middle class and the same for us, if I may say so. No one will be responsible for the fact that thousands and thousands of people are unemployed today, that the lowest layers of our society are affected. Mothers of single mothers today do not even have the basic survival of such matters. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law in order to have a commission. And this commission, which will be set up, will be made up of left and right. And the right hands shall look at the left hand, and the left hand, and so is the right. And there must also be experts on this committee who will understand the case law as well as the accounts, including members of the current Kosovo Commission. I spoke to Minister Virant myself. I will be indignant if any of these members of the current Kosovo Commission loses their jobs. I'll be the first to protest. We have nothing against anyone on this committee. It's labeling us, and there's a lot of unrealism sticking to us. All we want is the transparent work of a commission that will have full powers and which will also be able to act. That's our purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I cannot agree with the proposed amendment of the LDS Group. It's an amendment that denies the concept of this law. The amendments are supposed to be submitted in such a way that the concept does not change. This amendment has been tabled in such a way that the concept changes absolutely and is not acceptable for this reason. The LDS Group's amendment seeks to re-establish the concept of the role of the anti-corruption commission so far, which, as I have said, is contrary to the new concept of the law that this proposed law is implementing. The second is that the proposed amendment stems from the assumption that the anti-corruption commission should be abolished, namely that the body fighting corruption should be abolished. This assumption is not accurate, except on behalf of this Commission, that it is actually being replaced as a committee of the national assembly. But in fact, the commission did not carry out this fight against corruption, because it did not have these powers to carry out this fight. This assumption is wrong. Notwithstanding the very name of this anti-corruption commission, in fact, this role of effective fight against corruption, as I said, was not the Commission's. Moreover, in the event that she has encountered information about a corrupt act in her work, she may have applied to the competent law enforcement authorities, to the police and to the prosecution. She had this side effect. The side product of its work could also have been a direct fight against corruption, which, of course, the proposed commission also now has. I therefore argue that the anti-corruption commission, whatever its name, can effectively counter corruption. Last but not least, without adequate powers, it cannot do anything very effective in suppressing corruption. More importantly, the state creates the conditions for them to effectively prosecute the corruption of the law enforcement authorities in accordance with their legal powers, and I have in mind the police and the prosecution. These certainly have legal powers to prosecute such a case, contrary to the above-mentioned commission. They are obliged to pursue all forms of corruption, which is also imposed on them by the legislation in force and which people rightly expect from them. This is and must also be one of the country's priorities. There is no reason to lose much energy and costs in forming and maintaining a harmless tiger, which is also called the Anti-Corruption Commission, although it is not. So the tiger that has teeth and those teeth has been implanted by existing legislation, and the country has probably not engaged enough so far. On the other hand, there is something that clearly does not inspire confidence in the work of the anti-corruption or, if you like, the so-called Kosovo Commission. This, however, is the way this commission is appointed by its own law. The Commission was appointed by the State Assembly by a simple majority. And in this way, despite the fact that there have been various proposals in this regard, the National Assembly has appointed the Commission by a simple majority. And in this way, the ruling coalition, in its previous term, has, of its own free will, recruited people into this commission. In doing so, you will probably agree that in such a case it is difficult to talk about an objective, neutral, non-political or balanced commission. On the contrary, the new Commission, which is prescribed by the proposed law, is already significantly more objective, more neutral and significantly more politically balanced in terms of its appointment. This is because, after the new opposition, it has the right to propose, not only to propose, but also to practically delegate the majority of the members of this Commission and also the President of this Commission. The ruling coalition cannot deprive the opposition of this right under the law itself. Until now, under the current law, the opposition had no such option in any way, and therefore the ruling coalition in the previous term could be on its own without the opposition being able to prevent or influence anything, appoint and vote on the composition of the commission, as it was most politically responsible. Therefore, in this sense, I can say peacefully that the Commission, which is now proposing the proposed law, is much more credible and credible than the Commission so far has been after the law in force. It is also important that the bill provides for a multi-party composition of the Commission, and, as I have already mentioned, the law provides for a decisive role for the opposition, who has the majority, as I have already mentioned, in this committee, and also for the President of this Commission. This will certainly make the work of the Commission more transparent than it has been so far, as the representatives of the parliamentary parties will have a direct view of the data that the Commission will obtain in its work and will also directly participate in the work of this Commission. Therefore, the proposed law certainly means a step forward in ensuring effective supervision in the field of the functioning of public officials whose public work must be supervised, the provisions of the law that we are considering today not only allow for the identification of the possible incompatibility of public function and gainful activity, but also allow for appropriate action in the event of irregularities identified by the Commission. This, of course, is not a direct fight against corruption, as I have already said, but that is why the authorities which are set up to do this, which are legally competent, will also have to do this work and the state will have to provide them with all possible conditions for effective work. Therefore, once again, the amendment tabled by the LDS stems from the wrong assumption, changes the concept of the law and is therefore unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone in this room. In recent years, there has been a lot of talk about corruption. In some ways, corruption has been a modern concept in Slovenia, both in this national assembly and in the media. If we followed these discussions, we could quickly conclude that Slovenia was somehow shot by corruption. On the other hand, the statistics of the prosecution and the police show that corruption is almost gone. One hand could count each year the cases where the case of corruption was condemned by a judicial verdict. But the truth is probably somewhere in the middle. That is why I only support the amendment to Article 4, which is the amendment tabled by our Group of Members, together with the other coalition partners, because this amendment ensures that it has the majority of the opposition in the new Commission. The confrontation between the position and the opposition is, we know, the salt of parliamentaryism. And I think the opposition can be the best control over the ruling elite, whatever it is in power. As has already been said here, so far the rule has been that the anti-corruption commission has been appointed by the ruling or parliamentary majority, which has proved to be bad. There are 35,000 Members on this earth. There are 90 of us in this National Assembly. I think that we are most responsible for the implementation of anti-corruption fighting in all times of the social system. And it is right that the Members of this national assembly are also aware of this. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the final "Transparency International", which ranks Slovenia 31st. This is the same classification as it was in last year's period. All of this shows that, in fact, the anti-corruption commission, although it had a very short mandate in the past term, for a year, has failed to improve this position. We haven't made the truth worse. However, we can expect improvement in the coming years, mainly due to the results of last year's elections, because if the power we have witnessed in the last 12 years continued, then we could probably talk about a corruption pandemic. Transparency International shows that the cleanest countries are those who have a very advanced democracy that has material prosperity. These are Iceland, Finland, Sweden, Denmark. At the bottom of this scale, the least clean country, there are 159 countries around the world on this scale, and there are countries where the government of poverty, which developed from the military junta years ago, is a military dictatorship. Unfortunately, these countries often export corruption or corruption practices directly to developed countries in the West. It may also be true to add that there is room for change. For example, Hong Kong, which is now on a new one, landed on this last scale for 2005 at 15th place, and Hong Kong in the past was considered a very dirty country. In Hong Kong, they have a free phone where people can announce various corruption acts and maybe we can use it, and anonymity is guaranteed. Above all, they were able to convince people in Hong Kong that corruption was bad. In this last year, in recent months, there has been a speech that the so-called Kosovo Commission is a toothless tiger, and we have heard the opposite of the fact that the new Commission will be a gentle pussy. Let's wait, but maybe this new parliamentary commission will still be a guardian of any anti-corruption dog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I cannot support the LDS amendment for the following reasons. The Act on the Incompatibilities of performing a public function with a gainful activity has undergone radical changes in this novelty. In fact, the existing anti-corruption commission has very little competence, especially in the fact that it is run by a compromised and non-creditable person. As a member of the Commission, at the time of my term of office, I was convinced that this was the right thing to do to save Slovenia from corruption, as soon as I realized that the Commission had already been told several times by a paper tiger who threatened and feared and no one was afraid of him. Its main work is to select information about property and gifts, the main weapon of intimidation or rather to send threatening letters. The largest victims, however, were municipal councillors, who received a pair of 10,000 tolars for their leisure work in the municipal world. Those municipal councillors who gave something to themselves and usually made the most of their contributions to the successful work of the municipal council simply decided to return their mandate at the time of the request for information. It could well have been that some of the congregations had lost most of the saints. Fortunately, the new bill corrects this anachronism. I welcome the transfer of tasks to the National Assembly Commission, as it is multi-partyly composed and ensures a balanced and balanced functioning. The predominant role of the opposition, however, ensures quality control of power, which is undoubtedly an important mission of such a commission and ultimately remains a prosecution and trial, an exclusive instrument of justice. By transferring the powers of the Commission to the national constituency, we will also unquestionably save taxpayers' money, of course. After all, the current Commission has spent almost 180 million a year or a billion in its mandate, which is not to be overlooked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The fourth Article is only one of practically all that have been amended and amended. And let us remember that the first proposal the Slovenian National Party has submitted to the decision remains only a request for the removal of an independent body. With regard to the DeSUS Group of Members, she was never thrilled that independent authorities would turn into dependents, and so is our position today. We feel that it would be right for the law to provide for an independent, independent body and not one that is now envisaged by the amendment that speaks of a committee of the National Assembly. The amendments we discussed and the changes that have been made have actually significantly improved the law. We appreciate that and we respect that, but the flaw that remains in this law is this dependence, so we understand it, from the political will and not the independent body accompanying this area. If we really wanted to change it in this direction so that we could have more competence to be more operational, we could do with the previous law just as we have now done and give him these powers, which he also certainly lacks, and take away from him those tasks that we believe he has performed in our view now needlessly when he also collected information about all the congregation councillors. So, we support the position that the Authority should be independent, we do not support the position that this should be a national assembly commission. However, we estimate that, given the first proposal that was tabled, this law is still significantly better. We will vote later within the Group of Members in my own way, and I certainly know for myself that I will not support this subsidiary body, but how my colleagues decide is up to their conviction. To conclude, however, I would like to point out that this fundamental ambition, which was put forward by the first proposal, has not changed, so that we should end the independent commission by questioning the requirements or the United Nations Convention, and that some of the amendments that are now new are, so to speak, grotesque decorations on a dress that abolishes an independent commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me start with the paradox. As I have been monitoring the debate both on the Internal Policy Committee and here, I must find that we are dealing with a significant paradox, when it is those who rode and forged their policy on anti-corruption rhetoric before a good year ago who have actually been talking all the time about how those who were in power at the time were corrupt and how the opportunity for the elections to take over a new uncorrupted elite - that it is precisely those who rode on this anti-corruption horse today and in those days with the help of a suspected opposition party that are changing this law in an essential article and abolishing one of the important institutions which, together with other institutions in this country, should ensure that such corruption is as little as possible. This Commission, which is hereby repealed by Article 4, is not the only anti-corruption body in Slovenia, but is one of the authorities in a network ranging from legislation, i.e. this national assembly, to the government, to prosecutions, courts, police and so on, and this is an important body, because it has important powers as a body which controls precisely those for whom it is repeatedly, willfully or unwillingly, with a view to justifying, whether or not, that they are most prone to corruption. And that, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow Members, is us, politicians, one or the other, regardless of color. We should be well aware that there must be an authority outside of us to verify us, to determine what our assets are, how much we have earned, how much we have earned on assets during our term of office. Not us, the others have to judge us! And this is what you are shutting down today; you are putting an end to it in order to protect yourself. Why would we protect ourselves in this way, it's clear - because you think there's a lot going on and going on that others can't find out. But they'll find out. This company is different now, and they'll know everything. That is why I cannot support this law and I would like to see the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia adopted so that the existing commission remains to be given new powers. On the basis of this bad year, we could determine what should be improved in this committee, which additional powers under the constitutional system can still be obtained from us and how it can do its work better than it has done so far. We can't evaluate her until now because she's been working too long. Obviously, the transfer of powers - some powers, not all of them, because some are disappearing - to the parliamentary committee for me, I have to use this term, perversely. It is perverse at first because politicians will control themselves and perversely because this commission will be limited only to political matters and will not be able to make professional decisions, parliamentary commissions do not have this nature. It's also perverse because you say she'll have most of the opposition on this committee. What opposition? It is this opposition, together with the government, that is preparing a law that will abolish one of the important institutions of this law. We can certainly say that this is neither an opposition nor a jurisdiction that would be judged by this commission as a parliamentary commission. Here you have bought the opposition in some way, if I may use it in the translated sense of the word and in the notes, the "one opposition" and with this opposition you will rule and use, abuse the information you will have for as long as you wish. I have no doubt about it, and the dark eyes make me even more convinced of it. Of course, the law should be improved. Of course, the provisions of the articles dealing with the debtors, the reporting and non-cooperation, the non-professional members of the municipal councils were too, too harsh, must be amended. But the question is, to say the least, to put an end to it. Of course, we need to improve a lot of things. Like, it's not in there, and it should be. We should complement what and how with unprofessional membership in some informal institutions such as strategic saints. In the strategic world, there is a director of one of the largest financial institutions - they came as I did, unfortunately he is not my cousin and it is written as I am - and he is a member of the strategic world. That's what we're talking about, information asymmetry. Not only will he sooner, say, learn exactly when he will privatize Telekom, and he will be able to prepare himself accordingly. More than that, he will be able to influence how he will privatise to Telekom and be able to defend his interests. That's information asymmetry squared! Where is it written that such a person should not sit in a strategic world? And where it's written that he can - I'm not saying that he will, I'm not saying that he's a bad person, I'm saying that he's a capable person. How can I tell him in the future that he will not try to influence - why shouldn't he - so that the privatisation of Telekom xy or anything else would take place so that it could suit him better than the others? Where are the rules, gentlemen? Didn't Mercator teach you, or are you going to have to be taught by two parliamentary committees and beyond? Let us ask ourselves that this government, if you want good, is not only for today, but it should also be for tomorrow and tomorrow, which I mean literally, not in a transferable sense, and ask yourself where you are living and what you are doing today. That is why I believe that this law, unless the members of the LDS that correct the content are adopted, will have a final constitutional review of this law. We'll meet again in the Constitutional Court. And I think that the constitutional order of Slovenia no longer permits such domestic regulations and such indecencies as you are doing with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have responded to two expressions or respond: independence and perversion. I am surprised to hear from my colleagues in the Liberal Democracy that they are happy not to take such an amended law, because they will now have, instead of the so-called independent commission, a commission that will depend on the opposition in which most of the opposition and even the leadership of the commission will have the opposition. At the same time, in these independent bodies, there will also be a factor that will allow this body not to be "independent" - independent in narrations. In fact, the other party will also have the opportunity to warn, point out and propose that certain things, either by the prosecution or by the criminalists, be investigated and then resolved by way of a trial. So I don't see any problem here, and the paradox is that you still want to have an independent but probably very dependent commission or body, but at the same time you don't accept this option, which is actually unique in the current system. Most and the management of a body to identify the controversial functioning of public officials and all those who have the possibility of doing so in one way or another, perhaps, even as consultants transitory with internal information, to abuse this position, this opportunity they had. And that's all I'd add to it. I ask this authority that when they collect the data, they do not collect the data that the state has, but that we, public officials, are burdened only with those data that cannot be selected from public databases. Unless, of course, it is not the intention of us to write to the country known information, both from bank sources and from all other sources that are available, which are intended to be available to such authority, to verify the honesty of those who write about this data. However, I think that this path is more practical, that actual official data is collected and that they are trying to choose additional data, which may also indicate the suspicion of the contested functioning of public officials, of all those who are supposed to operate here undisputedly. Of course, it is already actually the work of criminals and prosecutors in relation to the police and law enforcement authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Once again, I am calling for an amendment, although some of the previous speakers who spoke before me did not follow the second, fourth, first and second amendments. However, I would like to point out that I have decided to speak again when I have listened to my fellow Member, Mr Ganttar. Mr Gantar said in his statement, in the debate that others must judge outside of us. I agree with that. This statement is correct and on the spot, and then I would also like to ask publicly why, in the previous term, when the Slovenian People's Party was also a party in the coalition, he strongly demanded, together with his own, that they support Dragos Kos as President of this Commission. And if a politician puts someone as president of the Commission - whether it is an influence, the political influence is direct, that others outside of us will ask about us whether there will be differences; and then, Mr Gantar, you did not follow, although today you find it funny, the demands of the Slovenian People's Party that it is necessary to find a person with broad support in compromise with the opposition as well. You didn't follow that! You walked like a tank through the coalition, and whoever's doing this in the coalition is a bad passenger for the coalition, and that's to warn others. It has to come to a compromise! And when you speak, Mr Gantar, when you say that there will be a data abuse in this way, if this parliamentary commission, if the law is passed, misuses, czech, data. I've been a member of one of those committees for nine years, and let one of you tell me one of you is that someone has misused such information. I am certainly telling you that neither when Jerovšek was chairman of the Commission nor today, when Terchoon was chairman of the Commission, did any of the members of the Commission, both from the opposition and from the coalition, abuse the data! And we also knew a lot about active Slovenian policy. A lot of data! We have not even heard from each other to discuss within the parliamentary groups the matters that we have discussed behind closed doors until after the seventh power. And we're acting professional and parliamentary. However, to whom confidential information is entrusted and sent to the public to discredit others, it is well known that it abuses its position and is in what process. Therefore, I would not argue that if this commission were to be set up, such data would be misused. And once again, I say fear is. Another fear, Mr Gantar, with whom I have introduced you to the committee, and I will read to you what the President of the existing Commission, Mr Drago Kos, has said. What I'm worried about is that none of you have reacted! Listen carefully to what Mr Kos said: "Our commission will form informal networks within a week that run Slovenia." Who, at this moment, led Slovenia, politically, economically, who did the chairman of the commission think? [[...]] I'll read it to you again. "Our commission will form informal networks within a week, which currently run Slovenia, but this is not within our jurisdiction. We'd do it very easily." Yes, "for God's sake," on what grounds? On what selected data can you draw up an informal network that now runs Slovenia? If you don't have the authority to collect such information! On the basis of those forms that we had to send as officials, about our property, about a wife's property, about real estate, and I don't know about any other business? Is it possible to make an informal network? I don't think it's possible, in my personal opinion. Based on what, then? Based on what data collected? Who's got that information? How did they come to this information? Once again, for a warning and for strengthening parliamentary democracy, I will read to you: "Our commission will form informal networks within a week that run Slovenia." Who are leading Slovenia right now! [[Back-up advertising.]] I can't do that, my colleague Bebler, because I don't have the data. Personally, this statement is very questionable to me how data is stored and processed, one or another, coming to the committee. And this requires a broad majority to support such or other presidents. We should also listen here on several occasions to some other matters in the National Assembly when it is elected by a two-thirds majority, including the opposition, and especially the coalition - without exception; in this mandate, in the previous one, and in the previous one, in a different way. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment under Article 2 to 4 - that the opposition has the president and the majority in this committee. And so it does, and the opposition must be trusted. It is necessary to work transparently and transparently.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I give you my word for the replica, Dr. Gantar. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u180	Because I was mentioned. First of all, I'd say the following, dear colleague Kangler. I must admit, Drago Kos is my friend, Dr. Drago Kos, professor of sociology at the FDV. We worked together for 20 years and this Dr. Drago Kos doesn't belong to football games and has nothing to do with this Drago Kos. You may have changed your preferences here. I have a friend of Dragos, but this isn't the Dragos you think it is, but it doesn't matter. As I know, his appointment was proposed by the President of the Republic, if I am not mistaken, not by the government, and that is a huge difference. The President of the Republic shall, in his own opinion, not necessarily take into account the Government's proposals or even the proposals of individual LDS politicians. Besides, I don't have any special preference for this, dear. Replace him if you don't like him! You've already replaced hundreds of officials, thousands of people on various committees and so forth, school councils. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] , hospitals, Mr. Virant, and elsewhere in Slovenia, from the Kobiliar Lipica forward. And replace Dear Hair, the head of the commission! [[There's a riot in the hall.]] A very pleasant company has gathered here, unfortunately there is no drink and will not be able to continue. In addition, replace the head of the anti-corruption commission with no problem, as you have already replaced many of them. We will tell our own, but we will not be surprised, for we are changing our frame, and you know that. So we don't have any special preferences here. Of course, clearly, I also believe that the protection and processing of this data and the storage of this data are very important because they are not public databases. Durs' database isn't a public database, and there's a lot more. But it will become public if it goes to such opposition, which has a majority in it, and personally I say, I'd rather have this information published on the Internet myself right now than roll around everywhere. And I have no problem with that. No, this commission does not guarantee professionalism and reliability. This independent commission, if there's a "feller" president there, "flies"; if there's a mistake here, what is that? Political responsibility. This is where we're gonna fight. And that's the big difference in the concept, and that's why this thing has to stand out of us. It doesn't matter who the president is. And I, once again, have no preference for the President himself and you can replace him if you think you've found a better one. For God's sake, however, don't stop because of some sweet hair. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u181	Mr. Gantar [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u182	- Not my one, Dear Hair, don't cut off the entire commission. [[...]] That's my message.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! I also welcome Mr Kos, who is accompanying this debate here from the balcony. It seems to me that we are repeating in some way today some of the debate we started when this Commission was being set up. I know that when we saw what powers this commission will have, we were very skeptical of the work of the Commission in the opposition at the time. I was kind of saying that we're getting into some heavy angina with some camel tea. And today, after a certain period of this work, we can actually find that this commission has done more or less the work of a data collector. What's more, of course, she didn't come from here. If this, across the thumb, were to speak as my predecessor, colleague Gantar, who spoke of several thousand substitutions without any argument, then it is possible for the Slovenian public to convince them of this or other. But at this point, I think we could put some things down here that, let's say, this commission hasn't called. The issue of the operation of the Housing Fund, for example. The other night I saw on the news that the former director, Mr. Owen, said, "I'm not rich, but I'm wealthy." And they've shown everything they can do. And when we read how this fund worked on some of its own standards, I wonder where the work of this commission is. Either she has done or the work of this commission has actually been in the sense that she has collected a bunch of data about the congregational councillors who had to fulfill not knowing how many sheets of forms and some are also because they receive a month of a few thousand meetings, they prefer to cancel their mission to the congregation councils to force them to complete 15 forms each year. I myself have received these forms as a municipal councilor, I think that at least three times at different addresses, and then I also had to do what this commission could obtain on official duty, send again and prove to this committee what my income decision is, etc. So, for such work, this commission also spent a lot of money, but it raises questions, if that's really meaningful and if that means preventing corruption. I'm sure and I'm saying no. With this, of course, I do not mean to say that corruption is not, it is absolutely present, but to prevent corruption, to suppress corruption, if you want, in order to eradicate corruption, of course, every country must have strong authorities, such as the police, the criminal service, the prosecution. One Commission, which selects some data and then on the basis of this data, suggests something to another body, but in fact, I am deeply sure, in such a form as it is not necessary. I also have one rather negative experience with this committee myself, and I have turned to this committee in one very, I think, disputed case. After four municipal councilors, together with the municipality, whose mayor is of the LDS species, established one company and then voted at a municipal meeting of the municipal council and reduced the municipality’s management share below 50%. At the same time, the congregation gave most of the money for the geothermal garden. I have asked Mr Kos if this is not a question in terms of preventing corruption. Except that Mr Kos came to me and discussed this matter with me, today, a few months after that, I have no message, no conclusion from the Commission! All I have is what I've had contact with this committee to this day, that I, and all the other councillors, have had to report some data with partial numbers, where the house stands, how big is it, how big is the credit, what kind of car I have and what kind of income decision I have, as I said before. So, I think that this work of the Commission is not encouraging, and it also convinced me that this commission, as such, does not perform the function for which it is supposed to be responsible, because on a direct message that I suspect something is wrong, in a few months I have not received an answer - not even that it is good or that it is wrong! Nothing, shut up. In fact, I can say firsthand that this commission has not done its job in this case. How the municipal councillors could vote in favour of a proposal in the municipal council - for themselves - and reduce the administrative share of the congregation. It was 180 million funds spent on geothermal energy research and would then have the same management share in this newly established company. So if it's not in some way something that suggests corruption, then it's nothing. I believe that a commission that will be otherwise appointed and will be accountable to this national assembly, which will appoint it, will have to react differently to such and similar matters if it does not, but of course the criticism here in this national assembly, when Members can also ask this or that, first-hand, such a commission when it submits its annual report. So, in this direction, I think that this solution, here in Article 4, is somehow balanced and good and I myself agree that this commission will actually be led by the opposition - we know who the opposition is at this point. And to return to the amendment, I think that this amendment of the LDS, which completely changes Article 4 and somehow reverses it according to the LDS criterion, is unnecessary and, of course, I do not intend to support it as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Although I note that there is a rather broad debate, a general debate, I would remind you, however, that we are discussing Article 4. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I firmly believe that it is the task of Members or legislative authorities to contribute to such solutions that will ensure an effective fight against corruption. Corruption is the greatest evil of society, and if we agreed to reduce pressure, anti-corruption pressure, then, of course, we would do very badly. In fact, I am surprised that some former ministers have so much knowledge about the fight against corruption, so much sociological and political advice and analysis as to how to successfully fight corruption, that it seems tragic to me that they did not benefit from this knowledge when they were ministers. In fact, today to note from the same mouth that a year and a half is not enough to say that some commission, which was set up after eight years of authority, could put some concrete results on the table that this time is too small, seems incorrigible to me. I think that this commission, which has been with such a pump and with such promises to start a real fight against corruption, could serve with some resounding results and gain public confidence. She did not gain that confidence, perhaps because the criminals who went to this committee had been involved in political intrigues before, but did not have a resounding effect on the persecution of economic crime or corruption. And look, I think the new commission, now as it is conceived, which will remain at the National Assembly, is just a little more likely. I hope that you will want to seize the opportunity to make this an opposition majority commission, such as the budgetary monitoring commission and the State Services Supervisory Commission. If you take this work seriously or do not resist it, it is possible to achieve results. I doubt that, because you have also resisted the introduction of the third television programme for the broadcast from Parliament, because, according to GLOPAC, this is the global anti-corruption organisation, the best means of combating corruption in Parliament. But you resisted it. I also have to go back a little bit to history. In this House, we have already had commissions on the determination of incompatibility, but they did not have any powers. But how you have trained them! Look, back then, in 1996, you put your colleague Puck in charge of such a commission, after that spectacular political offense. This is literally humiliating, because you know that there have been various rumours that he has not simply crossed: either under pressure or in some other way, by blackmail. And then put a man who is disarmed by such a political offense at the head of such a commission. With this, you have sent a clear message to the public about how you imagine things about incompatibilities and corruption. There is also talk of the possibility that Members will abuse data. There is control in such a composed committee. On the basis of my own experience, I am confident, as has already been said, that this abuse will not occur, but that there will be an effective interaction between the opposition and the position. Look, it is true that the commission I presided over had a real opportunity to influence elections in some important Slovenian municipality, in what important Slovenian town. And that didn't happen. If, he says, it seems subconsciously that they are obliged to do so as Members when they encounter such information. Of course, all the crime police have successfully remedied this, then these things have not come to the public and have not been activated. As a result, I think that this way, this commission set up in the National Assembly with a majority of the opposition, is a better approach. I don't pretend that I don't know what the results will be, but they'll be better than the Commission's past and more fear for these networks. When these informal networks were discussed by the current president of the anti-corruption commission, the disintegration of these networks is your greatest fear. We would do everything to preserve the power of these informal networks, which control Slovenia, even past current policies, to control Slovenia. In fact, some networks have begun to decompose, and this is a sign of alarm and alarm in your species. You are also opposed to this commission because you fear that informal networks that successfully control you and Slovenia will break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I don't know, Mr. Squeakle. What's the replica for? [[...]] [[background advertising]] Can I please say to the end? You have not been appointed, you have not discussed before, and this has not been the answer to your debate. It was mentioned "as a former minister", but there were three former ministers in this Chamber before, so I will not give you the replica and you will come to the debate shortly. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u189	Please, Mr. Dimitriy Kovacic, a procedural question. Please. Beg? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u190	Mr. Chairman, look. It is the fact that the Member has given the wrong facts. During this term of office [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u191	Please, if he can say it to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u192	In this mandate, the opposition does not have a majority in the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. No, it's not. So I would just say, I would like to explain to the Members and Members of Parliament [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u193	Thank you very much for explaining. You'll talk in the debate. Thank you. Please proceed, Mr. Dimitriy Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I'm actually gonna start because I haven't started before, so I'm not gonna keep going, I'm gonna start. I would like to add something else to the amendment to Article 4. There is too much talk about the independence of the body, why an independent body is being suspended. It is said that this is inappropriate to replace an independent body with an independent body. But I'm very curious if anyone can tell me or give me a definition, but what is an independent body, what is the independence of an organ? I imagine it depends on someone who's named him depending on what he called him. From this I can assume that this is some kind of independence. Now, if anyone has a definition, unless it's left to the LDS party, it's the one who thinks about what independence is, what an independent body is. If that's the case, then say it like that, but I can't take it that way. And if I speak of dependence when he appoints him in some way influences the appointed one, then, in the previous term, the National Assembly, by its majority, appointed the Commission, appointed the President, appointed the members, irrespective of the fact that there were different candidates for individual members: for the President and the Deputy, the President of the State, for a part of the members - the Council of Justice and for a part of the members - the government, but the one who appointed it was probably an influential element, and in this way this commission was certainly very much dependent on what he called it. Significantly more than this is proposed now that it is now called by all political options, not just one. And even the opposition has a greater impact on this committee than on the coalition! And in this debate there was also another talk about this, including saying that the United Nations Convention is the one that prevents or does not allow the establishment of such a commission as is now proposed in this law, but that if I consider that this Convention is not actually ratified, there is no reason or argument whatsoever for the fact that only this existing Commission is the one that is implementing this Convention. So that's very thoughtful of speaking, too. To a large extent, the debate by the motions for this amendment to Article 4 continued on the assumption that we should abolish the anti-corruption commission, although it has been said by several debaters and also by the minister, that we cannot talk about a commission which would have the power to fight corruption. Other state authorities have powers to fight corruption and we cannot mix these things. I don't know what it meant to have an external authority to control us or to oversee officials. I don't know what it was. I think someone might be able to say it even more precisely. But I certainly do not believe that such an external authority can be objectively obtained; it is always one of the bodies called by someone, and it seems to me that the appointment by the National Assembly is the most transparent form of appointment of such an authority. Finally, the fact that, on the basis of this existing law and on the basis of the functioning of the existing commission, the municipal saints ’ functions have resulted in a mass exodus shows that something was wrong. This is my scandal that this has happened, that more than 10 saints have resigned simply because of the operation or implementation of this law that we are talking about and that we are now changing. Thus, this should certainly be an alarm sign and also a reason for the responsibility of the one who adopted this law at the time and of the one who implemented this law on behalf of this Commission. Once again: the proposal for an amendment or amendment to Article 4 is certainly not acceptable and must be rejected because it substantially changes the concept which is to be achieved by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u196	Thank you very much. So, colleagues, what I would do first is to very strongly oppose colleagues in a position that dictates what else is decent for the opposition; who also tell the opposition what would be best and how best to do it. This, colleague Jerovšek, is absolutely imprudent and contradicted by the fundamental logic of the parliamentary system. It is understandable, however, that it is understandable in that segment when you used part of the opposition to propose this law. In this way, you have classified this opposition as acceptable, and the other is unacceptable. But allow the opposition to stand on its own feet and not to be allowed to authorize performances on your side. As far as Article 4 is concerned, it is necessary to say that there are two discussions here: one is about status and the other is about current President, Mr Kos. It is certainly a big step backwards if independence is lifted, or if Mr Kovacic wants, the independence of this commission. It must be independent in this respect that it is not only subject to the relationship between policies in Parliament, since, last but not least, it also assesses the conduct of the various officials and the conduct of the officials in the municipalities. The situation in the municipalities is significantly different, so that the argument that the opposition would have a majority here is not sustainable, since, last but not least, the positional opposition relations in the municipalities are different. It also does not hold in the segment where this commission is accompanied by other officials. It is therefore worth supporting the amendment that speaks, if you wish, of independence or independence from relations in the National Assembly. As for this offer you are making, say, to the LDS, which here strongly opposes it, the Social Democrats have already stated their position on your conduct, then I thank you in advance for knowing that you will also choose the only right opposition to lead this commission. It will not be the first time that the biggest opposition party will be prevented from leading such a commission because it would not suit you. I would like to serve you with the right opposition, which also serves you with this bill. It is a paradoxical situation that the government's minister is keenly defending the opposition's proposal. Paradoxically, there are virtually no such situations! Why is he doing this? Here we can come to the question that this is possible because the current commission is led by a former criminalist, Mr Drago Kos. I assume that the opposition has complied with those who would like to avenge Drago Kos or settle for his past work, perhaps because of Depala village. I regret that there is no Prime Minister here to deny it. I don't know if anyone would believe him. I wouldn't. But here we are on these issues of exchange, why it is necessary to go with the new law in this case - because you do not have the instrument to replace Mr Kos. But you don't have one, because it's proposed by the president of the country, or you would have done the same as you did with the chief of police and like you did with other officials. That is why it is necessary to say here that this is a highly distorted integration, I will say, of the personal motives of government officials with a rush in Parliament. I am protesting against this, and this is also one of the elements of the need to oppose this law. I can keep talking to you, but it won't help much. If you believe something of the opposition, and if you really want the opposition to ensure that when it comes to control, it does well, then be consistent with the end, let it choose its way. You're blocking our way of doing this in different segments. And here you're subjecting yourself to an instrument of control that goes, I'll say, over control of the position and the opposition in order to settle some old accounts. And that, I'll say, is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kovacich, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I was mentioned, namely, as to the independence or independence of the Commission. I have only said that there can be no fact that - or, as I would say: the property of independence cannot be dependent on the claim of you, Mr Školč, or your customers. And an independent or independent commission can't be if you say it, but it's something else, but it has to be an objective fact, although it's probably objective independence or there's no objective autonomy. Therefore, you claim this, the facts, circumstances and manner in which this Commission is appointed under the current law does not indicate that this anti-corruption commission was independent or independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u200	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to add my own piece to try, arguedly of course, to convince those who question the well-intention of the LDS amendment, so that I may at least overturn these doubts. Of course, when I listen to the debate you have recently been a bitter critic of everything that seems to have happened in the past period around the past government or the previous coalition, when a Jerovšek from the sharp criticism of all the events in the previous mandate is now turning into a sheep that in fact sees no corruption, at the time was the main focus of his political action. When Mr Štebe looks at me and makes him smile at my mouth, as he convinces me that we have a unique opportunity to accept a commission that would be independent, which we who are now in opposition would be leading, of course, running away and worrying about this seduction. So all of a sudden, those who had so much to say about this evil, so "the cancer of Slovenian society", forgot about this cancer and wanted to pack it in one toothless sheep or toothless cat - I mean pussy, as Mr Kos once said, who, apparently, is sitting here today. So, in this presentation, the best gentlemen of the ladies would not be speaking - to say that you have one person on the way; and this man is Drago Kos, that you would probably not be dealing with the transformation of this commission at all, but would be dealing with the name that needs to be eliminated from this story. Mr Virant, as Minister, in his various statements, even today, speaks about how the government is honest, open, transparent and so on. I believe that this can also be said about this government, because it has enormous or substantial technological means at its disposal, with which it can give its acts and documents slightly more transparently than the predecessors may have made available to the public. But the devil is in detail. For corruption does not appear publicly, does not appear transparently, does not appear, I would say, in everyone's eyes, but appears behind, in the background, in cabinets hidden from public observers, in sports grounds where golf clubs are brewing, or in dark inn areas where some stories are planned at the back. And so, if I understand correctly, Mr Virant demands that there be some kind of phantasm of trust that we trust the government in advance. I just don't trust her. It is not my government, I have not voted in favour of its representatives, I have not voted in favour of its members, and therefore I want to be the controller of this event, and I want to be sure that it actually works in a fair, open and transparent manner, as the Minister says. Let's say I try to illustrate with one case that was mentioned yesterday - it's a casino in Lipica. It is clear to me that the government with the first minister in charge will not accept the conclusion that this concession is given to the man who is Prime Minister's best golf friend with the Prime Minister - so, man, the prime minister who has in his office a consultant who happens to be the son of this golfer, that this son of a brother who happens to have just chance, with another Mariborian, gets a concession for the casino - not in Maribor, there is too transparent, there is too obvious - in Lipica, there on the other end of Slovenia. I don't have any proof, but that's what I think we should check and see if there's any connection back here that might smell like corruption if there's no other way. I warn on purpose and publicly that we are not so naive as to believe in this transparency, openness and honesty. Besides, it's not just the government. It's about all the officers, there's a lot of them, and I guess we don't believe that all the officers are sheep themselves, the greatest honest people in the world. Of course, there are people who are bleeding under the skin, and they must be aware that there is also a vigilant concern about their morale, misery, so it is undeniably better that an independent body, which is not composed of us Members, is an independent body composed of competent, professionally qualified people, that is, those who have been given a mandate through an authority that is called. In the debate so far, members of the coalition have actually spat on the LDS, as with the past law it was unnecessary and useless to examine the property situation of saints, i.e. at the local level. I believe, and the fact is, there must have been some bad solutions in this marriage. That is why we are in Parliament, and it is the government that has the opportunity to propose corrections. In this case, the government has not proposed corrections, it is not. With our amendment to Article 10, we propose to amend this law to exclude those who operate on the city council or in the municipal councils. And this is our amendment to Article 10, which actually denies your doubts and dilemmas or the obvious. The LDS therefore suggested that the law should be amended so that these officials would not be under the kind of magnifying glass that you thought was wrong. Let me illustrate this with a Maribor case, because someone said how drastic and what such a number is. Of course, this is not so much with these thousands of saints, there is something small, ten saints who have entered because of their interests are irrelevant to us to deal with them. In a Maribor case where 45 councillors have a city council, there is only one person who has emerged from the clergy because of the obvious conflict of interest, because he understands that he cannot start with the government or with state institutions. However, this exit has done the right thing, by its actions, by its policy, because it is the owner of the media house, it serves the government in a second way by the appearance of their ministers, by the emergence of their politicians in the first fighting lines and there they have leased the space they pay him, but it is already a matter of this story, which is called the control of corruption. What is such a national assembly commission actually going to do? As we have it, and as we will have it, it will be incompetent, it cannot be independent, it cannot be independent, especially if it is led by someone from the so-called opposition, whom we sometimes cannot really say anymore, which is why I think the function and purpose are completely depraved. Let me draw attention only to a few tasks that this body should carry out. So the law states that it performs analytical, coordinating, educational tasks in identifying and addressing the causes of corruption. It shall draw up integrity plans, etc., monitor and analyse statistics on the state of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, cooperate with the competent national authorities in the preparation and coordination of anti-corruption regulations. So, gentlemen, when we go into this form of establishment or control of this area, I think that this task simply cannot be performed and therefore one important part of the battle for corruption in this Slovenian space is falling into some injustice, without the right possibility that we can get to this data. And finally, people have actually started to trust this institution. The applications were, and doubts about some of the actions were, and it was obvious that this institution, that is, this body trusts, draws confidence, as did the police, as the internal ministry, because people are aware that this body, which is independent, has no political note, does not have a political sign, but they are aware that some institutions within the internal ministry or in the framework of justice are still somewhat politically marked and that they trust this commission and in fact to us, to you electors who have entrusted you with their vote, take the right to express their opinions, their doubts, their suspicions to the institution that trusts it. And lastly, if I add only banal comparisons, how will this commission spend a billion in six years of its mandate? So six years, a billion. What are the effects, if the climate is changed, so long as someone in this Slovenia is aware of the problem of corruption, as much as they are under this pressure, how much money will actually be saved from taxpayers when corruption does not occur, this cannot be measured at this point, but compared to these six years or a billion in six years, the effects on the other hand are much greater, thus this argument for the adoption of our amendment, which you are referring to, is that it is also falling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u202	My colleague Milan Petek baptized me as a sheep of humility during this term. I don't know what it is or what the facts are. I can assure him that I myself will have the same zeal and fight in the same way and fight against phenomena such as corruption in this society. Perhaps one of my colleagues can explain to you that even within the party's organs and there I warn the current authorities and current officials to be careful of the vultures, the mutilators, the careerists, the discolored limbs and the reins of the previous authorities that you send to our species or to us [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u203	I'm asking nicely for polite manners in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u204	sooner or later, he also revealed such things out loud. [[...]] This is because Jerobok does not need to be afraid that someone will be able to give him one tolar. I didn't go shopping, but they used to drug me a lot, and they wanted to shop with offers, and now most people already know that. So, dear colleague Friday, I think you may have figured it out, who isn't buying even when we were sitting at the Boršnik meeting, after that protocol, I don't know who was working locally, they put you in the third row, the second Friday, me in the fifth row so that we weren't among the influential. [[....]] And after this there local seating order I would say that you have ten times more influence on the structure in Maribor and that there were interesting layout in that seating order. So, dear colleague Friday, don't worry, I'm just asking you to keep at least as hot a fight against corruption as I was before, and I am still. Before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I cannot help but point out that this is an amendment to Article 4, that this is not a mutual debate and so on. We're Slovenian, not the British Parliament. Mr. Marijan Pojbič is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u206	Your Honor! The amendment to Article 4 of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the Management of Public Functioning with the gainful activity proposed by the LDS cannot be supported, because I am convinced that the Commission on the Prevention of Corruption did not justify its work during the course of operation, since it dealt with less important things than municipal councillors. The location of the state property, for example, money from the exchange rate in TAM Maribor, insurance company Triglav, SIB bank, Red Cross, Orion and this is still very large, these are the places of state property of great proportions, about which there is no spirit or hearing on this committee. I wonder why and why many of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are absolutely objectively asking themselves this question. Those who have set up a commission know exactly what powers it had to be given, I stress that you know why it has such powers, so now it is not possible to make excuses that it did not have powers. We want Slovenians and Slovenians, and we urgently need a commission that will not be politically biased, which will work unselfishly in the interest of all Slovenes and Slovenians, which will clearly point to major thefts and thieves, who for a long time have been successful in preventing these affairs and corruption, which I have referred to in the introductions, from being brought before the law enforcement authorities, which will punish and punish such swine thieves involved in them, and will also put them behind bars, not paying billions of dollars to deal with local community saints. I am convinced that the main task of the Commission is to prosecute the corruption I have talked about before. I therefore support the establishment of a parliamentary commission, which will be composed of legitimate representatives of the people elected in the current term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u207	Thank you very much. It's mag. Squeak. Get ready, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u208	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! If it wasn't for me, I'd be so amused. But it's a very serious matter. It is a question of understanding the independence and independence of institutions. Therefore, with regard to our amendment to Article 4, I would like to say the following. Trust in institutions was one of the key issues in building an independent state. Consider the example of an institution that we all trust. This institution is a currency, a Slovenian tolar and its independence is protected by an independent central bank. This is why Slovenians and Slovenians as well as other citizens invest money in the Slovenian banking system. We have established an independent institution by law on the basis of constitutional provisions. This institution is so independent that the proposed Governor himself is the President of the Republic and here an absolute majority of all Members elect and confirm the mandate. It shall have a mandate longer than that of Members and Members. Imagine how many Slovenians and Slovenk would still have money in Slovenian banks if, instead of a central bank, they set up a Starman Bank Supervisory Commission to oversee Slovenian banks. It would be a political commission, a political committee to oversee banks. This would mean that this institution, the Slovenian banks, would lose confidence. Therefore, it is a key issue to measure the independence of institutions with a degree of confidence in what this institution protects. And what the anti-corruption commission protects and is supposed to increase trust in us, in policies that take over public functions. Therefore, on the basis of the so-called report, we have submitted our assets at the beginning of the mandate and at the end of the mandate, we will resubmit our assets. This gives an independent institution an opportunity to look at changes in the property situation. We all know that in the recent story of the sale of certain shares of the capital company and the Slovenian Compensation Company, there has been a significant increase in the potential spillover of assets from one to the other pocket. We said that, of course, it was more than 3,000 housing units and it would be interesting to see at the end of the 2008 mandate who would have an increase in assets. What you are now proposing is that we will no longer have such a self-sustaining commission to prevent corruption, we will no longer have an independent body, but a select group will do so from you. Of course, the problem in this election from the National Assembly of the elected Group of Members and Members is that, in this mandate or obviously in this mandate, such a commission would not be able to act on its own because, even to the ordinary supervisory authorities by procedure, you have not been able to work with you, especially at the College of the President of the National Assembly, a normal majority. Therefore, of course, it was not possible to conclude a normal conclusion that we had discussed Mercator at a meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control. Understanding institution building and understanding the independence of individual institutions is, of course, what led you to suggest to your opposition colleagues a manoeuvre, which I call the abolition of an independent independent commission. I am pleased that, on 1 January 2007, we will be able to take over the euro and we will move the independence of the central bank from Ljubljana to Frankfurt, because then, of course, even in our dreams, we would not come to Starman's Banking Supervisory Commission and I would like to see this agreement with Article 4 of the amendment to Article 4 show understanding of the independence of the institution. Of course, you will now argue that the Commission is not written in the constitution in this way, as is of course the written Bank of Slovenia in the Constitution. However, we have made it clear in our explanation that we see the link and the role of this Commission in a similar role for the State Audit Commission. At the time it was established and established at the time of entry into the European Union as a condition for us to have played an important role in the area of free movement of goods and services in accordance with the Copenhagen criteria as a normal market economy. It ensured the legal security of service providers from public procurement, strengthened confidence in the public procurement system. That's true, they prove it. The differences in prices in tenders and contracts are 20% and in the 500 billion annual volume of public procurement, the impact of the functioning of the State Audit Commission is at least 100 billion per year. If, of course, we leave the anti-corruption commission to work normally or if we believe in the independence of the institutions, then I believe that in this mandate it would be possible to prevent active or potential factors of political influence as we have seen in the Mercator case, as we see in the case of A Banka, Dela, perhaps the Vrhnika leather industry, where something from the Ministry of Finance is moving on the Slovenian compensation society, so today the discussion is actually about the different understanding of the institution. The European Union has recognised us in negotiations on the area of budget, financial control and, of course, the whole operation as a country that meets the conditions. I must say that, of course, there were some key elements in the process. One of the elements was that we have a separate budget control office, unfortunately the Minister has left because, of course, this minister, as Secretary of State at the time, took the initiative to have such a separate budget control office, which we no longer have. We do not have a separate budget control office, we will no longer have a single corruption commission, I expect a replacement in the Court of Auditors, I expect a replacement in the Bank of Slovenia and, of course, we will have a country where there is only one master, a master who needs to be protected. By abolishing the anti-corruption commission, you are protecting this ruler and all those who, as Mr Jerovšek said, have fled to you. It is a pity that you do not understand that the issue of political corruption and corruption, as such, is so serious that it is necessary, in order to increase confidence in the National Assembly, to put into the hands of an institution that is independent of this National Assembly. This, of course, was the purpose of the existing law, but unfortunately that was the meaning of the law you are proposing. I regret this act, and like I said, if it wasn't true, it would be very funny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan has the floor. Get ready, Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, it's very serious. With regard to this Article, a number of things have been said, the talk has been that we are in fact only personal and said, leave the commission, and if you are not comfortable with it, change the person. You know, it's not like that. In the meantime, you also mentioned that if you've changed so many others about which you're the right master, there's talk of numbers, and I'll say it again, it's not like that. Dearly beloved, those who spoke this way have 40 pages of the volume, which was drawn up by the then government from 13.9.2001, which was good 9 months after the elections, and there are about 1000 names that the then government replaced at that time, 400 representatives of different worlds, 100 representatives of commissions, etc., 1000 names. I had one world to read, because there's a lot of names in here that are also present, so let me, just for a quick moment. "In the world of the clinical centre they are dissolved and this was done without any kind of session, simply confirmed by the government. They are dissolved - Dimitrij Kovačič, Janez Zajec, God King, Victory Tur, Matjaž Kočar, Jože Primožič, Marko Pogorelc, Marko Strovs, Berta Jereb, Romana Logar, etc. They are named - Mirko Bandelj, Franc Kočevar, Janez Kelt, Helena Kamnar, Jože Vidmar, Valter Drozg, Dunja Piškur Kosmač and so on. [[..]] A thousand names in nine months. Your Honor! This government has reached your knees, or has not reached the knees of that government, what it has done, how many it has replaced. This government can learn 24 hours from that government, but they can have 24 hours a day of "schnellkurs", and they will never reach the number to replace as many people as the then government, which was elected at the end of 2000 and started working in 2001. But in nine months, she made a list like this. It's a list she made herself. We didn't make it. We know all the names aren't in here yet, even for the time being. I also want to say that it is not good that what you have done yourself, or perhaps not you personally, the representatives you have supported to throw their sins before others. I'm not saying it was a sin, it was done, just not what you've been doing, that you're reading to others now, but that's not how you do it. The next thing I want to say is that independent and independent is not what you say it is, or it is not necessarily what you say it is. We've seen this a number of times in the last few days. It's easy, but it's not necessary, but it's not the only thing that's sacred and the only thing that's saved. As far as the National Bank is concerned, I don't know, but the Starman Commission would say, excuse me, Mr. Squeakle, it's a shame you weren't at the previous point. You told the representative of the National Bank that he was incredible because he said it was a high probability, which is a perfectly correct term. And now you're telling us that we don't believe such institutions, and we'd rather have a Starman commission. That's what I told you before. What you're doing, you're reading to us. We believed there in that case. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u211	Mr Petan, please narrow the debate to the article we are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u212	I'm done.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u214	But what I'd like to say is that a judge who wants to be in charge of the field is a bad judge. In this Article, I think that it was completely unnecessary for us to have read about the exchange and that if we do not like a name, it is not that easy to replace it. However, I could say that this was very easy for the government from 2000 to 2004 and so it made such lists. And that in nine months such a list had been produced, of course, in four years it had increased significantly. I'm not denying you the right that you took back then, you have it, just not your doing it to someone else. The garbage that you have before your own threshold is not to be thrown under another threshold, but to be put in front of each other. I'm not reading this. But I don't like that you're reading us what you've been doing. That's all I wanted to say about Article 4, because there was too much to say in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask that the debate not lead to the mutual reading of each other's old sins, but to focus on the article ahead of us, this is Article 4 and to the amendment. Mag. Squeakle's asking for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u216	a replica because I have been mentioned and because the Member referred to incorrect facts. First incorrect fact, since 1991 we have no more national bank, but we have Banka Slovenije. But it was true that we had a bank once, and because it was national, there were many problems with it. I was talking about understanding the independence of institutions, but of course we are implying that because you all believe that the lack of confidence in the domestic currency would greatly increase if control were exercised by the political commission in the National Assembly, because Mr Starman is a politician, of course I said that no one would think of doing such a thing. On the issue of trust in politics, which is another type of trust that we are talking about today, you have renounced this key independence of the institution to control those who need to build trust. That's why I'm telling you, if we pulled a parallel with the National Bank, according to yours, or with the Bank of Slovenia, then in 1991 we'd set up a committee to oversee banks in the National Assembly. And of course we would have a serious problem: in a year and a half, we would not have taken over the euro. And you are doing this now - an institution that has just begun to operate, an institution that we have also established to join the European Union, because of problems with political corruption, because of the garbage that moves between the thresholds of various political parties, if you want, this commission, its independence, you destroy. You are thus destroying the possibility of increasing confidence in Slovenian policy in this mandate. We do this primarily for ourselves or for ourselves because we do not support this law, a bad service. Therefore - if I complete my replica to Mr Petan - it is simply a matter of different understanding of what the independence of the institution is. And I tried to show on a plastic case what it would be like if after a year and a half of the operation of a single central bank that went to a lot of people, as it's called, in the process, they decided to end their independence. I believe that Mr Kos, with the form he sent you, caused quite a few gray hairs. And rightly so, it was necessary to make an effort and make a proper examination of the property and, above all, to know that once you have to submit the official documents, nothing can be hidden in the Slovenian legal order. Now this option will not be possible, because it is likely that such a form will change in the implementation of this independence of the independent corruption commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor and Mrs Majda Shirca should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to talk about what we are talking about today, especially about anti-corruption activities at the level of local communities or communities. I am of the opinion that much positive has been done here in the last period, that much has also been done in terms of information and awareness of people and officials, and in particular much has been done for greater transparency. Finally, there were quite a number of meetings in Slovenia where the content of anti-corruption law and anti-corruption activities were presented at the local level. This, however, has started to change a number of things in this area. I certainly do not agree with those colleagues who want to see everything positive, far from that, when anti-corruption works at the local level. There are many things at the local level that need to be monitored, because it has come to light and it seems that many do not understand well what anti-corruption action means at this level. Some people today feel that there is nothing wrong with all the windows in all public buildings in a Slovenian municipality built in the mayor’s workshop and wondering what is wrong with it, since man is engaged. Others believe that there is nothing wrong with the mayor in another municipality of Slovenia being the mayor of the morning, and in the afternoon he is still in charge of the municipal company, and I think that there are many such and similar matters, and some are indeed a matter of indiscretion and ignorance, and many of them are also ignorance in the slogans and, above all, I think, colleagues and colleagues that unfortunately, there is also a field of corruption at the local level in smaller sums and to a lesser extent a field where there is also a rich harvest. And here it seems to me that we should not leave the matter the way it was years ago, and I think that nothing has actually been regulated, and that the anti-corruption commission in this regard has acted very positively and could actually, if it stayed, have produced many more results. The fact is, and this surprises me that you are still insisting, and I think that, above all, the colleagues from the SLS have warned that they will be very careful here, but we have found that, according to my assessment and also the assessment of many other colleagues from the local level, it has been completely meaningless and meaningless that, on the basis of the existing law, we have collected data on the property situation of municipal saints and saints and also on their companies and published such lists, in fact in an official paper and banned their business cooperation throughout Slovenia and not just the municipalities. I think this is a huge exaggeration that has caused a lot of problems among municipal councilors, including business damage to some entities or certain companies run by saints, because politics in Slovenia is not very high-priced and many felt that there was something very wrong with such a company on the list where someone owned a company. And here I think it's extremely important that they are so stupid that we delete the matter without having to, but this is not in the proposal we have on the table. And still these companies will be municipal councillors, in fact the saints will not be able to operate. I think that if we limit it and it's hygienic here, then such saints who have companies and their companies should not operate within that municipality where they are saints, but there are no obstacles to competition on other public calls and other works awarded by the state of Slovenia. So I hope we can support this today and change that. Of course, I am also surprised that today there is so much talk about how you offer us, as the opposition, the Presidency of this Commission and the majority of the Commission. Of course, if this is the commission to which the opposition party belongs, the Slovenian National Party is also considered, then I accept the bet today that this commission will be led by the Slovenian National Party. Lead her now, and I'm sure that's the way it'll be in the future. And given what we can read, it's about acting on principle, ladies. This is a matter which has been publicly and medialy disclosed and, of course, it seems worth telling me also to Janez Janša that if I personally evaluate him, I have to say that I have a feeling that the victory of Jelinčič will be smarter and I am sure that even in this story he will receive this war, and that this story will be very well reinstated through leading the anti-corruption commission in the future and will probably lead water to his mill. So you may end up regretting that you are giving this commission to him and that it will be able to lead it. Of course, there would be only one question for the proponents and those who advocate the suspension of the commission. I don't think they're following him now. I would like to know, or answer, whether there is a country in Europe in which anti-corruption supervision is exercised by Parliament for the complex public sector. For once, I didn't see these answers. I am interested because we are doing so much work and comparing it to whether it is a unique one or maybe it is a practice somewhere in Europe again, so I hope that I will have an answer by the end of today's debate. Of course, I must say that I personally think it is funny, and I think that citizens and citizens will also look at us that way, that it is funny, that we will monitor ourselves. Parliamentarians, who are on the political trust scale, down there, we are completely down there, and of course we want to tell the Slovenian public how everything is okay with us and how we are actually going to keep some of ourselves in the public sector, parliamentarians and I think this kind of soap is funny, and in fact, I don't think the Slovenian public will buy it as some kind of solution that would bring into the fact that we really mean in Slovenia with an anti-corruption story, which is a big trust or a positive charge. However, I am also interested, and here I am asking the government, given that it is somehow predicted that Slovenia will ratify the United Nations Convention against Corruption, such a commission is independent, non-parliamentary as we will establish it, but independent under this Convention is mandatory and, of course, I am interested and I want the government's response, whether we will then re-establish a new commission. In short, whether we are deleting something today, which I suppose we will be reinstated this year and, of course, I find it really funny here that this coalition does not do so in a more sophisticated way. If Drago Kos is the problem, then we could quietly and transparently put him off without hiding behind the party of Victory Jelinčič, the Slovenian National Party, but we could do it transparently. Perhaps you are afraid of the European Union's response here, perhaps in a critical way, as it has been in recent days, it has also been discerned. But I think they'd cost us all a lot less and a lot less time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I reiterate that the debate is only about Article 4 and the amendments tabled, but it is clearly just a wish of god. Mr. Barovich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u220	She was the designated party that I belong to, Mr Joseph Školč. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Oh, I'm sorry, in Mr. Skolč's opinion, it is irrelevant, but what does the President think is the President who is running the National Assembly at this time? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u221	I can only say one thing: appointment is just a remnant of the past, but it is not a condition of the rules of procedure that someone may have a replica. The replica can have that one. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u222	Okay, I'm giving up the replica. I checked in on a regular, on, on interview later. Thank you. Remember what you just told me, no [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u223	Mr Barovic, this is a replica or you signed it up for discussion later.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u224	You obviously told me that I don't have the right to a replica because I'm not personally named Bogdan Barovich, but the client and our president were named. I'll wait and I'll tell you later. I stick to the rules of procedure if there are others.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs Shirca will now be discussed and Mr Stane Pajk will be ready. The rest of you, I'd like to ask for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u226	Thank you very much. A few hours ago, it was said that the amendment we proposed completely replaces the concept of law. That's right. He's replacing the concept. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u227	Please, Mrs. Shirca has the word, I ask you kindly for peace and patience.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u228	Let us remain faithful to him, because we are behind the proposal we were advocating at the time, in fact, it was also advocated by the then State Secretary and helped to shape him when it came to the law and the establishment of the anti-corruption commission. In this sense, I think it makes sense, of course, to follow the concept that has already produced certain results and which is required not only by our conscience, but also by Europe. Minister Gregor Virant today claims that the independent anti-corruption commission is a bluff, I am correcting myself, saying that it is a single anti-corruption bluff and this is a claim made by a government member who was building his campaign into the government on the idea that politics is corrupt, that officials steal and exploit their power. With his help, I repeat, there are rules that are no longer convertible today. Now Mr Virant also says that there is nothing to be afraid of from this government, it is said that such commissions do not need to be monitored, because he says that it works fairly and transparently, how fair and transparent Mercator's seemingly problematic case proves to be. Okay, the government has an ethical code, but this ethical code is respected. For example, the former Rector of the University of Ljubljana drew attention to the conflict of interest of the President of the Higher Education Council, Peter Jambrek, who was supposed to block the re-examination of studies of other colleges, where there is an ethical code and where such revisions are the current new solutions to be reduced to the State Assembly Commission. The delegation of powers of the Anti-Corruption Commission to this National Assembly Commission is, I think, and today, a number of times the farce has been heard. I am sure that, as a farce, they will also meet with warnings in Brussels, for example, the President of the OCDE Working Group has pointed out what will happen if the information he has in the abolition of the anti-corruption commission, which we know correctly, is what will happen, especially since Slovenia is awaiting a second phase in 2007 in its assessment of compliance with the OECD Convention. And he says he hopes that Slovenia will have the necessary institutions, mechanisms and so on. I, too, repeat the question of colleague Cveta: will you, in order to satisfy the very clear conventions and demands of the EU, create a new one in parallel? So where is this rationalization that you are now referring to? But well, that's one aspect. But there is another aspect, which is the next nonsense. Among other things - in addition to monitoring and managing the entire public administration - Members will exercise self-control and self-control. Of course, there can be extremely conflicting interests. I'll give one of the suspects for the case, but he's very typical. For example, how would Members react if there was a question of conflict of interest in this group, say, a Member, such as one who has concluded a contract with the government for 45 million, because the State has sold certain material goods, specifically, such as fingerprints of Slovenian money. The contract was worth 45 million, but these prints were the ones he acquired as a member of the Slovenian Parliament. Conflict and more is undeniable here. But how could such a group that could not be independent and could not act independently, especially if such a committee, for example, were to lead specifically this Member, who, by the way, also made a good deal with this law. In short, unlike my colleague, I am surprised that the government, which fears some truths, simply changes the rules of the game, says it does not want to face transparency - well, says it is in the name of rationality - and when it does not like one person, changes the law. This isn't the first time, but it's dangerous and it's also worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Stane Pike has the floor. Dr. Pavel Gantar will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u230	Your Honor! I cannot support this amendment to Article 4, because it puts the proposed law on the head and this law loses all meaning. There's been a lot of talk today. But most of all, I have been stabbed in the ears when it comes to Members, that Members are not able to control but that Members are very, very low on the popularity scale and so on. Let's ask ourselves why. I think that we Members are democratically elected, so Members should also be trusted. Indirectly, we can also ask ourselves this - then we do not trust the electorate unless we trust the Members. We go to the polls every four years, and then it's a punishment if we do bad work. As far as the existing commission is concerned, I have nothing to thank about it. The only effect she has made is that she has resigned more than ten, according to my information, about 60 saints in municipal councils. We're going to have election problems because people are asking if this is going to happen, I'm just not going to want to or I'm not going to run for local elections. This is one of the effects this committee has had. When this commission was formed, it was formed with such a pump as to eliminate all corruption within 14 days or in these weeks. I didn't have that feeling. I had another feeling that this is a misdirection to the public, and then, when we go through a variety of institutions, etc., another commission is formed quickly to throw sand in the eyes of voters and say, we have a commission and this commission will solve it. This commission, which has worked so far, has not produced these results. That's why I'm saying once again that I think this was a misappeal to the public. I think work, anti-corruption work is a matter of the prosecution and a matter of the police, where there are more grandmothers, is usually a bald child. I have to say again that I can't support this amendment because it puts things on my head and I don't want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Let me just refresh my memory that we're talking about two amendments. The debate is open on both sides. It's Dr. Paula Gantar's turn, and then there's the next mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u232	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will talk about both amendments and I would like very briefly to warn all those who feel that it is not that it is difficult to decide whether or not to tell what an independent body is, that you never know whether an organ is independent, etc. whether it is, but I would like to say that there are certain criteria that require that must be met if we want to talk about an independent body, and that this is not taken from the air as it seems to some. Firstly, such an authority must be distinct from the political body, in particular the legislative body, and must be formally separated from it. Its powers must be justified in law, it must have internal rules of the game and procedures established for the procedures it conducts. It has to be relatively independent when it comes to human and material resources and other resources, which means, for example, that if the National Assembly in the budget severely restricts it, it would already be an intervention in its independence. And it must not have conflicts of interest regarding the subject matter and must enjoy what we say is a certain degree of public trust. Such an organ is an organ of its own, and such an organ is being discontinued by you today. And don't be fooled by the fact that, in fact, independence in our legal order is informal and political and I would say, if you want sociologically, we can't withdraw. Of course, it can and such a justification has been given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I'd like to take a word with you, Mr. Mag. Branka Grims, and then there's Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! It is usually best to discuss arguments in politics, so I will only dispute it with a key argument, as I can understand it from the words of my colleagues in the LDS, thus increasing confidence in institutions and policies. The best arguments are always discussed with concrete cases and from history, which, of course, is very rich in the case of ladies and gentlemen from LDS, there are enough and too many of these cases, I will now leave with the various SIB Banks, the operations of housing funds, of all kinds, I will stick to the subject, so let's see how, in particular, in the case of obviously LDS, you represent an increase in confidence in institutions and in politics, which is now cited as a key argument. You set up a commission that you actually take all the powers away from it by, in a way, a commission to determine the incompatibilities of a certain function by carrying out certain activities, giving it a very bombastic address, a commission to prosecute corruption, and then putting a special person on the forehead. You also decide that, in order to increase your trust in the institution and in politics, you may have been listening to a person who, in the past, has obviously been following a journalist illegally, obviously in connection with him in the illegal way of certain documents, perhaps even listening to him, but above all it is necessary to say that a particular journalist has done nothing wrong, but wrote about the attack on another journalist and about very sad stories, how some of the LDS have again tried to discredit the war for the independence of the state of Slovenia, in particular with the event at the Holmec border crossing. And, so personally, you find it and put it at the head of this commission, and by doing so, you have increased your confidence in institutions and politics, and today you want to continue this policy, even though you have already received a formal mistrust in the elections, then a substantive distrust in the referendum, because you have tried to support government policy and experienced the opposite result from what you expected, and that commission has proven not only ineffective, but also extremely costly. That is to say, if you made one commission that is very expensive, which is obviously ineffective, because you did not give it to her as a politician at the time, and so you deliberately did it in such a way, and on top of that, you put on the forehead of a person who, even after the judicial authorities had considered it illegal to obtain information about a journalist, so you interfered with his human rights, then you increased your confidence in institutions and policies. Well, if that is their decision, I certainly do not intend to help them, and therefore I can say that I will vote both against the amendments they propose and try to continue the situation so far and, of course, I will also vote for a new law that will fix the matter at least where we can fix it, and this is to save quite a lot of taxpayer money and, of course, spend it useful where we can do it in the interests of all citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask you not to discuss specific matters and assumptions, but to discuss amendments to Article 4. Mr Bogdan Barovic is next, and then Mr Rudolf Moge will have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u236	Thank you, Chairman. I think I'm in the National Assembly, where there's a legislative branch of power, but all the time I've been following this debate, it seems to me that I'm in court, that I'm in the judicial branch of power, when one side accuses the other, when some people are accused of not being here, and when we're accused of being long and dark, like we're all criminals and the worst people. I, too, will speak past the amendment of Article 4 at least in the work that is permitted to me, like everyone else. If we do not value ourselves and say that we are doing what is right and according to our conscience, who will then appreciate us, other people. As for the debates and discussions around the Slovenian National Party, about the Victory of Jelinčič and so on. Whatever it is, it has been mentioned several times, the President of this party has done and what some think he did wrong, so we have a judicial branch of authority that will decide on it. No right has been given by this National Assembly to condemn a respected colleague, who has been since the beginning of Slovenia's independence in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u237	Mr. Barovich, I still have to warn you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u238	I'm going back to Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u239	It's not a replica, it's a debate. That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u240	I'm going back to Article 4. Article 4 sets out in the amendment that the tasks under this law to be carried out by the anti-corruption commission as an independent state authority, contrary to Article 4 of the basic article, in order to carry out the tasks under this Act, shall be the responsibility of the committee of the national assembly. I ask this highly esteemed National Assembly, who exercised control and who prevented corruption in the past 12 years. Either a special commission or a single commission, as provided for by the law of the Slovenian National Party or a proposal for a law. I wonder if I'm wrong that for 12 years there was only one committee of the National Assembly that did this, and suddenly it's not just one, there must be two, then I apologize to everyone if I'm wrong. Another time. As far as the amendment to the 4th Article of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia is concerned, the name of the respected colleague, who is conscientiously carrying out his work, Mr Kosa, is being abused. Mr. Kos is among us, and it's a shame that he's not sitting here, but he's burning there. And take it as a procedural proposal to invite him to this assembly, to tell him and give him the opportunity to give his opinion too, because he leads this committee. Regardless of the rules of procedure, I think it is fair and proper for him to sit between us and give his opinion and his experience. And as far as convictions are concerned, they have nothing to do with the amendment to Article 4, when we have listened to various debates. It didn't have anything to do with it. However, how many supervisory authorities do we have, because this is the most profitable branch, suddenly a special monitoring commission is needed, but when we know that they are in the past and that today many people are struggling with all the claws to be members of the supervisory boards of large companies, probably not because of the knowledge of how nice it would be to control someone, how it works, but how nice it is to put money in their pocket. But no one controls these. If we started with the charges, I could, too, and I would not ask why it is surprising, it is absolutely impossible against me, anonymous applications against the municipality of Trbovlje, the local community, spoke to a respected colleague of the Liberal Democracy about local communities, surprisingly, against the congregation of Trbovlje suddenly after we introduced the law. But I have made it clear and loud that Mr Kos has nothing to do with this. Nothing! And not to abuse his name. Why don't you invite him over here and let him say his thing? The Slovenian national party has been and will always be headstrong and will write what she thinks is right. She's always admitted error or failure. But she never admitted that she didn't mean right and right. And I will not allow anyone in this Chamber to abuse the name of the Slovenian National Party, that we have been abused, bribed, and I do not know what else. Our assessment is that there is enough for one commission to oversee corruption, as has been sufficient in the past period. But if anyone thinks that it is wrong, let him prove otherwise and not condemn us for any bribery or obedience or bargaining. But if this committee stayed, I'd go first and check out all the alleged deals we're talking about. Therefore, honourable colleagues and colleagues, the amendment to Article 4 tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is different in that first part from the article proposed by the Slovenian National Party in its proposal. If colleagues and colleagues have valid arguments against what it says here, then let them say so. However, I want them to be said after we have seen whether, indeed, in the past twelve years, it has not been like us, the Slovenian National Party, to propose in Article 4 of the new bill. If it was different, I'd be happy, and I'd be happy, even if it was different, just as it was good, to support it. But before that, it was good that there was only one commission, as stated in Article 4, which we put into law. Now all of a sudden, it's not good anymore. Above all, I ask the House of Honor to be respectful of ourselves. Everyone has a conscience, everyone knows what they're doing. I am convinced that we are working honestly and for the good of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And that one commission, two or three will never, ever stop what it isn't. Anyone with an honest and honest conscience will sit without concern without a commission or with three.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic, in two words I agree with you, if this comment is allowed, for the first time in respect of respect for each other, we are missing it, and for the second time also with regard to the presence of Mr Kos between us. But even though this would be possible under the rules of procedure, I am not quite sure, unfortunately I cannot put this proposal to the vote because, as I see it, we are not concluding. So he'll just stay on what he is. Mr Rudolf Moge is next, and then Mr Aleš Gulič will have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm very disappointed in at least three things. The first thing is that the parties, at least part of the parties that now form the ruling coalition, have been chasing corruption from question to question before the elections to the miles higher in each treatment, and that when they come to power, they will try to prevent it and show what they can do to prevent this corruption by gaining the leverage of power. Let's see, ladies and gentlemen, we have an excellent public prosecutor, we have an excellent minister of the judiciary, we have an excellent interior minister, we have an excellent police director, now we have a great head of the criminal service. So, all of this is here, and I've been expecting, given the predictions that people know more than I do in the previous term, that our prisons will be full. These trials are now such that these words and those judgments that were delivered earlier really apply. Colleagues and colleagues have also heard today about theft, about thieves, about unresolved problems, but not on our side, but on the side of the position, it has all things in its hands and I really don't know why it doesn't start acting like a position, but not as an opposition. Second thing. I will not judge the Kosovo Commission, this is not my purpose, but I can say with certainty that when we had only one commission, let it be 12 years, even though it was not so much that this commission did nothing in its entire mandate, it did not solve a single case, and now, if we do not accept this amendment, we force the situation before Kosovo. The Kosovo Commission, however, can say that there is still a presence everywhere and that it has made a significant shift in people's thinking as well. I will not define myself until Mr Kos's personality, because I have also read documents that I cannot say here, in accordance with the law on classified information. I apologize personally to you, Mr Kos, on behalf of those who have insulted you here, who have framed you, but I know that without you and even work without you there would not be this free Slovenia or this country in which we now live. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Last time I was walking with a dog at three ponds, I was stopped by a gardener and said, "Do you really have Members of the Net for a month of 500 grand?" I said, of course, some have even more, some have little less. She asked if you could live with it because you didn't have that kind of money put together for corruption. I asked why he asked. She says she has heard that you will deal with these things in Parliament and that you will supervise yourself whether you are corrupt or not corrupt. I said, I guess that's it. Then he says, if that is the case, then I am very sad, and I am to be such Members, who will vote such a law in shame. I, too, am ashamed of my fellow Members if such a law is to be voted on from a moral and ethical point of view because of the following things. This is the law that concerns us, too. And after this law, we will go back to overseeing ourselves. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Can a judge judge his immediate relative? Is it possible for a criminal to investigate crime in his family? Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is precisely because these procedures are objective that this cannot be done. And we will, unless we accept this amendment to Article 4, do the same for ourselves to seek corruption. If this isn't corruption squared, then I don't know what that square means either. It's not corruption, but it's the law that makes corruption square. First of all, the model he used to be wasn't successful. Secondly, we have a model that's successful in marriage and now we're just going back. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Look, if I'm in power, but first I'm going to submit to the media, and then I'm going to hand it over to a committee that can look down on me for corruption, and then this thing leads into one very strange country like this. You know, if power is afraid of people, then it's democracy, but if people are afraid of power, and that can happen, then that's it. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u243	Please, this is not a public tribunal, this is a parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u244	Then it's a dictatorship. And that's what we're witnessing. If we vote this law, honourable colleagues and colleagues, if this amendment is not voted absolutely against, we will make this law a violation of the Member's reputation if this law is to be voted upon, if this law is not to increase the Member's reputation, and whoever goes before their constituents is the one I was to control myself, that is to say, as far as corruption is concerned. This is the essence of this disagreement in which we are fighting the position and opposition. The position says that they are reputable, that they are respectful, that they want to cut things somehow, and we say, on the other hand, that if we do not accept that such a law is not what would lead to that goal. It seems to me that if we don't accept the amendment, we will have a marriage, because once our southern brothers said, "kadja sued, kadija sued." This is why it is about this case, and think about, respected colleagues and colleagues, in front of themselves, it is about us, it is about our morals and ethics of Members, what you will say if such a law is passed to their constituents and how people will look at the national assembly, if we do ourselves under the direction of this benefit, that we will supervise ourselves. That's why my vote for this amendment, if I could be double, I will support it, unless it's supported by people who have chosen us all the right to be even lower on the trust scale than we've been registered to. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support this amendment if there is a problem in the committee that the commission should change its legal basis or do something else, but let us not go back to trying to undermine the reputation of a member of the national assembly by means of cheap demagogic receptions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u245	Thank you very much. In view of the foregoing, I cannot say or express my desire that the spirit of one of Benjamin Franklin’s fathers of democracy be present in our temple of democracy. Mr Aleš Gulič is next, and then he has the word Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u246	Respected and respected! I am in favour of supporting and implementing the amendment to Article 4 for a simple reason, because it is not hygienic, it is not normal to control ourselves. I have no bad conscience, I'm probably too expensive to be corrupt, so others can control me. And I think it's also normal for others to control people who can be involved in anything. Now, if there has already been such a single, single commission of ten, eleven years and has done nothing, then it is quite clear why it has decided to set up a corruption commission led by Mr Kos. Her life has not been very long now, and therefore I find it quite critical that she is expected or expected to save in a bad year, I do not know what. If he doesn't have the authority, let's give them to him. If this control is too extended to municipal councillors and I don't know where, it can be arranged with other amendments, as the Liberal Democracy is trying to do. Mostly to talk, obviously. It is not good, however, that all the authorities are actually uniting now at one point, and at one point I have the feeling that this esteemed congregation is also becoming a kind of congregation that just confirms the decision of one authority. This lowers our value and, of course, lowers our reputation. It is clearly a strong intention that the reputation of Parliament be reduced every day, and every day the reputation of parliamentarians is diminished. This is clearly the way to work, not only in this marriage, but also in others. Not only in this relationship, but also in the relationship we experience on the committees and in the commissions. It seems to someone that Parliament would actually become just one kind cat that would pass on a winter night, something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič now has the floor and it is Mr Sašo Pece's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u248	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It was also a big surprise to me, given the day-to-day, full-night, long-term debates and indications of the extent of corruption in Slovenia in the previous mandate, what the government has shown to this issue, because it has not actually upgraded what was done in the previous mandate in a year, but we are witnessing today the consideration of one of the legislative proposals that repeals the Commission, which abolishes the independent state authority, which it certainly is, and if we only follow the opinion of the legislative and legal service that when this content changes, it is not just a matter of change, so that the change does not only replace the holders of the statutory tasks but also changes their scope and nature. And here is the key content that we are all discussing today. It looks like the opposition is always engaged in fighting or reducing corruption, at least that feeling can be gained if this content has been used by the previous opposition, the ruling coalition today does not build on this system, because when we talk about issues relating to anti-corruption issues, we are certainly either looking for short-term or long-term solutions or looking for political solutions or looking for professional solutions. And whether we're for repressive approaches or we're for preventive action. And, of course, the long-term, professional and preventive effects and measures certainly require the creation of an independent expert body, and that is why my decision will also go in favour of this amendment. Of course, I agree with all those who say that today, when we talk about this issue, we also talk about our reputation, we talk about the reputation of this institution, we talk about the reputation of each individual. And with these travels we also come into our environment, we are a model in a certain environment by our conduct. And it would be very good to come there with a clear view that, of course, everyone with consensus, both the coalition and the opposition, we are committed to fighting and reducing corruption, because I am sure that this example can be followed, influenced and acted by our colleagues in their local environments. Of course, I reserve that it is impossible to control the controlled ones, for in the role of controller or controller each of us can be found and, of course, we can ask ourselves what will be the effectiveness and effect of such control. If I say one more thing when I ran for office in these state-run parliamentary elections, mine against a candidate of one of the coalition parties of the Slovenian Democratic Party actually accused and argued at all public meetings the role we had and would not say the fight against corruption. Of course, I am here today to say that I am advocating that efforts continue in this direction. Of course, given that he failed to attend the National Assembly and that he was making progress in the workplace [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u249	I turned off the microphone. Thank you very much. The last one on my list is Vice-President Peca, of course we are talking about amendments to Article 4. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your time. During today's debate, the green thread is particularly related to the amendment, which at this moment has always been a question of corruption potentials. The fact is that this moment has not taken place in recent times since the Slovenian National Party introduced the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy and the Joint List of Social Democrats, which there is not one at any given time, you have caused Slovenia to be envious, or envious, however you wish, depending on how it suits you, especially the capitalism of this place on the basis of global assessments. And now that the Slovenian National Party comes up with a legislative proposal on how to change things, how to improve the situation, we hear from Mr Školč, Mrs Shirce and similar, loud speakers from the former government, how the Slovenian National Party is trying to destroy everything. Maybe it's true to destroy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u251	Comrade Vice-President, Amendments, debate on amendments, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u252	I'll be right with you. I'll be right with you. How do we destroy it? Yes, destroy your work so far, that's the work that pushed Slovenia to this point where it is today. And in connection with the new commission, or the abolition of the old commission, ladies and gentlemen, in the National Party, we never sought to set up a commission because of the Commission, so that any apparent problem could be solved by a virtual commission, that was your practice, that was not the practice of the Slovenian National Party, that was never the practice of the Slovenian National Party. We are looking forward to something new, and we are offering this new in the framework of the law, and we are supporting this new in the framework of the proposed amendment. We support it. Of course, I believe it pains you because there will be a new body that will be able to control all your actions, but not like now that you've been protected and no one in this loving country has, unfortunately, been able to prove anything. And allow me to touch in conjunction with the existing amendment to Mr Gulic's speech. He said twice that we cannot expect the expected effects in one year. Yes, please. What a state institution doesn't produce results in one year. Does it mean to you that you're really doing everything on super long terms? It means the effects can only come in 10, 15, 20 years. And here's the difference between you and me again. You advocate solutions that will take place over the next 20, 15 years. We advocate solutions that will come into play today and here, and we offer them through the existing law. And we believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is offering this through an amendment or amendment. Gentlemen, there is a fundamental difference here, so don't accuse the bill's proponents of something, say, immoral, which I've heard many times or many times through the speaker, but try to understand, your time has simply passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to support the amendments myself, because there are more reasons that prevent me from doing so. The first cause is the results of all the investigative commissions so far. They may have found something, drawn up files, and then put them in a closet somewhere by analogy with Judge Railroad, or they may have held on to the fact that every piece of shit is not a crime yet. As ineffective, they may have been very similar to Alan Ford's comics, from the office for "seeking ore and wasting time". Then the target population who chose these commissions. In particular, municipal councillors were dealt with. In the latter case, 6,000 people and the greatest sinners were dealt with, and the greatest potential violators were municipal saints. Following the implementation of their predecessors, they were so intimidated that even some have stepped down or it will be difficult to obtain candidates for the next local elections. Of course, large fish remained intact or were not discussed. I've also been stabbed by a way of collecting data lately. The data already available at the institutes had to be re-submitted, namely first, the appropriateness of the forms. We got a whole file of different forms that had to be filled out and maybe were the only three personal data sheets, because the whole list where we were supposed to put the shares and so on was irrelevant, because that's multimillionaires, or some Onassis here we're not. In addition, there is no indication of where the property in the socks, the assets in the hidden accounts should be entered, nor has it been seen. More was a photocopy of income, car data must also be in an institution somewhere, as it has to be registered each year, data on the property of officials are also in land books and relevant other documents and can be obtained easily. Therefore, the form is thicker than a small phone book, filling in and sending to the Commission. Well, maybe you should mention that, too. But who's investigating the commission because there's a known illegality regarding journalist Ranec. Who was investigating them, anyway? Where was the case? I will not support all these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Kovacic has the floor and then Mr Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u256	Thank you very much. The debate has shown that Article 4 is a key part of this Act. It has also proved to be the greatest motive for the LDS to maintain the current commission at all costs or in any way to maintain it. The talk is about independence, about the independence of this commission, the main evidence that this commission is independent and independent, but that is what the LDS party is saying. It would be very interesting to put yourself back in the time when this commission or this law was adopted. At that time, the LDS party, as the strongest member of the then ruling coalition, put this committee to its own accord. To control himself, or to control the government of the day. When the adoption of the law was decided, and later when the decision on the membership of this commission was taken, the opposition strongly opposed both the law and the establishment of the commission. So if this commission, as stipulated in the law, were so independent and independent, then the opposition would probably support and accept this with open arms. But that was not the case. This was adopted in such a way that, despite opposition's opposition, a decision was taken. So, speaking of independence and independence, I think it's very unserious. Of course, at the time, the LDS government wished that it had set it up, regardless of the opposition's opinion. Now that she's alone in the opposition, she speaks differently. It speaks of this commission as a matter of everyone's interest, because of the interests of both the coalition and the opposition, and this is probably a major misdirection. Last but not least, if, after one year or more of this commission's operations, the only result is that six, approximately 60 municipal councillors have resigned because of these bureaucratic procedures and the sending of these forms by various officials, then I think that this is also a result that says enough for itself, so this amendment to Article 4, which is a key part of this law, I do not think we should support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac has the floor and it is then Mr Pece's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u258	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable present. My intention today was not to discuss much, but in front of speakers mainly from the Liberal Democracy, I was led to decide to apply for the floor. As has already been heard in the Slovenian National Party today, we are opposed to the Commission being set up to reveal something. In particular, because, in the previous term, when it was ruled on the one hand, the opponents on the other side of the Liberal Democracy have learned that the Commissions have been set up to cover up certain facts until certain irregularities have been covered up. We have heard quite a bit, and if I refer to the amendment, the first paragraph of Article 4, the tasks of this law are carried out by the Anti-Corruption Commission as an independent state authority. In my own way, I will say that I somehow understand the efforts of the Liberal Democracy to remain this Commission as a single state body today. From this point of view, we have also listened to the revelations of the indemnity of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and I must correct some of the speakers, especially in the sense of the amendment you have proposed, says the Commission as a stand-alone state body. Not long ago, I think he is just a representative of the Liberal Democracy, today the leader of the Liberal Democracy Group in a public statement said that corruption is not in Slovenia and that we do not need such an anti-corruption commission in that country. In the meantime, the efforts of the opposition at that time were innumerable, mainly by the Slovenian National Party, that corruption is in Slovenia and that corruption must be infested, but not by the then authorities, the then 12-year-old authorities did not want to hear it, but if we remember a little more about history, we can also remember why not. The affairs such as the Red Cross, Elan, NLB Sigma, the fund for the construction of the new pediatric clinic, Viator Vector, Falcon, Zbiljski Gaj, Triglav insurance company, and some of them could be listed by what gentlemen in Liberal Democracy didn't want to set up separate commissions as a state authority, then you didn't want it, you just didn't have any interest, of course, it filled pockets and if such a commission existed, these pockets would be a little more empty. Today you're kind of speaking out here as the biggest advocates of anti-corruption, against what, in fact, you picked up what you could get.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u259	Mr Zagorac, please, without charge and concentrate your debate on the amendments to Article 4, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u260	I'm just explaining why [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u261	I think your debate is going too wide. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u262	That this commission is necessary today, why was this commission not necessary at the time? I understand, as long as you had your own benefit, this commission just didn't seem necessary to you. Today, you try to have a commission here as an independent body. The Commission, we already have an anti-corruption commission in the National Assembly, the people who make up it have been given a mandate from people, which means they have been given a mandate on the basis of the highest representative of democracy, that is the people in this country. If you don't trust the people who elected you, all I can tell you is whether you're done or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u263	Thank you. Vice President Peca and then Mr Zagorac, pardon Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u264	Thank you. I think that you basically unfairly interrupted colleague Zagorec when he tried, at least after my assessment, to show the system in our country in a very good way and, above all, the thinking of some about this national assembly. The president of one of the opposition parties, in our case the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia said a year ago and a few months ago, there is no corruption in this country. Remember the Members who were with me in the previous term when we tried to bring the opposition in, and after a long fight, we also fought a meeting around an extraordinary meeting in connection with customerism, money laundering and corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, it is you who are the loudest today that cried out at the time that it is not in Slovenia that Slovenia is an honest, clean country. But let's see what you're defending today in your amendment. In your amendment, you advocate some institute, one of the many that you have established in your past ten and several years, the result of which is zero. I am correcting which result is only one, that is, that on so many and so many titles they have sent out a form, sent out a form, and that is what you call the fight against corruption. While only one of the representatives of the Commission was already present during this period, and I will not move away and disseminate the content, the Liberal Democracy was clearly linked to the cinema. In fact, you can not guess who Mrs Shirca is, but in fact it is only later that the government has made this place order and justice. And it is you who are hoping to say that the Slovenian National Party, which wants people like you, Mrs Shirca, to step on your fingers, say that we are trying to achieve counter-effect, please, away from this. In a year and a few months, the existing Commission has sent out forms, if we call this fight against corruption, ladies and gentlemen, then it is better that we have nothing in this country. Indeed, the fight against corruption in our country has proved to be ineffective. There's corruption here, most likely in the National Assembly. I've even said a few cases before. But don't fight her the way you've been used to it for 10 years. We are offering you something new, so we must by no means accept the addition of the Liberal Democracy. The addition of Liberal Democracy would lead us back to where we were to be placed in the world's very peak of potential corruption. And, of course, the use of corruption. That's the problem. If it did not follow this path as you suggested, then let us leave the reason why it was a deliberate path of inefficiency, in which I strongly believe that it was only a rather poor grasp of the rule of Liberal Democracy. Let's try something new, let's try in this direction to finally set up one authority in which central decision-making will be, which means that it will have powers, and later this body will not be able to refer to what you today are calling for, despite the full budgetary little, we need to see that the existing so-called anti-corruption commission has large budgetary revenues. In return for these budgetary revenues, as I have said, and for the third time, I hope that it will be sufficient for the last time, is the only result of the distribution of forms, the distribution of forms, and then, after my assessment, he was found worthy of respect by a legal expert who challenged it. So things were happening with the left hand and also according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party in a way that protected you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u265	Thank you very much. A colleague of mine, just a comment. About an hour and a half, I am conducting a meeting and most of my energy and effort to narrow the debate down to the amendments to this Article 4, so I do not think I have done anything unjust in the case of my colleague Zagorec. But it's hard. I would also like to invite Mr Barovic, who is the last of the debaters at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u266	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be very specific. In the amendment to Article 4, tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the fourth paragraph is: the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission must have at least a university education. Okay, if that's the case. At least ten years of work experience. Okay, not where or why, I doubt that request, but let it be. However, the essence of Article 4, paragraph 4, of the amendment is: and persons must be worthy of public confidence to perform their functions in the Commission. Who will determine, assess and say that the person concerned is worthy of public confidence, and in particular I refer to paragraph 14, which in this amendment is worthy of public trust, we place a committee within the national assembly to be worthy of public confidence to breathe a collar for that person. I mean, if this isn't nonsense, then I'm sorry, there's no more nonsense in this world. We demand, in the fourth paragraph, that the Liberal Democracy demand a person of public confidence, 10 years of work experience, at least university blah blah blah, and in the 14th paragraph, that the Commission of the National Assembly appoint a person worthy of public trust to breathe for the collar and supervise it. Imagine that for a moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs Shirca, I regret that I cannot give you my word because the replica is included in the debate. Thank you so much for understanding. So I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss the two amendments that have been tabled under Article 4? Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u268	I would like to stress once again the aspirations of the Liberal Democracy Club. The focus of the Liberal Democracy Club is once again on the multiple commissions for the resolution of one and the same, a year ago after their assessment of the non-existent phenomena in our society. So a year ago, corruption in our country had not yet existed. These were the words of the Prime Minister, now and today, the leader of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy. And a group of people who faithfully follow this leader of the parliamentary group today would set up two commissions for a phenomenon that does not exist. First, as the so-called autonomous body that would continue and distribute annually, exclusively distribute, nothing else and probably also accept, I apologize, data from municipal officials. In return, I would have received hundreds and several million Slovenian tolars. On the other hand, we would still have a so-called National Assembly commission to serve itself. This is a plan of the Liberal Democracy and this is the content of the amendment to Article 4. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, if we really want to direct our activities, our aspirations to fight corruption, in the fight against connected persons, as I said earlier, for example, Mrs Shirce and the cinemates, we cannot accept the amendment to Article 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u270	Thank you for your word, this time for real. However, I cannot not mention one more, excuse me, under the slogans, stupidity by the Liberal Democracy when it reads in the second paragraph of Article 4: "The means for the functioning of the Commission shall be provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Commission. The Commission shall decide independently on the use of budgetary resources." Billion is the one we're talking about. A billion is the one that this commission would have with. And so far, the self-sustainment of this commission, which would even justify the title of spending, has been that it has distributed, as we have already heard today, forms to report the assets of a single state official. And even there, it wasn't cost-effective, even though the state's trying to be cost-effective. From my experience, I can tell you that I received forms in three titles, the first was a national assembly, the second was a home address, and the third was the municipality of Maribor. At three addresses, I got forms to register my own property! And that's saving the country? This is the way to save money, as established by the Liberal Democracy. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Again, certain strong expressions also do not lose their offensive subtone under the nicknames. So I'd like to ask for Mr. Ziherl. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I myself would have confirmed this danger, for I myself received forms in four addresses, e - mail, in the National Assembly, in the congregation, and in the home. Thank you. And that also, it's pointing to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u273	Mr. Ziherl, I haven't given you another word. Please! I can point again to the rules of procedure, where all the rules are written. I'm asking you to hold on to them. Thank you very much. I note that the debate on the amendments to Article 4 is concluded. In my debate, Mr. Minister, would you like a word now? [[...]] Mr. Secretary has the floor because he can sign up whenever he wants to. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u274	Thank you very much. I'll be very short, just two, three points.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u275	I'm asking nicely for your attention. Only Dr. Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u276	Thank you. First of all, I find that the smoke screen still works. Instead of devoting an hour, two, maybe three to some topics that are really interesting and really important in this law, such as the question of public property of officials, where the law goes as far in openness and transparency as I think no other European country has gone, instead we are discussing the commissions, whether one or her or a third commission will perform some of the tasks that the law requires. That's another thing. There's a lot of bluffing going on. I do not believe, at least for the majority or for all those who have discussed how the current Commission prevents corruption, that you actually believe in it. Dr. Gantar, I'm directly replicating. I don't believe, I think he's a smart man, and I don't believe that this commission actually prevents corruption, because this commission deals with the incompatibilities of public functions, deals with the limitations on gifts, lists of gifts and deals with collecting, as has been said many times, the forms on which officials report assets. This commission does not deal with corruption cases. Because the police and the D.A. are involved in corruption cases. If this commission receives a report in its own hands, information about the suspicion of a corrupt act is her only chance of handing it over to the police or the prosecution. And today I have not heard, not even on the labour force, that anyone would think it would be right to give the commission the powers of some kind of police couple or a couple of prosecutors, i.e. a parallel prosecutor's organization. If anyone thinks that we are actually preventing corruption through this kind of bureaucracy under the authority of the commission, then he is seriously mistaken, even though I say again, I think it's more or less a bluff. The impression that we're trying to prevent control. First of all, I must react strongly to the instigation that I have declared that this government does not need control. I said this government isn't afraid of control. Every government needs strong and effective control. The second is if I say he's not afraid of control. What I'm saying is, there's no problem with control. And once again, I don't believe you believe that by transferring the commission's tasks to the National Assembly Commission for one small thing, it reduces the possibility of control of power. With this law, we give the opposition this power to hold the majority in the commission to lead this commission dealing with the things the so-called anti-corruption commission is dealing with today. Do this surveillance, seize this opportunity, do the work for which you are paid as an opposition. As far as credibility is concerned, I think the matter is clear enough. The previous coalition, the former government, has set up a commission that has been named by its will by a simple majority in the National Assembly. By the way, I at that time opposed the establishment of such a commission and such a law as the Secretary of State for Home Affairs. And now you think it's logical, and you would expect a commission like this to be called by a majority of people to be a little more friendly than someone else. And now you expect this same commission to work further, probably still a little more friendly to those who have called it and a little less friendly to others. However, we want that control, which is meaningful, assets, gifts, incompatibilities of the function, to be carried out in the National Assembly, in a commission that operates in an open, transparent, democratic manner and in which the opposition of the President and the majority of them is held. If we were truly afraid of oversight, would we then trust or allow the majority of the opposition in this committee?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u277	Thank you very much. As we say, we continue with the debate on Article 4b, namely the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS sent groups. Who wants a word? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group or the Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u278	Thank you so much for saying that. Therefore, this text of the amendment is absolutely unnecessary, as the current text already achieves this objective as it wishes to be achieved by this amendment. Indeed, provision of Article 10 of the second paragraph, regardless of the fact that what is proposed here is not recorded, has already been taken into account. Furthermore, in the event that we wish to write this down in Article 10, we should also write this in Article 7 third paragraph and therefore such an amendment is totally unnecessary because it does not modify or supplement the existing text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u280	Thank you for your word. I'd like to raise one question. I'd like to ask the Minister to answer me later. As part of his reply to the amendment to Article 4, the Minister replied on the majority leadership of the so-called opposition in the said commission, and would ask if, in the context of this amendment under order number 2, where does it actually say that the opposition has a majority in the said commission? For once, I stress, in the SNS Parliamentary Group, we assess: "To carry out the duties under this law and to exercise control over the implementation of the provisions of this Act, the committee of the National Assembly, composed of the President, the Vice-President and 5 members, is competent." So I'd just like to ask you about the relationship you set a little earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Dr. Virant, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u282	Thank you. Yes, of course, the substance of the amendment is that it changes the number of members of the Commission, which was previously the President, the Vice-President plus 6 members in total 8, which is now, the President, the Vice-President and 5 members in total 7, and in the second sentence this same paragraph states that the President, the Vice-President and the members shall appoint a national assembly from among the Members and three members of the Commission, which means that, together, the four members of the Commission belong to the opposition, the President and the three members, that is a total of 4 out of the 7 members, that is the majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u283	Thank you very much. I'm guessing there's no more debaters. Mr Kos, according to the rules and rules, unfortunately you should not be present in the hall, thank you very much. I apologize, but those are the rules and I must respect them as chairman. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Let me just remind you that the supplementary amendment of the said groups, namely the deletion of the third paragraph, has also been tabled, everything else remains the same. Anybody want a word? Thank you very much. I'm guessing there's no one. I conclude the debate on this amendment and Article 11. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and SDS, NSI and SLS of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u284	Your Honor! In connection with the content of the bill proposal and in connection with the quotation referred to in the amendment to Article 20, this is from my official duty to receive only information from the Minister on the duplication of the role of the Commission within the framework of the Judicial Council. Whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the amendments tabled on the proposal of the law, imagined that the Council of Justice would represent a supervisory commission over the National Assembly. The fact is that, in the framework of at least the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary groups, we only advocate one commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u285	Thank you very much. I take it he's not Mr. Minister anymore, do you want a word? [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u286	Thank you very much. So this is an amendment, not actually a government amendment, but an amendment to the amended bill tabled by the parliamentary groups, which is a response, a warning to the legislative and legal service. It is, however, that the tasks performed for the other officers of the Commission of the State Assembly for the officers of the judiciary are carried out not by the Council of State, but by the Judges as officials.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u287	Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u288	I believe it is right for us to clear up certain indiscretions now and here. So if I understand you correctly, Mr. Minister, then it is considered that the powers are very separate. Hence, we do not have a priority and secondary role or superior and subordinate role. Thanks for the explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u289	Mr. Secretary, would you like a word with me? [[No, no, ……]] You don't want to right now. Thank you very much. So, if there are no more debaters on this amendment and Article 20, I conclude the debate. Please hold a few more articles and the debate will be closed. We are moving on to Article 23 and to the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS. Who wants to discuss this amendment and this article? [[Nobody.]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Article 24 and the amendment of the LDS Group and SDS, NSI and SLS. Does anyone want to discuss these two amendments? Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u290	Thank you very much. The LDS Amendment to Article 24 means the desire of the applicants to try to implement the contingency scenario and all that we discussed earlier in Article 4 they want to bring back in through the side door. From this point of view, this amendment is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 24 and move on to Article 25 and put the LDS Group's amendment to the debate. Who wants a word? Nobody. Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and the last article, paragraph 26, and once again the amendment of the LDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u292	Thank you very much. This is the same as I said before in Article 24, and this is essentially this third reserve scenario. This is even beyond the side door to bring back what we have already said in Article 4, so this proposed amendment is also unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u293	Thank you very much. I also conclude the debate on Article 26 and the amendment mentioned above. As has been said many times, we will be deciding on the amendments in accordance with the time frame of the sitting today in the framework of the vote, which will be in half an hour at 6.20 p.m., I repeat at 6.20 p.m. With this, I interrupt this point of the day, and I interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 6:20 or 20 minutes after 6:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u294	Thank you for responding precisely to the beginning of the suspended session. There is still a vote on the proposals for decisions ahead of us. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. Before we go to the vote, there's a standard warning. Please check the functioning of the voting device, which means the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card, which means that the vote can be carried out. We will first vote in accordance with the proposal of Mr Ljubo Germič on the next proposal for a decision. I'm reading. The National Assembly held a debate at its next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question by Mr Ljub Germić on privatisation in the field of health. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr Germič, first on behalf of the Group of Members, then, if anyone else would like to do it on their own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u295	Thank you so much for saying that. So, in the context of the presentation of the Group's position, I would like to reiterate that the debate on this issue would allow for averting all dilemmas and clarifying whether privatisation models, such as the case of Dr. Bitenca, are known in Europe, as experts say this is not the case. Because the concessions so far have been awarded by leaving the public service, equipping their own office and then returning to the public health network. Dr. Bitenc took away part of the program of concession of the clinical centre, which thus gave up its part of the programme, which means that Dr. Bitenc took over the programme which is linked to the hospital, and is linked to the facility connected to the team. And I'm sure the questions, what does that mean next, or what happens if a surgeon goes after this pattern, what will the answers be to the staff that will remain, what will the criteria be for this? And I am sure that in the debate we could get answers that the award of the concession to Dr Bitencu is thoughtful, consistent, based on the strategic long-term concept of the introduction of concessions and privacy into health care. At the same time, there could be answers, in-depth answers to whether such a concession does not mean breaking up the current network of health services and whether solutions do not go to the patient's detriment, because we do not have an answer to the question of how the patient is treated in case of medical complications, who will finance these complications, what will be the course of action if financial problems arise in the exercise of rights or payments for medicines, blood and other medicines. Secondly, we could have a clear answer to what the Prime Minister says to shorten the waiting lines. We have no argument for this, no indicators, and we would certainly get arguments and indicators in the debate, an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u296	Please, listen to me!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u297	The support for the debate would certainly provide an answer to the question whether it was really a matter of damaging taxpayers or how conflicts of interest occurred. Finally, the debate on this issue would also allow the Ministry of Health to present its concept of handling such initiatives, on the efficiency of the ministry's conduct, which, on one day, obtained the consent or opinion of the Medical Chamber, also issued a concession. Because we are confident that such behaviour will be traced to the Ministry of Health in the future. So, I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to support my proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u298	Thank you very much. The vote would also like to explain Mr Pece on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u299	Your Honors are here! We also agree in the Slovenian National Party with the content of the issue addressed to the government by our fellow Member, Germić. However, we would like to point out that the issue can have broader dimensions, so we would like to get answers from the government as a qualified interlocutor in this broad debate, above all, to the broader dimension. According to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, both at the local level and at the national level, i.e. the national constituency, we are convinced that concessional activities, both from health homes and primary health activities, are in a chaotic or irregular state. More broadly, only the issue of concessions has been raised several times by individual Members, including members of the Slovenian National Party, because we know that under the roof of Slovenian legislation we are still waiting for the so-called roof concession law. We know that concession fees should represent one of the so-called basic budgetary resources. And we are convinced that, during this debate, at least this time, the governments - the previous governments - could unfortunately not show it - could show the importance of the so-called concession law. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the discussion proposed by counterpart Germič, both in the field of health care and in the field of wider concession activities, would help not only to regulate the situation of a particular segment within the population, but also to implement the so-called public financial position. We must be aware that concession revenue is one of the constant sources of revenue from municipal budgets as well as the state budget, i.e. the basis of public finances. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we appeal to all those who are tanning or seeking balanced budgetary revenues, looking through the aspect of public finances, to support the idea of an enlarged debate and thereby to support in some way the pressure on the government to accede to the Act on concession activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u300	Thank you very much. The vote also wishes to explain Mr Kontic, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr Vice-President, on behalf of the Group of Members. Members and Members of the Social Democrats, too, will certainly support the proposal proposed by Mr Ljubo Germič. It is not the first time that we have discussed the problems of granting concessions in this National Assembly. We also addressed an oral question to the Prime Minister in connection with the award of concessions in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats before summer holidays, and he replied that the area in question was not well regulated, that it needed to be changed and that we would do so with agreement. We now note that without this agreement, without amending the legislation, concessions are granted on a secondary level and we are convinced that this cannot and must not become a concession after the decision of the Minister. It can be self-involved. The award of concessions is also in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u302	Can I have some more patience, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u303	a pressing issue, even because concessions are awarded in a way that requires a concession and then acquires it without having done any analysis before, detailed analyses showing us the results of the award of these concessions or the introduction of private health care. [[...]] We certainly want this analysis before we can decide on the basis of this to continue granting concessions. This secondary-level award of concessions, which is now taking place by the Ministry of Health or the Minister of Health, is certainly worrying. He is also reminded of the profession and individuals involved. That is why the letter was addressed to Minister Brucan. I'm afraid I haven't received that answer yet. In the parliamentary group, we are convinced that addressing this issue at a meeting of the National Assembly would also be an opportunity to speak concretely about the granting of healthcare concessions and to also allow the Minister of Health, Dr Bručan, who did not have the opportunity yesterday to answer this question, to include himself with his colleagues in this debate and to tell the plan or assumptions he has for the future. Finally, several times it has been mentioned that previous governments have awarded concessions. The former, in which we were also Social Democrats, came to this very much with a reserve or limited option, and we are now witnessing the accelerated award of concessions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Anyone else wants it on behalf of the parliamentary group, and then we move on to an individual explanation? If not, then Mr Zagorac, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! Thank you for your word. As has already been said, I myself, like the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, will support the proposal for an extended debate on the award of healthcare concessions proposed by Ambassador Ljubo Germić. Concessions in themselves are a very pressing matter. In particular, they are scalding in the field of health care. I think and I am sure that because we know that, to a certain extent, at least in our country, they are causing some kind of dispersion of people. But someone can afford to go to the concessionaire's doctor, another, I'll say, the poorer layer, which is increasingly, unfortunately, in this country, can't afford it. In view of this and in view of the manner in which the concession was granted, it has not been 24 hours since the request for the award of the concession, I hope that there is no political impact. The political influence in the field of health does not wish anyone in this country as much as I hope not in this national assembly. And just so that Minister of Health, Mr Bručan, can explain and explain to us that it was not actually a politically motivated concession award, I would like to have a broader debate and therefore I hope that the members of the ruling coalition will also support the proposed proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u306	Thank you very much. There's someone else I'd like to explain my voice to. Master Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u307	The health register is undoubtedly one of the points that too often come to the debate in the National Assembly and therefore the proposal by Mr Germić should be supported. With this in mind, at the end of 2005, when it is already very well known how the first year of the health treasury new government will end, we could also make an appropriate comparison between 2004 and 2005 and, above all, discuss what is likely to be a key question: Will Slovenians and Slovenes still be able to have adequate health care during the term of this government, or will we be offered a Slovak model? The Slovak model in health care is very simple. Although there is primary health care, there are no doctors in it. There is health care at the level of the so-called secondary and terciar, but it is not possible to carry out operations at the burden of health insurance. That is why one of the major causes of poverty in Slovakia, and this is the model offered by the current ruling coalition, in that people devote their savings to health protection. Republic of Slovenia succeeds [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u308	I'm asking you to listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u309	maintain an adequate level of health care in 15 years and use eight percent of gross domestic product rationally. [[...]] This would show the 2004 figures. Unfortunately, this is no longer the case for 2005 and we will end up without basic constitutional rights, the right to solidarity in health. I therefore propose that you support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich in his own name? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u311	Thank you very much. I would like to explain in my own name another argument why support for this debate. When we discussed the plans for 2006, 2007 in the budget debate on the Health Committee, we also discussed the decline in funds in the health treasury and the problem of the national health programme. On the one hand, the reduction of resources, on the other hand without a national programme, raises a great deal of questions about the strategy for awarding concessions. Given that Minister Bručan is predicting a solution in private, these questions raise the following questions: How to ensure efficiency, quality and how to reduce waiting types through this? Of course, it was said that the award of concessions would allow the reduction of waiting types. I would, of course, point out here that the effect of increasing funds in the health register, it is a change in the tax procedure law, it is a single effect, it is an inflow of five billion, it is an additional programme. And it seems to me that the debate on this issue would also answer what will be the quality assurance strategy, the effectiveness of health care, and also give new perspectives here, answers to these questions. Therefore, I think it makes sense that, even through this issue, we support this debate and get answers, because the national health programme is not in the field of health and therefore these issues need to be dealt with in a partial manner in order not to lead to a decline in quality in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u313	Thank you. I would ask respectable colleagues and colleagues from the coalition groups to consider the proposal. It has also been seen in the consideration of the budget on the Committee on Finance that, in fact, some things in the field of health can be well thought out and targeted but too quickly. Let us therefore consider and support this proposal to make a debate, to see, before us is also the so-called "Public Private Partnership", whose legislation is coming and where we must all be prepared. There are many facts ahead of us that change too quickly for ordinary people the policy of treatment at the primary and secondary levels, so that we do not say anything else. I therefore suggest that there is nothing wrong with the fact that, in the context of the proposal that was given, the debate is actually being held and that, once and for all, we clarify how these things will develop in the field of the Ministry of Health and in the field of health, which is valid for 2 million Slovenians. Let us support this proposal, colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, this time in your name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u315	Your Honor! Allow me to continue the thought of where colleague Germich ended. According to my personal assessment, it is not only a matter of raising the quality of health services in order to increase the quality of health services if concessional activities were once cleared mainly in primary health care. According to our or my assessment, it is mainly about maintaining the quality of health services in the primary sector. I am afraid that the recent development in primary health care has caused the decline of services or the quality of services in primary health care. According to our assessment, this kind of debate could help to prevent the decline of services, the quality of services in primary health care, by draining individual health activities from the scope of this sector on the basis of a concession to the private sphere and not staying in so-called health homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u316	Thank you very much. I don't see any more hands, which means we can go to the vote. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present; 30 votes in favour, 46 in favour of the motion for a decision. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] The assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Miran Potrč, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janš, to the question of Mr Miran Porč, on the State's obligations under the law on denationalisation." Does anyone want to explain their vote first on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u317	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr Janša, Prime Minister, said and acknowledged that all the obligations of the State and, above all, the way they were met, which are related to the law on denationalisation in the government, were not fully clarified, so that there were possibilities, as I had predicted in the Member State's question, that a possible deficit, which is indisputably present in Slovenia's compensation society, could be covered in such a way as to increase the funds to cover, or through the obligations that the budget would have, and thus directly tax collectors and taxpayers. I think that this is such a serious issue, because the order of commitments has also been recognised by the Prime Minister, which is at least 150 billion Slovenian tolars, which is about 8% of the one-year budget and which, according to the government's promises, is more than a savings account with a possible uniform tax rate. These are the issues that require the most serious debate in the National Assembly. It would be time to face this issue, and it would be time for the government to tell us how it will seek solutions. Not to change the obligations it has, but to cover these obligations, which are unique legislation in the field of denationalisation as we have adopted in Slovenia, as opposed to in all other transition countries, even against the advice of our own advisers, how property in our country should be handled. I think it is in the interest of all of us, but above all, that this is our obligation to meet the denationalisation obligations and to prevent the serious consequences that these obligations could have for taxpayers. I therefore expect that we will support the demand for this debate and try to identify the many other uncertainties that exist in this area and find for all acceptable solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u319	Please, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u320	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u321	Your Honors are here! Allow me to proceed. I find it hard to believe that we will find solutions acceptable to everyone in this National Assembly. However, I agree with the speaker before me, who has made it clear enough that in the past mistakes have been made in the field of denationalisation procedures, in particular as regards Slovenian legislation concerning this matter. Within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we will support the idea of getting a response to the Government's expectations regarding the expected financial commitments. We also assess that it would make sense in this debate to touch on all those denationalisation processes that have recently been particularly active, especially under the so-called political tactic. We believe, however, that during the primary mandatory phase, we should touch on all the resources that are on the one hand the expenditure of the budget, i.e. those resources that will cover such matters as the existing government is concerned with.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u322	Thank you. Anyone else? Master Squeakle, then Mr Zagorac. On behalf of the parliamentary group or your own?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u323	On behalf of the Group of Members. The functioning of the Slovenian Compensation Society, in particular the implementation of the law on denationalisation, is a transitional issue on the one hand, and the question of the transformation of ownership in Slovenia in this decade is becoming increasingly public finance and, in particular, a fiscal issue. I think it is absolutely necessary to support a fellow Member's decision to hold a debate on this, because, of course, Mr President of the Government himself here, who, by the way, is the president of the Slovenian Compensation Society Assembly, spoke as if he were not the President of the Slovenian Compensation Society. The Slovenian compensation company, a shareholder company, has an important part of the assets of Slovenian taxpayers in management. This purpose was defined by the law adopted in this National Assembly. It is impossible for the National Assembly to obtain relevant information on this matter either from this Assembly of appointed members of the Management Board or from the Management Board of appointed leaders in that company. These representatives make greater use of the National Assembly for the implementation of their own press conferences. Therefore, of course, the inadequate response of the Prime Minister, who does not understand that he has taken over this important part of Slovenian property, is absolutely necessary. We all know that since 2003, when we made reporting obligations to the European Union, the SOD, which is unfortunately bottomless, has been part of Slovenian public finances. Its deficit has already affected the surplus deficit and will soon have an impact on us today, either as Minister of Finance or as President of the State. The fact that the deficit in the SOD and the progressive deficit in the KAD may significantly reduce or significantly increase the public financial debt or the public financial deficit and this will significantly reduce spending opportunities for other purposes in the state budget is what the new government would not have known. The most interesting thing, of course, is that the leading people at the SOD act like they don't have a lack of assets. Perhaps so, for this week the government has decided that the property that Vrhnnik has in the industry will be transferred to the SOD. Unfortunately, this is so mainly because they want to do something less transparent than the law requires in public finances. Therefore, there are more than enough reasons to discuss denationalisation and, in particular, the functioning of the Slovenian compensation company, so I will support this proposal on behalf of the parliamentary group and also on my own behalf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u325	Thank you for your word. I myself, like the Slovenian National Party's Group, will support the Social Democrats' proposal for several reasons. Denationalisation has been a pressing problem for several years in the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, the problem of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We know that today state forests in forest management are a good part of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. When they begin to return to you, given that the intention of the current government to restore to the Roman Catholic Church everything in nature will be a certain burden for the state budget or a deficit in the form of taxes. If I look back at the area from which I come, it is said, from Maribor, I can say that the Roman Catholic Church has so far been returned in nature in Maribor almost everything it demanded. If I mention only the secondary agricultural school and the Faculty of Agriculture in Maribor, it is the school institutions with which we have - and I hope you all believe that - a very big problem to place them for their further development. The same applies to Betnav Castle and to some buildings in the center of Maribor, among which I must certainly mention the provincial archive in the city that the Roman Catholic Church was to receive back. According to such a principle or principle that the current government operates, it is said that everything in nature needs to be restored, we can be confident or can speculate on this even on the basis that the Roman Catholic Church will become a kind of second branch of the economy in our country. Let us therefore give the Minister and the Prime Minister the opportunity to talk more about this and convince us of something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u326	Thank you very much. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. The vote was 32 to 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. We continue with the third point, namely the proposal by the MEP mag. Milan Cvikla on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to the question of mags. Milana Squill's debt in the public sector. Does anyone want to explain the voice, first on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u327	I think that yesterday's debate has shown that the Minister of Finance has not answered the question properly, even though he has had more than a month's time for this question. The Minister received this question from the Parliament in September for the previous meeting of the National Assembly. In particular, the Minister of Finance did not answer the question of how, in the first year of his mandate, he allowed the public sector, without the Slovenian compensation company, to be in debt for at least 600 billion. 600 billion is 10% of gross domestic product. Mr Kranjc, Mr Gaspari, Mr Rope and Mr Maramor have succeeded in keeping the share of the debt in the gross domestic product below 30% since Slovenia is independent. The Minister for Finance, Mr Bajuk, has managed to increase public debt pressure by at least 10 percentage points in one year of his mandate. If this continues, we will, by the fact that Mr Bajuk, Minister of Finance, is also the president of one of the coalition's parties and also someone who is very concerned about local elections, be the one who will not be able to stop the appetites of his fellow ministers. Even more, he invents ways and methods to entrust Slovenia, past the state budget, through the National Assembly, through Slovenian public finances. This is confirmed by the Darsa programme, which will come to the National Assembly, for an additional billion euros in guarantees in a few weeks. You have made this possible on the basis of a proposal made by the Minister for Local Self-Government, but without any restrictions placed by the Minister of Finance at the local self-government. This will have to be closed by the Minister of Finance when the proposal is completed when the Members of the ruling coalition disagreed with the change in the coordination of social transfers. We have a finance minister who is extremely innovative and, above all, in seeking public debt, is looking for a way to close the major appetites of ministers. Apparently, he doesn't even have support in his own client, let alone in the president of the party. Therefore, it would be good for the Minister of Finance here to support, support, in his efforts. To do so, however, it is appropriate to open the debate first, to open a discussion on how and why this has happened in the last year. I therefore propose that you support my initiative to discuss the issue of Slovenia's indebtedness before we discuss the 2006 and 2007 state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Not to defend the Minister of Finance, but to do so must be answered in the way that Comrade Squeakl began. Of course, we won't support it. However, I doubt that Mr Squeak will be satisfied at any time with the answer. As far as supporting Mr. Bajuk is concerned, he is a party of his own. You can be without concern. He has a lot of support. You read a little too much Finance and other media. As far as debt is concerned. Yesterday, Mr Cvikl first found that the government would shortly arrive at the state assembly after the Dars guarantee of 1 billion. He then calculated that this was 600 billion Slovenian tolars and now claims here that Mr Bayuk was able to repay this country for 600 billion in the first year of his term. It's mathematics right over the thumb, I'd say, opposing mathematics after the Squeakpotence. I'd say you're probably counting on that famous Cardell guy who said "lie lies, something's about to happen." I think the minister warned you yesterday that this country is ahead of too serious a question, that you're playing with these numbers in your head and you're predicting something that's going to happen. It is true, however, that the government has allocated much more resources for road infrastructure under the budget, it is said that those state roads that you have neglected in all your mandates and are in need of investment, so that we will contribute in this way to fewer fatalities each year on these roads. We built highways while we left the roads to be regulated as they were going to be. It is high time to start investing in all road infrastructure and especially rail infrastructure. Comrade Squeakle, you will not come too far with a lie, and with these calculations you will not, of course you will have to argue, prove. Some assumptions here to tell and, on the basis of these assumptions, to demand a public hearing and thus, through the Finance Minister, with these low blows to come to the National Assembly, which the ruling coalition will not allow at this time. We'll all probably vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u330	Thank you very much. I didn't want to interrupt you out of regularity, but once again, let me say that the explanation of vote is for the reasons why you will vote. Behesi Group This applies to everyone, I am not just talking to you, Mr Sok. [[...]] This applies to the entire congregation. The explanation of vote is intended to explain the voice, not the controversy and not the mutual accusation and innuendo and so on. I ask very nicely that all of this together, I repeat, is not about anyone in particular, I am telling everyone. Thanks for understanding. Mr Pece has the floor, an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u331	On behalf of the Group of Members. It is also interesting how the care of the so-called public debt always seems to be solely the concern of the so-called opposition. Years ago, in the past year, it was just other people who advocated public finances, and above all concern for the so-called public debt. Today, the same ideas come from the mouth of other people. And it is also interesting how the authorship of these ideas grows from one option to another option and how the need for such a debate grows from one mouth to another. Let me tell you, I think it was three years ago when we met this kind of idea to talk about public debt. And then it was a public debt, if I remember correctly, 729 thousand per person, for every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the one who is under 18 years old, and of course the one who is over 18 years old. The then opposition, which was also composed in addition to the Slovenian National Party, and I repeat, the whole of today's government, has been absolutely defending the theory of how to meet the so-called debate over the growing public debt and, above all, the inflation of the issue of bonds. According to my memory, during that period, I believe that within a few months it was under the leadership of Mr Marble's bond from RS23 to RS41. But that was suddenly problem number one, and I agree that at the time it was actually number one. That is why I cannot understand today those people who, a year and a few months ago, advocated the need to maintain the value of public debt or feared when this public debt would be negatively repaid within the framework of public finances. That is why I find this town totally unacceptable and, forgive me, this time I will be in violation of the Rules of Procedure, the transfer of New Slovenia, which, as I said before, has highlighted so many times the need to debate public finances, the need to debate debt. And today we're getting this kind of swindling. According to my assessment, I was in the opposition's previous term, today in the opposition, the task of all of us should be to talk about public debt, about the rise in public debt and, in my opinion, almost, forgive the expression, the stupid debt we are witnessing or the planning of the debt we are witnessing today. This debate should be held by the National Assembly, if not because of existing debt, but mainly because of public finances in the years ahead. And public finances are not government finances. Public finances are the finances of all Slovenes and Slovenes, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] So it's worth talking about and jumping in to help Mr. Bayuk, who is obviously incapable of doing it himself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u332	Mr. Peche [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u333	to carry out this project. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u334	Thank you. And Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u335	Thank you so much for your word and good evening! On behalf of the parliamentary group, I have the task of saying that we will support this proposal mainly because one of the conditions for entry into the euro area is not to exceed the maximum debt set by the Maastricht Agreement. That's one of the reasons. However, another reason is that the problem of excessive indebtedness, which is also untransparent because the entire public debt also includes the debt of the municipalities, which will now be accelerated, is certainly accelerated to hire loans, so that the Ministry of Finance should also employ additional powers to have a comprehensive review of the scope of the debt, not only of the government itself, but also of all other and public institutions that appear as potential lenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u337	In your own name, allow me to explain why I will vote in favour of this proposal. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u338	In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u339	Because it's 600 billion. It's 600 billion because we have a 102 billion deficit this year. When we add 240 billion Dars to this, we're at 342 billion. Adding 30 billion uncovered debts to the municipalities that will be covered under the law is 30 billion and we are at 372 billion. We add a drop of 59 billion from the EU to 432 and include only half of the possible indebtedness of the municipalities on the basis of the laws adopted, and we are at 592 billion. Add another 5 billion "brushing" in health care and 5 billion so-called social transfers dropout, and you are at 602 billion, Mr. Sok. That's a debt to Bajuk's potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u340	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Sok. I guess we're in the middle of a debate, but that's the way it is. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u341	I wish I could use you for two more minutes on my own. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u342	Like everyone else, you have a chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u343	It is impossible to talk about this information in this way and with such ease. The fact is, if you'll excuse me, what we've accepted so far is not what you're predicting. On the basis of some assumptions, we cannot hold a debate. We will be able to hold a debate when certain facts are known, not based on certain assumptions. Therefore, once again, I will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u344	Thank you, Mr. Sok. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport of Mags. Janez Bozič on the question of Mr. Friend's luck in connection with the construction of the second railway track Divac-Koper. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 2nd item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a double price labelling law in Tolars and Euros. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First, we vote on the amendment of the DeSUS Group and the amendment of the same content of the LDS Group to Article 1. In doing so, I would remind you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Articles 6 and 13. If not adopted, the amendment to Articles 6 and 13 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. This has made the amendments irrelevant to Articles 6 and 13 of the Law. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Friday, 28 October 2005, after the last item of the agenda for this meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to agenda three. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Hostages on Friday, 28 October 2005, following the end of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. We're moving to a broken 4th item in the agenda. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment and Work of Foreigners on Friday, 28 October 2005, following the conclusion of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. We're moving on to the 5th item of the agenda. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Precious Metal Products on Friday, 28 October 2005, following the conclusion of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. I'm closing or breaking point five. We are moving on to the 6th item of the agenda, which is to continue with the 6th item, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on religious freedom of religious communities. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on religious freedom and religious communities is not suitable for further consideration. Mr. Skolč, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u345	The Honourable President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, will vote against this decision on his own. The parliamentary group will also vote against it because this law, with possible additions, nevertheless allows us to only clarify the relationship between religion and politics by calling it domestically in a very modern and decent way. Modern and decent in taking into account what is enshrined in the Constitution and what is practice, the decision of our Constitutional Court. One of the key points to be pointed out is that this law only consistently separates the State and the religious community. You can't read it wrong if you're defending some layman's country. That's just not true. It's something else. This divorce is about establishing the autonomy of religion, religious organisations and beliefs on the one hand and, on the other hand, the non-interference of the State or the secular way in which the state and state bodies operate. That's an essential difference. In this regard, it is also not possible to mix atheistic beliefs with the requirement to deal with this important problem. If we want to consistently enforce the separation of faith and religious communities, and thus to enable another important element, the equality of religious belief is true, then it is appropriate to build solutions to this law. On these divorces, there have been many countries that we like to refer to very much, and there are these solutions, I'll say, also that country that we have in practice under the flag of the coalition in some way, these are the United States of America. Let me remind you in the end of what the Constitutional Court says in various judgments. That one of the essential components of the principle of separation between a State and a religious community in countries characterised by its consistent implementation is that the State does not financially or otherwise support religious activities and allows the financing of other programmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u346	Mr. Skolč [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u347	Fifteen will make me feel better. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u348	Thank you, Mr. Skull. Mr Potch, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will vote against the proposal for a decision by the mother labour body so that the proposal for a law on religious communities is not adopted. We are convinced that we have advanced provisions in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on this issue, which underline the separation of religious communities and countries that stress freedom of religion, and which underline the equality of these religious communities. After 30 years of legal regulation, it would be right for us to adopt a new law on religious communities in Slovenia, and we can also fully agree on religious freedom. However, we think it is extremely bad that this law is adopted without the widest possible debate in which citizens and citizens can participate, all religious communities in which the professional and interested public are involved, but in fact we allow ourselves, on the basis of a prepared proposal that opens up all the necessary issues that we need to settle in law, to allow ourselves, on the basis of the Government's opinion alone, to in fact only the opinions of one authority and the debates of religious communities, to reject the law only in order to get the basis for us to accept the one that the government is preparing and is far from the principles adopted in the Constitution. We are therefore prepared to open a debate, but not in a way that decides on such an important issue, not only in the National Assembly, but only under the influence of the majority in the current government and even less only under the influence of religious communities, mostly one who wants and already has a dominant position in our country. This will open up, not solve, problems regarding the situation of religious communities. This will not benefit believers or believers, I say, even less believers, because they will be dissatisfied with the situation of their religious communities, who will also wish to impose on them questions that are not in accordance with religious freedom and modern regulation in the world. We therefore propose to reconsider the proposed decision. We in the Social Democrats Group will not vote against this law being rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u350	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Kokalj has the floor. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u351	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian People's Party. We will support the proposal for a decision of the parental committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u352	Please, only Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u353	We have already mentioned the main reasons for the debate or the presentation of positions. In particular, the law does not impose established practices, a positive interpretation of the separation of religious communities and the State and the concept of religious freedom, as laid down in the law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters on legal issues and the purchase of other laws already in force in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, it gradually reduces the rights already acquired. The law itself was prepared by the traditional churches and religious communities, the largest ones that are an important part of Slovenian identity and which have also contributed very significantly to the formation of their own country, and we believe that the reason is enough that this law is not mature enough for our parliamentary group to support it. All elements of any technical added value, if they are technically well-prepared, are ready to take seriously in improving the government proposal already in preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u354	Thank you, Mr. Bones. Mr. Gulic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u355	The well-respected choir! Dear Mr. President! Colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, vote against the proposal for a declaration that this law is inappropriate for further consideration. The law is still quite appropriate for further consideration, since it contains everything that has not been done for 30 years. You know well that the current law is 30 years old and incompatible with everything we consider to be a legal state. This has, of course, caused many complications, including misunderstandings between religious communities and the state. This one-boiled woman, who had cooled and silvered and added, was, in fact, one of the most gruesome things that had happened at that time. That is why there has been a great deal of discontent on all sides. The proposal, which I have made, regulates these matters, is fully in line with the Constitution and in line with the European guidelines. Indeed, the government’s criticism was such that it spoke of some misunderstanding and misunderstanding of the Constitution. That's not the term. It is still true that things are constitutional or unconstitutional. The costs for the country will also be significantly lower if this law is adopted. We're talking about lost rights and previously acquired rights. This should also be asked when workers lose their rights, employees, when they are actually lost by all citizens. To those who are still in doubt or are thinking about how to vote, let me say, not only read Saint Peter, but also read something from the Holy Paul. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u356	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mrs. Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the parliamentary group? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u357	Thank you very much. In my opening statement, I have already said that this is a decision that is negative only for a political decision that the government will be able to bring its bill into Parliament as soon as possible. I have received confirmation from one of the government's parties, who actually says that he actually has this law, which we will obviously get out of the procedure today, a false omen in the current Slovenia. Last but not least, I have recently confirmed, also from the representative of the government party, that this is actually the whole issue today just to get the law out of the procedure as soon as possible and to decide as soon as possible on a government proposal for a law. Allow me a few more substantive facts which I have already put forward in my presentation of the views of the Group of Members. The Law on the Legal Situation of Religious Communities, which is in force and governs religious freedom and the legal position of religious communities, is outdated and is not in accordance with democratic regulation and is even unconstitutional in some places. The law that is before us today actually corrects this unconstitutionality in a number of steps. Last but not least, the law follows the constitutional principle, which is to ensure the separation of the State and the religious communities. And allow me to raise another important issue, an important issue also for this government, which speaks out loud about how much it will "screw up" in quotations, of course in the budgets, given that there is an up-to-date time when we are adopting state budgets for the next two years in the National Assembly. The government's proposal for a law that will come into the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible mentions the long-term increase in budget expenditure for the best case, 536 million Slovenian tolars. While the law we are considering today in the budget would even reduce the country's expenditure by about 349 million tolars. We do have a social state, a country that has not found enough hearing in the draft budgets to provide 3 million Slovenian tolls for programmes aimed at protecting children in the event of sexual abuse. Certainly this decision, which has proved to be a pure political decision, will not be supported in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u358	Thank you, Mrs. Squire Tavsh. Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u359	Thank you very much. I am an advocate of the laity state in a broader sense, and this is a great advocate because the laity of the state or its secularity is in fact one of the greatest civilisational gains of mankind. This means that the state cares for all citizens, simplified, simplifications are also necessary here due to lack of time. This law ran into a particular resistance of the Roman Catholic Church. The issues are not explained until the end of the problem, which is extremely, extremely sensitive. So it is obvious that one of the strongest and widest reflections is needed in this society on such a problem. The separation between religious communities and the country is a constitutional and also a different principle that we must all adhere to if we are to a modern country. And that means two. It means that it is not the influence of the religious community or, above all, of the Roman Catholic Church in this case, as regards national responsibilities and its basic function. But the other way around. It means that religious communities must exercise their own mission freely. And at these points, of course with financial implications, these discussions are taking place. Leading them the way you would say, which is essentially controversial, but I don't think it makes sense to have a calm and normal society. Therefore, I will support the conclusion in the hope that the debate will be held [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] carried out, as necessary in such sensitive cases. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u360	Thank you, Mr. Battelli. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u361	Thank you for your word. In any case, the area of freedom of religion is an area which has a basis directly in the Constitution, as well as in the basic fundamental democratic standards of European regulation. And this is certainly an area that the state must also properly regulate with its legislation. Today, I am hearing about what should be constitutional or not, in a way that actually casts doubt on me. Look, a little while ago, those who were once not disturbed when the former Prime Minister in the shadow of the United States received the denationalized property, then they didn't shout anything, they wanted to be a cultural struggle when another entity came to the fore. Where is the constitution here, which also commands equality before marriage? Those who were once, one and the same, of course, in the government were then able to make such sober judgements that they even made an appropriate agreement, which was adopted by all sides. Also on the side of the Slovenian Church. When they came to the opposition, they were only able to write a law that was not only rejected by her, but we could read in the newspapers that the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Protestants and some other communities, had spoken negatively about it. What's the only message I can get out of this? That this opposition does not want it to be taken seriously because it is applying double standards. And that's why I'm going to do her a favor, and I'm going to vote for it to work out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u362	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u363	Thank you for your word. Today we are essentially deciding on the decision of the parent working body, which is unfortunately negative and without any substantive explanation. We are therefore making only a political decision. Political decision on whether to make today, so-called, in the slogans, "The Gulic Religious Law," or to adopt in a month, I will say, again, in the slogans, "The Storm's Religious Law". When someone tells you that we are referring to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I should like to quote to you Article 7 of the Constitution, which says that the State and the religious communities are separate and the religious communities are equal. When it comes to indications that certain religious communities do not support the bill proposed by colleague Gulič. Let me tell you that a number of religious communities or even more religious communities, as well as the profession, do not support the bill proposed by Minister Šturm. Rather than being a political decision, the government could not cut into all social spheres of religious content. Today you have clearly proved that you do not know or want to talk about denationalisation, although it has been interesting to hear from ministers, as well as from the Prime Minister, what are the worth of ring forests and other properties that this government has been bringing back to the Roman Catholic Church? It is inadmissible for the government to write in its law that the State is the payer of all social transfers or compulsory pension and disability insurance and compulsory health insurance for religious servants. This is about 900 million taxpayers' money, which will be charged to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia by the non-admission of this law. In the Slovenian National Party, as already said by colleague Žgainer, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u364	Thank you. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u365	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that the question of faith and religious freedom is too serious to be addressed by such a prepared law. If you were the ideal 18th article in which you wrote that 25 capable individuals can establish their faith, it is essentially the degradation of religious communities, not just Roman Catholics. [[...]] [[background advertising]] If you'll excuse me. Not only the Roman Catholics against whom this law is directed, and you also recognize it, but, in fact, against all major religious communities. I do not think that such a law can, of course, be supported at this time and that this area will be resolved by a government proposal already prepared. I will therefore vote against this proposal today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u366	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u367	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not support the decision of my mother's working body. The reason for that is quite something. At a time when Europe is also learning about other religions when it faces religious terrorism, when it is looking for answers to complex questions about the relationship between private belief, between agnosticism, atheism and other aspects, and the right of every individual to believe what he believes, we are facing a complete absence of dialogue in this national assembly. The bill we are deciding today has been demonized in the public media before some, including those who are swinging today in this national assembly, have read it before or against it. There was no public debate on this law. And to speak about the fact that a public debate on such an important issue can replace the treatment of the parent working body, which is open to the public, is the underestimation of those who have demanded public debate on the various aspects of regulation, once again I stress the important social issue. I cannot attach to those who replace the world of private belief, the world of individual conscience and religious freedom with an institution. This is supposed to be the law on religious freedom, not the law on churches, not the law on the Roman Catholic Church, which wants to have a position arranged in the way that it imagines itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u368	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u369	Look, I'm going to tell you, on my behalf, why this proposal is valid, and I'm going to somehow deny the arguments that we've heard here. It is true that this law is opposed by three religious communities in Slovenia, but over 40 are registered. We would logically conclude that the others agree. It is true that the law provides for a small number of founding members. But Mr. Sok, Jesus Christ began with the twelve apostles, thirteen founding members were. Look how far he's come. There's no telling exactly how many people were putting a manifesto on the door with Lutra. Look at the civilisational breakthrough this faith has made. I believe this is all funny to you, but it's sad that you don't actually allow serious things to be discussed. You do not allow Parliament to be able to judge those issues that need to be assessed and to believe blindly in your ministers, who are connected in one way or another with one church. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u370	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u371	Thank you very much. The fact that the law, the content of which is to deal with the question of religious communities, is opposed by all the major religious communities is sufficient reason enough to establish that such a law is inappropriate for further proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u372	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u373	Thank you very much. In my debate on behalf of the Group of Members, I have proposed to the colleagues and colleagues of the Coalition that we postpone the decision on this law today. Not expecting him to be ideal, but even less expecting him to be or be an ideal law prepared by Minister Sturm and you want to get him into the National Assembly as soon as possible. I have proposed this because I am convinced that, at this point, the issues of separation of state and religious communities, religious freedom and equality are not useful for the coalition, either, not to highlight issues which can objectively exist, but not to seek the possibility of running points and linking on such an important issue. If you continue to do so, you will do the same damage that was done years ago when it tried to mistreat individual churches in Slovenia. Don't do this because you're doing our country harm. You are not aware of this because you are full of yourself, because you are also full of cooperation and support this moment between one church and the government, because you like that this church goes into public life and supports the government when it "fits". That's all possible. However, these are not the basis for a normal relationship in which in a regulated country every believer and nonbeliever would feel equally free and equally respected. You want the church to make decisions in the country and in this national assembly, as requested by this church. Think about it. I'm sure that's not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u374	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the beginning of the debate on this item on the agenda, I was convinced that we were discussing the law on religious freedom and religious communities, appointed by a fellow Member, and the proposal for a decision drawn up by the mother's working body. After what the majority say, however, the debaters who support the proposal, I note that we are discussing whether it is necessary to implement the law adopted by the Assembly 14 years ago. However, if I look back on the debate before me and some others, we are also discussing the status of the Roman Catholic Church. No, we are discussing the law on religious freedom and religious communities. And for this reason, and expecting a law that is actually almost 30 years old and needs to be changed, because of the development of civilization, democracy, and I don't know what the government will prepare as soon as possible, put it into practice, I will support the decision of my mother's working body, and I hope that my colleague Sok will do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u376	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u377	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't like the proposed decision of my mother's working body in any way. I do not like the fact that, in today's explanations, I have heard in one of today's explanations of vote that we will speak later if this decision is adopted, about another law that will actually be made under the auspices of the Slovenian Church. I have heard for the first time today that there is a Slovenian church in our country. As far as I know, Slovenia does not have its own church, there are different religious communities that have different titles, but none of them have the title Slovenian Church. And, above all, I will vote against this decision, and also because it seems to me that it would be more appropriate for religious communities that are supposed to be the most powerful in Slovenia to give up their participation in the drafting of the Law on Religious Freedom and Religious Communities and that they would leave this preparation to people who are either atheists or agnostics or at least pantheists, people who are not subjective in any way or otherwise, who could have caused their own law to discriminate against individual religious communities in Slovenia. We have seen what happens if the registration of religious communities is decided by a person who is a member of one of the religious communities, we will see what happens if the law is prepared by a man who is a zealous member of one of the religious communities in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u378	Thank you. Mrs. Kuclerova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Following these explanations, I must also explain my own vote why I am going to confirm and vote in favour of the proposal of the labour force that this law is not suitable for further consideration. Obviously, those of you who support marriage still look through your own, you could call it the red glasses, and you think we still have to defend ourselves and apologize to those of us who believe. Of course, from this context, you still have the largest thorn in the fifth Roman Catholic Church. As it is said, I myself will vote in favour of the proposal by my mother's working body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, and I expect something soon from the Government's proposal, which is prepared with the compromise of the religious communities and the church. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u380	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u381	Thank you. I don't know why it's necessary to sharpen. Look, the goodness that believes in him, whatever he does, no one would mind. However, we do have Article 7 of the Constitution, which separates the religious community or religion, however you wish, from the state. Thank God, whoever wants to go anywhere at any time, but, dear fellows and colleagues, let us not sharpen on a religious basis something that does not belong together, politics and religion are separated by the constitution and let us, however, as the legislative branch of power, respect the constitution. That's all it's about, nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u382	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u383	Thank you very much. I will not support my mother's working body, and I will support my colleague Gulic's marriage. And here, maybe two things to explain. One is that if the biggest religious community does not support the law, it means that there is a big business in the back, and if the state also supports it, and as long as these two are stuck in the same horn, it is difficult to count on the separation of the church from the state. The second thing I would like to point out is that in Slovenia there are also areas where the Roman Catholic Church is not a majority. And I'm only saying this because no one will get the feeling that anything is directed at any of these churches, but I'm primarily looking for the separation of the church, the religious community anyway from the state, and all of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u384	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 27. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 8th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First, we are voting on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 2 of the Act. Mr. Kumer on behalf of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u385	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that today's debate has also demonstrated and proved that the government and the parliamentary majority, together with the proponent of this Act, the Slovenian National Party, have decided to abolish the adopted strategy adopted in this Parliament in the fight against corruption, to abolish the independent body which, together with some other state authorities designated and responsible, is expected to implement this strategy and that this majority will also adopt this law, which is first and foremost harmful to both the state and citizens, the Social Democrats MEPs will not participate in the vote. We simply do not accept the arguments of government timers, such as Minister Virant, who said that the current commission was just the one that mixed the fog. After this bill and any additions that the government has made to the procedure, the new parliamentary commission, which will be given new powers, will, of course, be able to perform tasks on a large subject. So, in the area of corruption, we are looking forward to a long polar night, where nothing will be seen and much will be done. This relationship between the proposer and the government was illustrated by the opportunity to see last week when the parliamentary anti-corruption commission was to consider and adopt a position on the 2000-2007 budget. Nowhere in any position, in any budget line, this new legislation is calculated: not in the National Assembly, not in other bodies. In view of this fact, the Social Democrats Group will not participate in this vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u386	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u387	Thank you very much. We do not predict obstruction, but I would like the distinguished colleagues who have now spoken their own to hear that it has been possible in the past that the government has been writing laws that the Social Democrats have been dealing with and the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia and the Slovenian National Party can write them itself. Another time. Long polar night is long past, respected colleagues and colleagues, and not to deceive the Slovenian public, for they live and live for a few years. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u388	Mr Barovic, just let us discuss the amendment to Article 2 or explain the vote to the amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u389	Yes, I'll explain my voice, in fact, to all the amendments and then you'll have peace in front of me, if you allow it, of course. Today we listened to everything else in the debate, only the content of the amendments. If you want, I'll list them, the fourth amendment, the fourth paragraph, the fourteenth paragraph, which are opposite to each other, and so on, at least I've read them myself, many have not. I have the right to say on behalf of the Slovenian National Party that we have drawn up a law that this National Assembly will decide on. Slovenians have a shared opinion, but once again, if 11 years were long polar night, we don't want a polar night, we just want clarity and a review. The abuse of this Parliament and all those who think differently was, above all, the most regrettably, the name of a respected colleague, I respect him, Mr Kos, his name has been misused all the time in this Chamber. We asked him to come with us, to be with us, to express his opinion, his judgment, no one invited him. No one, including those who left this hall in particular, and those colleagues who are now laughing on the right. Once you have to tell people the truth. For 11 years, there was one commission alone, the so-called National Assembly Commission. Suddenly, there was huge corruption in Slovenia, when there was nothing more, even if someone wanted to, as Mr Gulič, a respected colleague, said, I agree with him where he went to steal depending on the price. But suddenly corruption and a place in Slovenia is huge, and two commissions are needed. Please, one committee, as far as I'm concerned, let this be the National Assembly Commission, and because of me, if you make such a law, it may also be the respected Mr Kos its President. I'm in. It's not an abuse of the name Kos, it's not an abrogation, they said it was an abrogation. It's not true. It's not about shutting down the commission. It's about setting up a commission. It's about setting up a new commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u390	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. We move on to Article 2 in the vote on the amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. 65 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47 to 16. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 4. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number two shall become irrelevant to this Article. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u391	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the LDS Group, of course, I say that we will support the amendment to Article 4. This amendment, of course, brings back to this law a commission to prevent corruption as an independent body, which we believe is what we have been trying to demonstrate and prove today, is a very important anti-corruption body in Slovenia. We believe that it is completely inappropriate, unhygienic and unportunistic that part of this commission is taken over by the State Election Commission. We believe that this is particularly inappropriate when such powers are taken over by policy to control policies. We have pointed out that the problem of corruption in the public is most often linked to politics, any color, and that people will see it as simple manipulation and play and arrogance of politics in full if these tasks are carried out by the State-wide Commission of Politicians. Today, it has been repeatedly said that we are bluffing, that we do not believe what we say. Believe me, we believe that corruption cannot be prosecuted only by the police and the prosecution. When corruption comes to the police and the prosecution, it is too late to have mechanisms to prevent corruption from occurring or occurring as little as possible. I therefore stress once again that the LDS Club will clearly support this amendment and also calls on all others to reconsider, once, twice, and to support the amendment and allow the law to go on the path that we should go on without taking this fatal step back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u392	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u393	I will support the amendment of the House of Representatives, I speak for myself, because this amendment ensures what was the aim of the legislation we set at the time of entry into the European Union. In this regard, many harsh words have been said today. Above all, by government representatives, we have heard that the Kosovo Commission is a so-called corruption or anti-corruption bluff. I have to say, there's a lot of bluffing and a lot of lying on the other side. Mr Virant, who spoke today, tried to convince us that, of course, it was wrong to have an independent anti-corruption commission. He told us that he even fought it himself. During the debate, I checked with his superior, Minister Bohinc. Mr. Minister Virant lied today. Mr. Minister Virant said what he said in the newspaper in Saturday's Diary, of course, he repeated today, and that's not true. Mr Minister Virant [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u394	Mr. Squeakle, you know as well as I do that no one can answer such an obvious question. Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u395	So, of course, I will support the amendment. [[...]] I will support the amendment, because with this amendment we would ensure that at the end of this government's mandate we will have the opportunity to look at by an independent institution to increase the wealth situation. And if one of the ministers who even signed the so-called code of conduct succeeds in lying, then such a committee is more than we need. This will be your decision, your decision to abolish the body that would increase the confidence of voters and voters in politics. You obviously will not do this today, and I regret that, but I will vote for this amendment to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u396	Thank you. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u397	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's not the worst thing if there's a country where corruption is being used. The worst part is that we no longer have the political will, the willingness, and the courage to face this evil. The law and the amendment we are now talking about is that if we adopt this amendment, and this amendment is crucial for the entire law, then we have a law for which I am also willing to vote in favour with both hands. If we do not accept this, then we will seek corruption among ourselves or ourselves, which is corruption in itself. I think it's a clear expression of corruption, Latin, which means corruption or perversion. And I think that if we do not support this amendment and investigate within corrupt acts ourselves, we will do the most to undermine the reputation of the National Assembly and thus exploit the privileges we have of Members, so that we can adopt legislation that would allow for the effective suppression of this phenomenon. For this reason, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the reputation of the National Assembly, the reputation of all Members and Members with the privileges we have, I ask you very much to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u398	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u399	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members. We will not support the proposed amendment in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. The fact is that I do not have any legal powers and even less tangible evidence of my work today. He is not involved in criminal proceedings, but we are not charging the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission with legislation. It is legislation that has not given the anti-corruption commission powers. And the fact is, in the Republic of Slovenia, every citizen and every state authority under Article 145 of the Criminal Procedure Act is obliged to inform the prosecution if there is a crime where corruption is suspected. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the Commission is only a large budgetary consumer. Evidence of this has already been presented today, the number of forms received by individual Members or officials testify that we do not just speak. As far as those who speak today about the need to maintain an independent anti-corruption commission are concerned, I must say that in 31.5.2004, probably those who have already sat in this Parliament, and especially those who met the Slovenian government at the time, I hope that you will remember and that you will attach to me, in this House, the opposition of that time, including the Slovenian National Party, requested a meeting on the issue of corruption, customerism and money laundering in connection with the government and public companies. At that time, gentlemen from the present, in the so-called "oppositional parties" who defend the existence of the anti-corruption commission as a single body, you voted against talking in this House about corruption. You can look at the outcome of the vote. You won't be surprised. Last but not least, the most important words about the need to maintain the anti-corruption commission will not deliberately call it Kosovo, but I will name it as it is called, in particular the statements of the individual current leaders of the parliamentary groups who said a few years ago that the Slovenian government does not think it needs any special anti-corruption law. Such a document cannot even be drafted because corruption can occur in a wide variety of areas of life and work that cannot be covered by a single commission. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, you who oppose the abolition or whatever you call it, the current independent commission, made these statements when it was in your interest, you did not wish to have a commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u400	Mr. Zagorac, thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u401	Thank you. This is the moment to note that the Commission is not the one who is to blame for having been given such powers as to speak of it as a bluff. It was established by becoming an expensive institute, which was therefore a prestigious nature, which appeared to be in Europe, but was decided by those LDS and those current SDs at the time they adopted legislation on this commission. And these two political forces, however, have assessed that this commission needs to be humanely exaggerated on the experience of grave interference with human rights, the illegal pursuit of journalists, Mr Ranc. And they are responsible for facing this problem today. But, please, we're not going to help them keep this situation going. This amendment must now be rejected, and I will be happy to do so myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u402	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u403	Thank you. Look, I can take it all, but something can't. That someone is saying that now, suddenly, a commission will come out of space to oversee itself, gentlemen, have so much honesty and say that this has been happening in your power for 11 years. It was all right and good, but now it's not. Let's be honest and let's tell people, because of me, because of my honesty, all criminals can come, everyone, I don't know who, 15 committees, 17 supervisory committees, you can set them up, I don't care, they won't find anything in me. But don't be two-faced and not fool people and say things, but now we're all crooks and thieves, because we gave in the Slovenian National Party [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u404	Mr Barovic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u405	one proposal. [[...]] 14 paragraph [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u406	Not the controversy, the explanation of the voice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u407	Article 14, paragraph 4, tells us that we will set up a commission to oversee a commission to be led by the fourth paragraph of the amendment to Article 4 by a person of public confidence. [[...]] Please, well, the Slovenians are smart people! Everything we think is right, we're going to tear down this amendment absolutely not because it's misleading and duplicating and lying.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u408	Mr. Rob.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u409	Dear Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. I think it's right for me to explain my voice myself. In view of everything that has been said, it is worth saying and again stressing that there has been a government office in Slovenia for quite some time to prevent corruption. This government office has worked relatively effectively for several years and has prepared several documents. He has also criticised the government of the past many times, and you, honourable Members, have used these documents, these papers, and many of them have been used by the police, as well as by the prosecution. I would like to point out that one of the key arguments, the key to your comments in our discussions, is that it is a government office, that it is not good, that it is connected to the government and that it is therefore not independent enough. That is why we have decided and, of course, in this context, I would like to challenge Mr Zagorec, who has repeatedly outside the context used my statements to draw up a strategy against corruption. This anti-corruption strategy has been drafted and prepared by leading experts, not only by Mr Kos, but also by others in this area and also verified within international institutions. We have found that it would be significantly better if we had an independent commission, if we had a commission to investigate individual cases independently from the government. What is crucial, this Commission has had and is also tasked with examining individual decision-making mechanisms in different institutions in order to prevent corruption. That's why it's an institution that's valuable, where there's professionals, where there's knowledge, where they know other people's experiences. Therefore, it would be good to have such an institution in Slovenia, so I urge all of you to support our amendment and to enable a more effective fight against corruption as it has been in our time. Make it more effective now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u410	Time's up, Mr. Robb. Thank you. I can't see my hand anymore. Mr. Zagorac, or in his own name? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u411	Thank you for your word. As I have already said, in the Slovenian National Party, we will oppose the amendment proposal. The Commission, which was discussed by the Government's anti-corruption office, we all know that it was an office set up by the government. The Commission only started operating in 2004, which is 10 years after you made that statement that I was talking about. Ten years is a very long time. Ten years is a long enough time to hide and develop everything you're opposed to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u412	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 45. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 4. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u413	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. I wonder what is the message of the outcome of this vote on our amendment to Article 4 and what is the message of the bill's proponent and government, which supports the proposer with its amendments, and only adds further confusion to the law and, in our opinion, also constitutionally controversial elements. The message is clear. This government does not want to be independent of the policy of an independent and professional institution to detect, examine the phenomena and cases of corruption that would propose systemic measures to stop the rise of corruption and that would, in short, hold this authority in the field of the great evil of modern societies, that is material and political corruption. It is also indecisive that today Minister Virant has spoken about mixing fog and bluffing with the opposition's position, while supporting the proposal that an independent and independent anti-corruption commission should be abolished and that the fight against corruption should return to the National Assembly, where we have a rather negative experience with this practice. Officials and politicians are supposed to oversee themselves. Yes, yourself! This is also based on political judgement and the political preferences of the current political authorities. The message is more than clear. It is precisely because the ruling coalition and the political authorities do not want effective control over their corrupt actions that they return anti-corruption efforts to where they know that there will be no effective control, and things are expected to become even more blurred and completely divisive. And your boat will swim quietly forward into Slovenia released. The LDS does not want and will not participate in this work, so we are predicting obstruction of further decision-making on this law. Accept this shameful law, which is unmodern, non-European and also directly contrary to the UN, OECD and Council of Europe conventions. In these institutions they are already asking what is happening in Slovenia in this regard. The MPs of the coalition and that part of the opposition that isn't, it's your responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u414	Thank you, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 4. We're voting. There are 52 Members present and 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to 4b. Article 1(2) Mr. Rupar, please. Explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u415	In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u417	I'll support the amendment. I'm sorry for my loss, Mr. Kos. They even convinced me he was honest. I can tell from my practice that he was after me honestly. And it's a shame I don't see him here anymore, but it makes me know when SD and LSD leave, that with a piece of the same kind of birds fly together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u418	Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We are voting on the amendment to 4b. Article, SDS, NSI and SLS. There are 47 Members and Members present. There were 42 votes against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 10, first of all to the first amendment proposed by the LDS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 1 to 43. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 10. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 48 Members and Members present. 38 votes against 1. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving to Article 11 to vote on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 11. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 48 Members and Members present. There were 43 votes against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We turn to Article 19 to vote on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 19. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 48 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to Article 20, which is two amendments. The first is proposed by the LDS Group of Members. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 shall become irrelevant to this Article. We're voting. The vote is under way. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 1 to 43. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are therefore moving on to another amendment to Article 20 proposed by the SDS, NSI and SLS Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 51 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We turn to Article 23 to vote on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 23. We're voting. The vote is under way. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to Article 24 – first of all, we will vote on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 24. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 50 Members and Members present. No one voted against them 45. [[For no one.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are now voting on the second amendment, namely the amendment proposed by the SDS, NSI and SLS MPs to Article 24. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We move on to Article 25, to a vote on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 25. We're voting. The vote is under way. 49 Members and Members are present. No one voted against them 45. [[No one's for it.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We move on to Article 26 – we are voting on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 26. We're voting. The vote is under way. 49 Members and Members are present. No one voted against 44. [[No one's for it.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. Since the amendments to more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the amended draft law, the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at the next meeting. The draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
