ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, present, Prime Minister, Minister. We continue with the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Roberto Battelli, Stanislav Brenčič from 16:00 on, Ljubo Germič, Aleš Gulič, Kristijan Janc, Drago Koren, Villa Rezman from 14:00 on, Dr Mitja Slavinec, Aloj Sok from 13:00 on, Bojan Starman, Majda Širca, Villa Trophynik, Flower Zalokar Orazem and Mag. Franc Žnidaršič from 2 p.m. on. We're moving to 11. It's for the debate on Dr. Andrey Baiuk's response to the Magi's business question. Milan M. Squeaks in connection with the current financial perspective. In doing so, I remind you that the total time of discussion has been declared 5 hours and 55 minutes. At its 6th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the answer that Dr Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance, put to the question of mags. Milana M. Exercisel on the next financial perspective of the EU. That's why I give my word to Mr. Milan M. Cwickle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u2	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Minister for Finance, Members and Members of Parliament. Today, the National Assembly is scheduled to hold discussions on my parliamentary question to Finance Minister Bajuk on Slovenian positions in the negotiations on the new financial perspective. Three weeks ago, we proposed that we discuss this debate before the collapse of the European summit. This would be good because we would allow ourselves to have our Slovenian leaders at this European summit among European leaders, Mr Prime Minister, unfortunately, at the summit without the Minister of Finance, we may have achieved more last week. But today we're talking about this day after. The day after the European Union summit, leaders were unable to agree on two key issues. Neither how we proceed with the ratification of the European Constitution nor whether we accept the proposal for a multiannual budgetary framework as proposed by the Luxembourg Presidency. So today there will be a debate on other issues, I hope that there will be a debate on the report from the European Summit and that there will be a debate on how to proceed at home. At home, it will probably be necessary to take a different negotiating tactic. After all, this is precisely why, in deciding that the Minister of Finance did not respond adequately to my question last month, we have the support of some Members of the ruling coalition and we have a debate today. After the agreement of the leaders failed, we regretted this and, of course, announced that it was necessary to act immediately. It is probably necessary to agree immediately on a change to the Slovenian Constitution, which will allow regionalisation of the country, because only on this basis will we reach agreement on the next financial perspective in late autumn of this year or somewhere during the Austrian and Finnish Presidency. However, we regret, as far as we know, the inactive role of the Republic of Slovenia at the summit of the European Union. On Thursday, on my own visit to Brussels, I regretted that Mr. Bojan Starman was not with me when we discussed in the European Parliament on the Committee on Finance the position of the 25 countries on the proposal and the position on the next financial perspective. Why do I say and estimate that the role was relatively inactive? Since Slovenia did not, at the end of the day, decide to participate in a higher-level group of countries, which tried to help with the latest efforts to reach an agreement. I say this because in recent years, even about the same time last year, at the June 2004 summit, together with other equal-minded countries, we have helped to reach an agreement on the Constitution. So how do we proceed? We believe that today we need to discuss the government's approach to negotiations, the role of individual ministers in this. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Bayuk, didn't give me a good answer. If you remember, he read a document last month, so I'm wondering who was the actual leader of the negotiations. Prime Minister, Minister Bajuk, Secretary of State, Mr. Coprol, or anyone else? I am pleased that the Prime Minister is with us, of course, to present first-hand developments to us at the summit and, above all, the way the Republic of Slovenia operates on European matters from 3 December. We are therefore interested in whether the government has done enough to ensure that the negotiating position is good and whether it has worked within the European Union. That's the first key question. The second issue is the integrated relationship between the coalition and the opposition in the national assembly on European issues. We have a law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly on European Union matters. In our opinion, this law is not fully respected. Above all, it is necessary to come after the negotiating mandate before the negotiations are under way. If we already have the Luxembourg Presidency [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It is necessary to obtain a mandate in the National Assembly before and no later than talking to them. [[...]] I think that would be a good point for today's conversation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you for the introductory explanation. I would like to take the floor by inviting the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u4	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Members and Members! The next financial perspective we are discussing at a time when the round of negotiations that took place during the Luxembourg Presidency is over, the negotiating strategy that we have adopted for this round has passed. For the next round of negotiations, when a new proposal is adopted, a new negotiating strategy will have to be adopted. The proposal will be different and Slovenia will also be in a different position. In view of the formally drawn framework of this agenda item, we are discussing history. We will have to discuss a new strategy in Parliament when a new proposal is put forward. And this one will be different. The situation has changed. At this last European summit, as well as before, Slovenia negotiated within the framework of the mandate, which was last confirmed by its mother's working body in the National Assembly, even several bodies discussed this. We had a mandate not to agree to the poorer net position of Slovenia, but twice as good as we have by the end of 2006. And we held on to this mandate sooner and later. The fact is that the negotiations were not successful, not yet because of Slovenia; it would be funny to think that we were the ones who could influence it, let's say that Britain would be pleased with this ransom. Following this last proposal from the Luxembourg Presidency, which was in line with our negotiating strategy and negotiating mandate, Slovenia would have received slightly less than 4 billion nets from the European budget by 2013. We could have given up all these billions, and that would only be half a British rabbi for a year. These are dimensions that need to be made clear to us, especially if someone speaks that we might be affected by a different conclusion of these negotiations. The main problem that has led the negotiations in this mandate of the Luxembourg Presidency has been a major discrepancy between the formal definitions of the European Union, including the formal adoption of strategic documents such as, say, the Lisbon Strategy on the one hand, and the European budgets on the other. The European Union here is partly similar to the 'Slovenian success story' - under the terms - in recent years, when we swore on technological development and everything else, but at the same time we had in fact different priorities with the structure of the budget. It is the same in the European Union. This last proposal also still contained a larger part of the European budget for matters that will certainly not contribute to faster development, towards greater competitiveness of the members of the European Union. And there will be changes, there must be changes, no matter how much of our direct interest in this financial perspective. From this point of view, it must be recognised that the Scandinavian countries, the UK, Finland, also some of the new members, have been or have been alerted to the real problems. We have not put them up as sharply as Britain has done, but the structure of the European budget is in fact one of the key problems of the European Union at this time. And until this issue is resolved, Europe will not develop faster, it will not achieve the competitiveness of the most developed environments in the global world, we can adopt another 100 Lisbon strategies, if we do not finance them, these will be dead letters on paper. At the end of these discussions in the late night or early morning hours, it was clear on Saturday that this European Summit had no chance to adopt this strategy, some leaders simply distributed the texts they had already brought with them after the meeting. It is also true that virtually no financial perspective has been adopted, no European budget has been adopted a year and a half before the entry into force. The last for the period now in force was adopted in March of the following year with its entry into force, it is 8 months, 9 months earlier, it is now 18 months before then, so from this point of view, taking into account only the time dimension, it is no problem and no crisis. It is weak that the next balance sheet perspective has not been adopted at this summit, first for political reasons, because the European Union would only prove that, following the complications of the ratification of the European Constitutional Treaty, it works effectively to be able to act effectively in such a situation. Secondly, the early adoption of the European budget for the next period would be very good for the new members, who need more time to prepare themselves for the effective withdrawal of funds from this budget. That time will be reduced, some preparations can, of course, be made and we will. However, we do not have precise frameworks, and this will also be a problem for the government when it prepares Slovenia's budget for the next two years. This framework, which is linked to European funds, will be largely unclear and the 2006 and 2007 budget will need to be drawn up on the basis of assessments rather than on the basis of the facts already adopted. The debate on how to continue the process of ratifying the European Constitutional Treaty has also affected, if not the second time, less productive time to discuss the next financial perspective, but even if it were devoted to one week at this time, it was not possible to achieve more because of the structural differences reflected in the political position of individual countries. Europe, too, old Europe, Europe of former members of the European Union, old EU members, Europe 15 is divided into those countries, mainly Scandinavian countries, Great Britain, Finland, in part some countries that have already started or implemented economic reforms that have increased the service sector, which have reduced the dependence of the national economy on industry, and these societies are competitive in this global world when cheap industrial products come from China, South Asia, India. Other companies that did not, for example, Italy, France, to a large extent Germany, were less competitive here, some at the beginning of the reforms, some without it, some with the reduction of the lira rate, Italy, when it had its own currency, encouraged exports, affected that their exports were competitive, now that they are in the euro area, this is no longer possible, and therefore there is also nostalgia after the introduction of the national currency back, which is, of course, more or less irrelevant. Of course, this different reality of the Member States of the European Union is then also reflected when it comes to budgetary positions, this is a key document. There are huge differences between Member States, both between those who are net payers and those who are net recipients. And I believe that a lot of people in Slovenia are under the impression that there are constant statements by some professors who say that the European Union is like Yugoslavia. I assure you, when it comes to money, it's a huge difference. In Yugoslavia, it was up to those who received, and in the European Union it is up to those who pay. This is some normal world, and this is what needs to be done and will need to be adjusted. And Slovenia will adapt to this new situation. The crisis, which is politically related to the non-ratification of the European Constitutional Treaty, will last for about one year, will find some answers in that time, and some countries continue to ratify. We will continue to meet the conditions for taking over the euro. We will immediately negotiate the creation of cohesion regions or the recognition by the European Union of our cohesion regions. We're sorry to hear that. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] negotiated by the previous government, because if some who were driving to Hanoi and Vietnam were working more on this issue, perhaps the situation would have been better at that time. [[...]] Thus, we have been working hard here for a while and will have to negotiate, even though we do not meet certain conditions. One of the key conditions is that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u5	Mr. Janša, please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u6	Just one more sentence. the conclusion has been reached that cohesion regions in the Member States will not change sooner than within three years of the adoption of the last directive and this time has not yet come, and we will have to move this date through negotiations if we are to succeed. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you for your introductory reply. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. Dear Prime Minister, I do not think it is necessary for us to talk today in this place and in the Slovenian Parliament about the future financial perspective in the European Union, which is part of us as a Slovenian country. Although I would like to point out at the outset that, as one of the representatives of the other parliamentary group said in the opening that some of the members of the coalition are, it is two of our Members, supported the proposal of Mr Squeak to speak in this place in Parliament. I would also like to point out that the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as well as the two Members who supported this proposal, have assessed the response of the Minister, the Finance Minister, Mr Bayuk as appropriate. At the same time, they felt that it was not too much and that the debate in Parliament did not hurt if we also spoke here. And we are certainly in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, and we are also pleased to hear today's actual report by the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janš, on the future perspective, the European Union's financial perspective and some of the processes that have taken place in Luxembourg. It is true that Mr Bajuk, as the leader of the working group and as the finance minister, is responsible for the financial perspective together with the government. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the Luxembourg Presidency's process for further development, which has taken place and will continue to take place, should not have a significant impact on regional development in Slovenia. It is true, however, that since the collapse of the constitutional treaty at the referendum in some Member States of the European Union, the situation of Slovenia in the negotiations itself has changed significantly. Some recent developments in the European Union have certainly had a strong impact on the public financial situation in Slovenia, as well as economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that everything needs to be done to ensure that Slovenia remains a net recipient as long as possible. It is therefore necessary to adapt regional policy and adapt regional development so that we can draw, as the Slovenian country, cohesion envelopes, in particular cohesion policy, in such a way as to ensure a balanced regional and, of course, coherent development, both in Slovenia and in the European Union. Cohesion envelopes or cohesion policy must be a priority of Slovenian policy. A significant reduction, including in the draft financial perspective of Luxembourg in the European Union, should not have a significant impact on the development of regions and on the account of those regions in Slovenia that are lagging behind some other regions, but especially the central Slovenian region. Currently, Slovenia has one region, and certainly, if Slovenian policy does not approach a thorough and effective one, including restructuring in the light of recent events, in this area, it can happen that we can fall out of the range of beneficiaries of structural and cohesion funds first. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I would like to emphasise the following. Slovenia must adapt to the specific circumstances and events that have taken place in recent times and in the Luxembourg Summit itself. Surely our negotiators could no longer achieve what they achieved. It is true, however, that we call on the opposition to dialogue and tolerance - once again, to dialogue and tolerance - to take responsibility for the situation that has taken place, all of us together, and to try to find solutions that will bring about the highest standardisation and the highest democratisation in the field of the use of these funds. And this must be the responsibility of both the opposition and the coalition. If we were able to sever species when we decided on the European Union, respected fellow Members and colleagues from the opposition and the coalition, we will do so today when it comes to the welfare of the Republic of Slovenia and the future financial perspective of Slovenia in the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u9	Comrade Kangler, before you leave the pay phone, allow me! The Slovenian People's Party has 30 minutes registered and you can still use your time. Good. We continue the debate. In doing so, I would like to inform you that there seems to have been a misapplication of the timetable in the context of the parliamentary groups. So please don't look at the screen message. We all have a list of how much time has been reported by any of the Members. Kolga Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group [[a maximum of 30 minutes]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members! Good afternoon, Minister of Finance and Prime Minister! Yeah, the Prime Minister was right about the part where he said we should keep looking, not back. Only sometimes things, Mr. Prime Minister, are so connected that at this point it is very difficult to talk about what is going to happen and what is not going to happen, but it should be very difficult to separate. It is equally difficult to separate the responsibility of one authority and another. This, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, is certain to claim and prove it, because I am, to my pleasure or to my regret - five years on the Commission or the Committee on European Affairs. The Slovenian national party was the only Eurosceptic party in the past and, of course, experienced a lot of horns at the expense of its thoughts and ideas, which, with joy and pride today, proved to be completely and absolutely correct. But good. When we entered the European Union, we suddenly became the one in the Slovenian National Party who was most aware of the need to respect the rules of the club you join; you know that all of you who are members of various sports clubs and so on. Perhaps all Members and Members should also know that, in fact, we are also an integral part of a large country, whose third of the rules we must respect absolutely, the second third half and one third of the European Union allows us to act in our own way. Three years ago in the Slovenian National Party - this is very important for the future - we absolutely warned that at NUTS level this country, the Republic of Slovenia, should be divided into regions, one, two or three. The rules of the game are clear. The region must have at least 800,000 inhabitants, i.e., Slovenia is ideal for two regions, and at that time we had time to decide those three because we had free hands, but in order to have a nice or ugly view of this account, like all the other new members, we knew and were confident that as a net recipient we would receive European money so much that we would balance our activities and activities with the other members of the European Union. But then the power of the Liberal Democracy, the United List and others, of course, was deaf and, let's be honest, speculated, as the current one speculated: if it works out, we'll have one region and we'll get a lot, if it doesn't work out, we'll go three regions or two, one will get something. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case. In this country we need to be a little serious, in this country we need to know what lies ahead, and in this country we need to anticipate, not guess and wait for the outcome of the Luxembourg Financial Perspective proposal, find out that something is falling and then say, "Yes, now we are going to go three regions," but Europe will say, "Now you will not go three regions, because you are only one and you will remain one", and this is the region, with the addition of Bulgaria and Romania, will have an average gross social product of at least 77%, if not 78%, which means that we are out of the position of net recipients. This is really not a joke, and we need to know in the future, and this should be known by the previous authorities - gentlemen, the Liberal Democracy, the United List and the current authorities - and former finance ministers. Okay, you didn't take us seriously. We warned you. So level NUTS2 - unresolved. When we ratified the constitution, remember, we were proud to be the third country to ratify. Once again, in the narratives of both sides 'Smart Slovenian National Party has no idea', we warned against admiring, not rushing, let's wait, let's see what happens. That's when I personally warned you that the constitution would certainly fall at two or three referendums, that's what happened, not that I wanted to, but it did, but it did, but it has serious consequences for Slovenia, that's not a joke, I'll tell you again. You didn't believe us. If Slovenia, that is true, I have also been told by some whom I know from Europe luckily, if Slovenia ratified the treaty now after the French and Dutch non-EU, we would be the focus of the world's press, we would be, and we would say, "Yes, but we are ratifying" and would say, "Look, a small, proud Slovenia ratifys when a powerful France and a powerful Netherlands say 'no." No, you didn't listen to us, we go up on our noses and we go into something we don't even know about. And now we can slowly move on to the consequences. We in the Slovenian National Party openly and honestly, but you laughed at us, and you warned us, "Gentlemen, it is not a joke or Slovenia will preside, because this honour has been given to the European Union, together with the other two countries or in the troika alone." The fact is now clear: Slovenia will preside independently. We asked you to make a department without a department, get a staff, take people donkeys for four years, students, translators, change the donkeys law to get students, translators and lawyers, and hire them for a certain period of four or five years to be ready for the presidency. No! No! No one can guarantee me today, so I warn you from this place how it will be over - very, very, very soon. Because it is not a joke, believe me, I have been in a number of countries that have led the European Union. It's not a joke. I really don't. A huge organizational bite is a huge human resource, a huge financial bite. And we'll be doing shame all over the world if we're not ready. I hope we sober up, and we will. ERM 2, we are now in the future. Great. I am proud of this, and I am proud that if we have already adopted the game, then let's take it to the end and start the euro in 2007. What happened to "no", two major states? There's a third coming. Well, not just Britain. Another one. What happened? He lost the euro on his watch. And he'll lose. And the fall in the value of the euro as Slovenia introduces the euro can be a very, very cruel consequence for the country of the Republic of Slovenia, for its financial structure, which, of course, is more appropriate for people today with us who will tell us this. But we are on the path of introducing the euro, which will weaken, which will not have any effect, when some countries, in parallel, hope that they will fail, apply their own currency back. Last but not least: why Sweden, why does Great Britain, why Denmark, not have the euro? Finally, why does Norway, for example, not want to join the European Community, why does Switzerland not want to join the European Community? British rebate. When asked, in the Slovenian National Party, we said that Slovenia must have a firm position and say that the British rebate after so long should be frozen. So let's keep it at the same level as it is. Last but not least, we would have resented the British, and we would have shown some stand and some clear position. And we didn't. And no one wants to hear it again. When we pointed out that Britain would become the biggest contributor to the European Union, if they cut it off, we had to know that the rebate, as the Prime Minister said, cannot be as big as it is growing, because these are huge amounts. And Europe cannot bear that. Only Great Britain! In order to hear from Spain that Finland will come forward, to hear from the Netherlands as well, and which are the main culprits for the fall of the financial perspective 2007-2013. And she fell. And today we must be aware, and today, of the view that the State of the Republic of Slovenia has also fallen at the level of the envisaged net revenue from the European Union as it wanted. And don't throw sand in your eyes. We will never see what we wanted, what we wanted, and what we should have, to equalize ourselves again; when this financial perspective is no longer in place, the fundamentals change. And because of these bases, the average gross social product of the Republic of Slovenia is changing compared to the European Union and, of course, the situation of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, which will become a net payer in more or less content. This morning, however, we discussed the budget rebalancing. So, about this country's budget. Now imagine in this conversation that we have had, another addition that we have not listened to today. Where will this country get so much and so many billions that it will pay them into the European Union? There are warnings again, and look ahead. In addition, I must say that in the Slovenian National Party we understand that negotiations are difficult and we know that we need to negotiate as much as we want, but we do not have the principle. We condemn indiscretion. Ladies and gentlemen, how can I hear from one of the political options today that it will request a referendum on the entry into the EU of a neighbouring country, provided that the same party has clearly signed and formally and legally and confirmed at this national assembly that Slovenia supports the approach, in particular the approach of the neighbouring country of Croatia. What's our principle if we don't have it with each other? How can one party even afford that? This decision was confirmed, and this decision was sent on behalf of the National Assembly here on this site, when I personally warned myself. And today, we will demand a referendum - we can be ashamed of our neighbours, Croats, who I respect at least so much that they are principled, but not as reckless as we are. And not lastly, for our future. We were saying, "Schengen." What's gonna happen? The European Constitution will obviously not be adopted. It's gonna work, Nice. Nice allows the expansion of 27 countries. We have always been cautious in the Slovenian National Party until the entry of neighbouring countries. We have warned, then we have supported and what will happen now - suddenly we will be on the eastern border, Slovenia will be at the Schengen border exposed to military dangers, exposed to huge costs and also exposed to huge economic losses. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be. We all want this market to expand so that we can avoid our Schengen as long as possible. That's what we all want, but it won't be if the constitution isn't adopted. 27 countries, two are still with us, and the expansion is over. At this point, however, it would be good if we were to expand further from a security point of view. In the Slovenian National Party, we have taken the game that the State of the Republic of Slovenia is also an integral part, one region or two, I hope that we will soon decide how many regions there will be in Europe; also a member of a large country called the EU, in which we must fulfil our obligations, in which we must seek the rights we have, and in particular in which we must also seek our principles and our standing as a small, proud country. The Luxembourg President said I was ashamed when the new poor members were ready to give in to the big ones. As the Prime Minister has said: no, they determine the size of financial policy in the EU. Those who pay will also decide how this will be shared. But on the other hand, this can be said because all those new members who are poor members can laugh because even if the financial perspective is adopted later, many of them are those who will be nice net recipients, but be aware, also at the expense of the State of Slovenia, at the expense of the two governments, the former and the present, and at the expense of the fact that we cannot continue to speculate. Once we have to take a position and say: Slovenia will have two regions and we will work and we will do so and whatever happens will happen. I think it's right that this debate is today. This debate is not intended to review the past, but to remember how much better and how much faster it is to move forward. And here is now the moment when you are the Eurosceptic and Euro-realist party that you have mocked, warns everyone, let us be the only one here; because only here will Slovenia prosper if it has standing and if it will fight for its rights and if it will fight for an equal position with all the other 25 or 27 members. And don't argue politically, give our support to the government, whatever it is, and be careful when we look for our advantage in leading Europe. I would also like to say this: let us now think and now give this government, to set a goal, the goal that Slovenia will achieve in 2008, as any country that holds the presidency of Europe would want to achieve itself. It's good-natured again. It's for your own good in 2008, in charge. And let us accept this goal together and drive this wagon together if we are already arguing about the budget rebalancing or the budget within this country, let us be united at least in the budget outside this country and draw from it all that we have earned.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you, colleague Barovich. The representative of the DeSUS Group shall have the floor. It's not a big deal. We continue with the position of the SDS Group of Members, Comrade Milenko Ziherl. There's no interest either. We're moving to Apologies, if you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! A colleague of mags. Milan Cvikl has raised such a question or a similar question to the Finance Minister, Dr Bayuk, on several occasions on the European Union Affairs Committee. This question is somehow linked to the coming up of that committee. The work on the European Union Affairs Committee is specific because of several facts. The materials for the meeting of the EU Affairs Committee are mostly received only on the day of the hearing, in a foreign language or under-translated. For further clarifications, we often miss the presence of the Minister of State or the Minister of State, which the Chairman of the Committee has already reported on several occasions and at the same time called for improvements to the working conditions of the Committee. Nevertheless, most members of the Committee are prepared to work with what is available and are ready to discuss, to form views on the proposals under consideration and for normal work. Let me mention that, at a meeting or in interviews with the European Union Affairs Committee of the Luxembourg Parliament, we have found that they have the same problems. In all Member States of the European Union, there is a certain consensus between the members of the Committee coming from different parties due to a single intervention to the Union itself. Therefore, the meetings are closed to the public so that there are no reservations to the debates. Things are different in our EU Affairs Committee. The ongoing procedural complications, the lengthy discussions on working conditions, the absence of ministers and the like have led to no or constructive dialogue. In such an environment, we have begun to get acquainted with the content of the following financial perspective. In view of the events in Brussels, only information has been more frequent since March 2005 when the Luxembourg Presidency first presented the basis of the negotiating framework methodology and we were able to begin, and we started to work more and more frequently on this matter. We were informed and discussed on that negotiating framework on the Committee. The negotiating framework opened the possibility of discussion under all six headings and subtitles of the perspective. These are competitiveness, cohesion, natural resources, citizenship, freedom, security and justice, the European Union as a global partner and expenditure related to administration. During the first stages of the negotiations, it was difficult to expect binding numbers which would be the negotiating points of Slovenia. But it was always the fellow Member who asked you. It was felt that not because of the great concern for the future of Slovenia, but the tendency to politicise and abuse the data obtained. If the numbers were really low, I would talk about the government's lack of ambition, and in comparatively high objectives, I could talk later about the lack of bargaining power. At the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, also attended by the Minister of Finance, no reply was satisfactory for the fellow Member, although he had more or less met the expectations of all the other members of the Committee. A new question in style has fallen over time: it is not possible to answer such a smart question that it would not be more foolish to ask. At the last meeting of the committee prior to the conclaves, where these final decisions on the next financial perspective fell and this meeting was held on 11 June, the Government’s views were drawn up and presented in an appropriate manner. The outcome of the negotiations was the fact that Slovenia expects twice as much of the funds received as in the previous financial perspective and that it will not fit in with the lower value. The question raised at the 6th ordinary meeting of the State Council to the Minister of Finance was raised in the context of all these developments. In the SDS Group, we estimate that the Minister has responded adequately to the questions raised and to that additional question. In doing so, he explained all the circumstances which had an impact on the negotiating venues. He drew attention to the limited resources and to the expectations of difficulties in adopting the next perspective, particularly with regard to the question of the so-called British rabbi. Subsequent events indicate that the changed circumstances raise the question as irrelevant or a new, more important question that is supposed to be expressed in this way. By what measures will Slovenia maintain favourable negotiating points for further negotiations on the next financial perspective under the new Austrian and British presidencies and so on? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation of the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, mag. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u14	First of all, it was not the Minister of Finance at this meeting of the Committee, but the Secretary of State. But what's important is the next. I would first suggest if you could provide, in accordance with Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure, government representatives present, as they were appointed, that we do not discuss [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u15	Mr Cvikl, I can call from this place Mr Bajuk, Minister of Finance, to whom you have addressed the question of the Member of Parliament, I am also doing so just now. But I think one of the representatives is with us, and I'll ask you if this is the time I'm asking if we're going to continue the meeting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u16	Mr President, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 235, Mr President is not authorized or authorized to speak here, so I would suggest that he does not have the sense to speak to the Minister and not look him in the eye, so that the Rules of Procedure provide [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u17	Look, we just got assurances that they're going to be in contact with the minister right now. I believe he'll be here during your speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u18	Okay. Well, then I will first answer to the Prime Minister who has left, but let him remain for the Slovenian public. First time. It would not be funny if Slovenia did what other higher-level countries did, nothing would be funny. Just as it was not funny when the Republic of Slovenia, together with these countries, requested funds for Schengen or when, together with these other countries, Scandinavia, Spain, Portugal, neighbouring Austria contributed to the constitution agreement in 2004. It is funny, however, that the Prime Minister tells the media that he has offered nothing because it would make the negotiating position worse for the future. This means that the Prime Minister does not understand how European policy is done. And I would like to discuss this further on behalf of the Member's Club. I think it would be good to find firstly that the position of the previous government, which was also adopted in this national assembly in early May 2004, was very close to the position of the Great Britain and the countries of Scandinavia, Spain and others, because we said that it was reasonable in the European budget to provide resources for growth, for competitiveness, for strengthening the Lisbon strategy and that it was therefore necessary for the European budget to be around EUR 1000 billion. And we said that only if the negotiations on agriculture, on intensive farming, on rural development, are opened, will Slovenia agree to reduce the total volume. This government has changed this position three times past the National Assembly and has agreed to an ever-increasing volume of funds. To an ever smaller volume of resources not only for cohesion, but also for rural development, as reported by the media, but mainly for the reduction of funds for the Lisbon strategy and for job creation. Mr Prime Minister spoke a few months ago about Mr Lisbon, even in this national assembly, we spoke to Mr Lisbon about this being a minister for development, and that is no longer the point. There is also no money in the budget balance that we have adopted today to support the Lisbon Strategy. As a columnist wrote down by one of the major Slovenian clocks, we have a very funny budget balance when words are not supported by numbers. Secondly, the key question, which is once again a European issue, is what is the way of adopting the views of the Republic of Slovenia vis-à-vis the old 24 countries. The Law on Cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly, adopted on the basis of constitutional changes, with a two-thirds majority in this National Assembly, is clear in this regard. Before Mr Janša said on Wednesday, on 8 June, to Mr Junker that we should be able to get at least twice as much as we have received in the previous period, he should come to the National Assembly. That's not what Mr. Janša did. On the contrary! On Friday, two days later, he sent his Secretary of State to a meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee and said to gain the mandate that the State announced on Wednesday morning. And this mandate in the document that we Members have received internally, so, of course, I will only talk about that part of this document, which Mr Janša has already spoken about publicly before. The main issue that the Prime Minister has not been entrusted with is the following. If, at the time of the European Commission's proposal, we were offered four times more than in the previous period, four times more to talk about numbers because they are no longer secret, 20 billion in the previous period 2004-2006, and the European Commission, you can look at this in European Parliament documents, it has offered us about 80 billion. Simply put, on behalf of Slovenia, that we are satisfied to get at least 40 billion, cannot pass through the national assembly. At least not as long as the law on cooperation between the government and the state council is in force. The Prime Minister should arrive at the State Assembly College on Tuesday, 7 June at the latest, and was rejected, proposed on Friday, 3 June, where he would have had this debate. The debate on the future, not the debate on the government's mistakes, why it failed, for the first time, to come after the mandate, and why, of course, this mandate was not such that Slovenia would get at least 70.75 billion, as much as it could get if it negotiated a little. That's true, let me only confirm with two numbers. On that Friday evening, instead of 10% of the customs duties in the ports of the Netherlands and Sweden, the Netherlands and Sweden were given the opportunity to obtain 20% of the customs duties that are allocated to the European budget for their needs. The Republic of Slovenia could peacefully request a similar request for all customs duties carried out for the European Union in Luka Koper. It wouldn't be weird. The Republic of Slovenia has not proposed this. The Republic of Slovenia did not even know they were negotiating! So, gentlemen, at the head of the Prime Minister, and gentlemen negotiators, when mandates are formed, it is good to listen to whether anything more is possible than what experts propose. This needs to be done in consultation with other European ministers. It would be good to have the Foreign Minister involved, because the conclaves where this was negotiated are the conclaves where they value the rank of minister. With all due respect to Mr Koprol, who on Thursday, June 9th and Friday, June 10th, tried to resolve what to do, but compared to the Minister for European Affairs of Poland, the new Minister for European Affairs of France, the Minister for European Affairs of the new Blair government of England and so on, is simply not recognised in the ranking. Therefore, it would be good for the government to say who is the one negotiating on behalf of the government. Those who have access to the ministerial conclaves - let me say that the ministerial conclaves have either European Affairs Ministers or Foreign Ministers, or this is the Minister of Finance. No government in the European Union has elected a finance minister as the leader of the working group to negotiate the next financial perspective. The reason is very simple: finance ministers have too much work at home, too much work to deal with matters related to, for example, budgets, but above all they are too restrictive in their orientation to think about a seven-year perspective. That is why they are always ministers who have the full responsibility of the European Union or of European affairs, or ministers authorised by the Prime Minister, ministers for development, foreign ministers when it comes to specific points, but always ministers who are not ministers for financial affairs. That's what happened this time. Although we have appointed the Minister of Finance in Slovenia as the leader of the working group for the next financial perspective, I would like to hear from the Minister of Finance how many meetings of the working group were and when he sat in conclaves with other ministers of European affairs, how many meetings of the group 17 was the Minister of Finance. So, we have a situation where it is not completely clear who is negotiating, and when the Prime Minister is unauthorized on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, past the term of office in the National Assembly, tells the President of the European Union, we would be in favour of giving us half of what the European Commission has offered us. This is, of course, a bad negotiation. The debate of the Prime Minister drew attention to a number of questions which I will follow up on. However, let me inform you that for these reasons, for the first time, because the Minister of Finance did not respond well to my question, and for the second time, because the Prime Minister was invited to Mr Juncker and did not intend to come to the National Assembly, he wrote to him personally. I wrote him a public letter. On its own behalf, on behalf of the Member State Club, and of course as the concerned President of the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances. I have found that if the next financial perspective is not adopted, Slovenia will have serious problems in 2006 and especially in 2007. The Minister of Finance is preparing a budget memorandum for these days and is preparing a budget for 2007. The 2007 budget cannot be drawn up without an agreement on the next financial perspective. So it's pure deception by the Prime Minister that there's no problem. There is no problem if we do not agree by the end of June or if the next financial perspective has not been agreed by the end of June. In this regard, I should like to mention that the Prime Minister is missing an important opportunity because a number of countries within the European Union are currently considering calling for another council before the end of June, as was the Council on the question of negotiating a global trade organisation at the level of foreign ministers that would possibly close the situation. I do not hear representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia thinking about such a world. And it would be good if we, along with the other sixteen, of Group 17, did so. This would be good because the agreement in 2005 allows a reasonable budget for 2007 and allows a year and a half to prepare for the absorption of structural, cohesion and other funds from the following financial perspective. So of course it's not true that it's not a problem. This is a big problem for Slovenia. And this problem will escalate in 2007 and 2008 in uncontrollable Slovenian public finances. Slovenia will then invest some 60 to 70 billion in the European budget at the annual level, but it will not be able to receive a tolar, as there are no lump sums at that time. The Prime Minister did not reply to the letter in which I reminded him of his responsibility. Expected by the Prime Minister. Above all, he did not respond to our formal invitation to attend the National Assembly. As you know, his secretary of state arrived two days late. How's it going? First of all, we believe that there is a need to clarify regionalism. I must tell the Prime Minister that it is not true that the previous government has not acted in this area. As soon as it entered the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia transmitted in the summer months the first and in the autumn months the final request of the Republic of Slovenia to the territorial division of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the Regulation establishing a common classification of statistical territorial units. I've got the file right here. This government would not, without this document prepared by the previous government, have received the Commission's position on 21 March that after several meetings, including meetings in Hanoi, the Commission would be prepared to review Slovenia's regional classification and to do so within a period of less than three years. For the ignorant among you, this means that it could be agreed by the end of 2006. The RS government has been hiding this document from members of the opposition since 21 March because we received it at a meeting with the Secretary of State on 10 June. This document enables the regionalisation of the Republic of Slovenia. This document is the basis for constitutional changes and, more importantly, for three regions. This may be funny for some of you, but this document says we have a "case." There are 56 regions in the European Union that are less than 800 000, including 25 regions that are smaller than our smallest region, central Slovenia, if we go to three regions, so we can get it if we all speak the same way. But if we're going to fight about this, if we don't accept the constitution, if this is going to be a question of what the old government has done, what's new, then of course, or if someone else has told the Minister of Finance, I don't talk, you have to make a deal at home first. [[...]] That's why we filed constitutional changes yesterday. That's why. Regionalism will allow us to obtain more resources in the negotiations for the next financial perspective, for Eastern and Western Slovenia, than if regionalism is not available in Slovenia. This will not be easy negotiations, but it is their prerequisite for us to develop appropriate administrative skills in Slovenia. Constitutional changes are a formal condition for this. How's it going? I would suggest that we respect in particular the laws in force: the law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly. I would suggest that we have this kind of discussion in public. There's nothing left to hide. Following the fall of the constitutional referendum in France and the Netherlands, these countries themselves are opening discussions on European issues in domestic parliaments. Why? Because one of the main points of opposition to the Constitution was the under-democratic nature of these procedures. You yourself know that in the Slovenian Parliament we had a serious problem with this when this law was passed with a 2/3 majority. I also believe that in Slovenia, the fact that 57% of Slovenia's latest opinion poll has expressed expectations that when the euro is taken over it will be worse than it is now, suggests that it is in Slovenia, Europe, where it is not known who is negotiating with whom, fear. That's why I think it would be good to open this discussion. Above all, Slovenia should now take this internal step, understand that European affairs are domestic matters, that we are discussing European matters at all points of government action, in all individual laws. This should be the issue of labour law, or the question of Nature 2000. The leader of one of the coalition parliamentary groups questioned in one of the debates a few hours ago whether it was good that Slovenia had Natura 2000. Let me tell you that the fact that Slovenia has Natura 2000 was one of the strong criteria why we demanded more money for cohesion. And there would be a lot of countries in the European Union that would, of course, be willing to think about it differently. I believe that it would be appropriate to discuss all of this and to come home to consensus on European matters in the same way as it was at the beginning of the entry into the European Union. If that is not the case, Slovenia will simply become a piece of black international in European affairs. It will not be a country that will seek ways between the east and the west, between the south and the north, but will seek out the coalition between the various coalitions within the European Union, which will be optimal at individual points for Slovenia. It will not be a country that will be some kind of bouncing board or, as the English European Minister has said, someone who will listen to what is going on in the field of South-Eastern Europe and inform us of this to understand whether the rule of law or the government of something else is in the neighbouring Croatia. It will not be a country that has so far been understood as best prepared among the new members, but will simply be someone who will not be taken into account in the debate. Therefore, it does not matter whether the Prime Minister woke up on Friday at midnight and joined the senior group. It doesn't matter. Or we stayed in the eyes of a lot of people, like the ones we're already protecting. I think it would be good, of course, if the Republic of Slovenia acted within the European Union as it did in the past. We have drawn up positions in a transparent manner and have defended these positions in the European Parliament, on European councils and on visits to Europeans, 24 countries of the European Union, with us. It would be good if this country were to encourage the entry of another 50 to 70 million Europeans into the European Union. And it would be good to have a country in which budgets, as well as economic policy measures, would promote the Lisbon strategy, rural development, environmental protection, the movement of the Schengen border south of us, take care of the citizens and respect the diversity, but not to have a country that would be different, a country in which even the Prime Minister does not understand that I went to Hanoi because Mr President of the Republic of Slovenia Drnovšek was unable to go, and I represented the Republic of Slovenia at the time of joining the ASEM as a member of the European Union. That is why the government has decided that the European Minister is fit to go on this trip. I hope that when the meeting of the countries of Asia and the European Union, in Helsinki, during the Finnish Presidency, either the President of the State or the Prime Minister or at least the European Minister will be able to travel there and to represent the Republic of Slovenia. Insinuating by the Prime Minister - unless I see it as a special war - what I did in Hanoi is a misunderstanding of Europe and a misunderstanding of the role of the Republic of Slovenia in European processes. This would be discussed further, because otherwise we will understand European matters at a large scale - in the distance between understanding the facts and understanding what European policy is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you, Comrade Squeakle. Following is the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, which will be presented by Ambassador Franz Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, all present! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we believe that, given the latest developments in the European Union, the rejection of the Constitutional Treaty at two referendums, the uncertainty about the future fate of the Constitutional Treaty, the negotiations on the next financial perspective have failed, a broader and responsible debate on cooperation between the Government and the State Assembly in European Union matters. This topic, which was the reason for this debate, is one of the most important, perhaps most important at this time, but we have before us and we will also have a number of other very important topics. This is not only a formal implementation of the Law on the Relations between the National Assembly and the Government, a formal mandate of the Government and also a possibility to confirm government positions only by the government coalition, even without opposition Members, but it is a state of Slovenia, its strategic interests in the European Union and, ultimately, a political culture. First of all, let me draw attention to some of the problems that I see and experience in view of the experience I have had in working in the Committee on European Affairs, as well as in other working bodies and in the other field of work in this National Assembly. The Government shall inform the EU Affairs Committee of proposals and relevant documents and of developments in the European Council and its formations, in a timely and almost untimely manner. The Government sends its views to the National Assembly, in particular the Committee, in a timely, sometimes not even before the meeting of the Committee, or it does so so late that, as has already been mentioned today, there are no conditions for serious consideration. From the point of view, we receive members and members of the committee at times just before the meeting, and sometimes even at the meetings themselves. There are usually, or even often, no ministers or responsible and competent representatives of the Government with the necessary powers at the meetings of the Committee. All of this changes the EU's handling of matters, unfortunately many times in naked formalism, devalues the role of the National Assembly and finally demotivates Members and Members. Given the weight, importance and complexity of the problems that the enlarged EU will face, which is more obvious every day, and especially given the high expectations, the new challenges and risks that Slovenia faces, especially in government and government coalitions, it is also the greatest responsibility. In doing so, let me immediately add that I agree with those who say that it is also a great responsibility before all of us, it also appears to Members and Members of the opposition as well as others. Regardless of the future fate of the Constitutional Treaty, the overall trend in the EU is to strengthen the role of the European and national parliaments. It is therefore high time for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure a responsible relationship and better cooperation with the National Assembly, which is primarily in the interest of the State. This will be particularly urgent now that the EU is in a clear deep crisis, even if someone is trying to soften this expression. Precisely, the Prime Minister's assessments are immediately in the first reaction following the failed negotiations, as well as later, that further negotiations on the financial perspective, and I fear other important issues, are even more difficult than they have been before. That is why the government must in particular ensure that the EU Affairs Committee is kept up to date, as well as the leaders of the parliamentary groups as well as the final Members and Members of Parliament on the developments in the EU Council and its formations, as well as on other important matters that are taking place in the EU institutions, as appropriate. It must propose addressing strategic important issues such as the Constitutional Treaty, the financial perspective or budget, whatever the future enlargement of the Union and the like, and forward these proposals not only to Parliament, but I think it would be useful for the government to forward them to the leaders of all political parliamentary parties or their parliamentary groups, both to positions and to the opposition. It is probably right now, at the moment of this major crisis and the difficult time ahead of us, the moment for the government to do something like this to bring together the most responsible people, the leaders of political parties and the leadership of the country, and talk about how to proceed, so that we can be as successful as possible, that we can have the best possible position and that we can work together as uniformly as possible in the institutions of the European Union, including our MEPs. It is necessary to send proposals and materials as early as possible and positions to the National Assembly, both to the Committee on European Affairs and to other working bodies, which would allow timely and qualitative treatment and adoption of views. Finally, it is essential to ensure the participation of responsible, authorised and competent government representatives or ministries at meetings of the Committee on European Affairs and other working bodies. And yet another question that concerns all of us is that we are trying, through one continuous constructive dialogue between the position and the opposition, to avoid that the strategic interests and strategically open issues discussed in the European Union are used for internal disputes and debates to raise political points. In view of the experience so far, it will be necessary to assess the implementation of the law on the relationship between the Government and the National Assembly and the rules of procedure relating to the European Union, matters, taking into account the good practice and experience of other parliaments, where they have a constant dialogue between the opposition and the coalition on, not all, but on the most important issues. It is also necessary to improve the work and cooperation of professional services and the participation of working bodies and the entire national assembly in European Union matters. Following the failure of negotiations on the next financial perspective, however, the government should endeavour to reach agreement as soon as possible. I am not sure whether I am an idealist that it will be possible to repeat it very quickly or even this month to reach an agreement or compromise, but we see that in recent days and in recent hours such proposals appear both in the European Commission and in other European Union institutions as well as in individual countries. As soon as the first opportunity arises, it is right not only to join in, but we are initiators for talks and as soon as possible an agreement. There is no need to say in more detail why this is especially beneficial and necessary for Slovenia. I think that it is also necessary to propose, within the framework of the European Union, what some other countries are also advocating, a broader and in-depth debate on the composition of the European budget and on its urgent restructuring to support, above all, the Lisbon Strategy, otherwise this strategy will certainly, as it happened for the first time, remain only a collection of beautiful declarations and the EU will increasingly lagging behind. I myself had the opportunity as an observer in the European Parliament and for some time in the Convention to listen to a number of debates in the European Parliament on how the European budget should be restructured mainly in terms of greater employment competitiveness and so on. Finally, and this reminds me quite often of our actions, not only now in this mandate, but also that there is a very big difference between beautiful declarations and actions afterwards. Now I'm just going to finish some homework, so to speak. The government should accelerate the implementation of measures to make more efficient use of EU funds. I am thinking here of the organisation, of the staff, of the programmes, of the procedures, the government has adopted a series of conclusions in early March, it is necessary to see how they are implemented or are sufficient and, if not, it is necessary to take additional measures in particular to simplify the procedures. It is necessary to adopt the development strategy of Slovenia as soon as possible and to prepare and adopt a national development programme for the period 2007/2013. Both documents provide a basic basis for the preparation of a national strategic reference framework and operational programmes in which Slovenia will define development priorities, programmes, measures and projects that will be financed under cohesion policy under such or other new financial perspectives. It is essential in the government to ensure without delay the effective coordination of the development activities of the Lisbon Strategy and the functioning of the European Union, at the highest possible level, so it is necessary to have a minister, if not even a Deputy Prime Minister. I think we've been here too long, or the government, the Prime Minister himself, I don't know for what reasons he's taking too long to predict here, and that's harmful for the country. The regional organisation of both the province and the cohesion region needs to be established immediately to obtain as much EU funding as possible, so of course we support the proposal to amend the Constitution and do not agree with those who say that there is no link between these two issues, landscapes and cohesion regions. That's not true, it's practice in us, it's practice elsewhere. If we had landscapes, it would be easier to organise and perhaps already organise cohesion regions if we had landscapes, prepare better quality programmes and projects faster and have more cross-border cooperation, which will help us many times through neighbours who have been in the Union for a long time, to provide greater funding from the European Union. And finally. In the National Assembly, the Government's preparations for the Presidency of the European Union should be addressed as soon as possible. In addition, the National Assembly should also prepare its own programme of preparations for the presidency, as time is running extremely fast. Mr Zicherl mentioned that the country, which is small and has been very successful in running this presidency, has long experience in leading the European Union's functions, that it has already started in 1992 with preparations for the presidency it currently has. This presidency will be an extremely large and difficult one. Of course, there is also a great opportunity, a challenge and also a risk. And in order to avoid the risk, it is only right to prepare ourselves as best we can for it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you, Ambassador Horvath. We have thus concluded with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. My colleague Jerovšek has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u22	Sir, the chairman. I think we need to establish procedurally that there has actually been a breach of the rules of procedure. Mr Cwickl has set up a debate where this level of question and the answer is not at all relevant. In fact, what the Prime Minister has found is already a formal history. But we have to find out that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u23	Mr Jerovšek, please form a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u24	The Prime Minister responded in a kind manner, although it was not necessary to do business, and in fact made a statement by the government, he implicitly introduced a new institution in parliamentary democracy, which unfortunately does not have our rules of procedure, on the European Union's previous summit. [[...]] In fact, we are now discussing on the basis of a statement made by the Prime Minister, because what Mr. Cwickl was saying here [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u25	Comrade Jerovšek, I will take your word. Or you'll make a procedural proposal and I won't allow the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u26	I propose that you give a procedural reminder to Mr Cwickle because he has misused the rules of procedure and that we find that the Prime Minister has made a statement to the government on the European Union's previous summit and that we now have a debate on the Prime Minister's statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u27	Comrade Jerovšek, I will probably break the rules of procedure, but next time I will not give you a procedural word. We will continue with the debate of MEPs and Members. The first on the list is the Member of the State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u28	Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! It has indeed been heard that today's debate on the response of Minister Dr. Bayuk is as interesting to the question as last year's snow if we think about things as history. However, I would like to draw attention to some of my views on this. Since I have been a member of the European Union Affairs Committee until recently, I would like to draw attention to the developments in this Committee, so that things will go better in the future and also have a greater impact on the debates than they have so far. Political elites should learn something from warnings coming from Europe about the democratic deficit, which, last but not least, has proved to be at the time of the rejection of the European Constitution in two countries. I would therefore like to mention that work on working bodies in the National Assembly is intended for a democratic exchange of views. I cannot therefore agree to a practice that has not only been introduced on the European Union's Committee on Affairs, but can also be followed on some other working bodies that Members and Members consider disturbing if we are discussing the substantive problems on the working body because the working body is a space for substantive discussions. Thus, it can be repeatedly warned that it is a waste of time that we have nothing to discuss. In doing so, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Law on Relations between the National Assembly and the Government, by which the meetings of the European Union Affairs Committees are closed to the public in order to allow for a democratic dialogue between the coalition and the opposition, they do not contribute to a better debate. That's a worrying fact. It is also concerned that, with the warnings already given that the material for the meetings is late, that it is untranslated, that another obligation that should be respected is neglected. In view of the fact that individual proposals can also be discussed on individual committees, which should in fact draw up substantive views on the fact that the European Union Affairs Committee could adopt a political position on a specific substantive issue. It is, as we say, a missed opportunity. In fact, it seems like the committee can't make any decisions because it's often all gone. The second thing I would like to point out is that it is precisely in line with the warnings of the democratic deficit that the European Parliament is in importance, the importance of the European Commission in a new constitution, which we do not know what its destiny will be in the future, and the role of national parliaments has increased. It therefore seems to me that we have been denied the opportunity to take advantage of what our law imposes on us to a greater extent and, in fact, to give the national assembly the role that the national assembly, as the highest legislative body, should have. It is not, however, that the National Assembly becomes a State assembly because of the conduct of the coalition Members and Members in particular, but we ignore the very important fact that political decision-making in this country is co-formed by the coalition and the opposition, which can be defined as important issues for the future of Europe and Slovenia by their actions and opinions. The following financial perspective concerns the period 2007 to 2013. I can live with the opinion of the current coalition that it will also retain power after the next state-level elections in 2008, but just because we do not know what will happen, it should be taken into account that the relationship of forces can change after 2008, however, a new parliamentary party enters, not to mention all the written options available. It would therefore be right to introduce or continue the experience that has been used in practice so far when we have decided on important things, and this is the entry into the European Union, the entry into NATO, where we have sought a consensus between the coalition and the opposition and strive to ensure that the views on strategically important decisions are, however, harmonised so as not to compete and tolerate internal political competitions and situations, including in the European space. And there's only one more thing I'd like to mention. I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs how Slovenia is preparing for the Presidency of the European Union. He reassured me not to be concerned that we are gaining experience with the presidency of Oussa, that everything is under control, as they say. But if everything's so great, then why do you need this cloak of silence in which the preparations wrap? For example, the priorities that Slovenia, as president, should discuss in the first half of 2008 are not nearly indicated. There was a talk about why, say, all the initiatives of the opposition social parties of the Social Democrats remained unanswered when we asked and warned about the necessity of regionalisation. I cannot help but feel that in our negotiations on the next financial perspective, too much has been put on a winning horse called 'Accepting the next financial perspective by the end of June'. This has not happened and I just wish we could learn from all this because I believe that at least lifelong learning in this country is what we all swear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you. Member Rudolf Moge has been announced for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u30	President, thank you so much for your word. The ancient Greeks said it was everything. He even defended Pythagoras. He wasn't wrong enough. What I'm saying is that our behavior also depends very much on what statistics are that monitor these data of our lives in which we live. If I mention only a few statistics that are very interesting between Slovenia and the European Union, then I can say that Slovenia with two million square kilometres, compared to Europe with 456 million, means that for twenty-five we have 4 mills of the whole territory in these countries where we are united. While the employment rate is 51.4 in Europe, we have 55.4. If I give you some more information, because I won't kill you for long, the rate of male employment in Europe is 59.9, with us 61.8. Then the unemployment rate in Europe is 8.4, here is 5.7. It's about men's unemployment. In women, it's 9:9-6.4. If I can get some more information on social protection. Social protection expenditure, this is a share of gross social product, in Europe 27.3, with us 25.4. Share of aid for social protection, for health care, Europe 27,9 mi 31,3. Disability Aid Rate, Europe 8,2 mi 8.5. For the benefit of age, Europe 41.5, me 44.7. So I see we're somewhere on average, once up, twice down. Gross domestic product at current prices of EUR billion, Europe 10 trillion 208 billion, and we 26 billion, which means that if we translate into the language of statistics, we have reached a gross social product per capita in 2003, according to our data, although we do not yet have official data, with regard to Europe, already 76.8% of the European Union average. There's a rabbit in this bush now. This data shows that we are small in Europe, although we feel about the territory and the number of inhabitants, but are well placed on the average of this new creation. This data, a gross social product per capita, is one of the key data, criteria for the acquisition of gross social product or for the acquisition of funds from cohesion funds. We've been here since 2002, I have Eurostat's data, we've been under the average of 74.4, so we can only draw funds from the cohesion fund, that's the majority of these funds. Now that this thing moves on, we're gonna get out of this. This means that we will pay for the European Union. I am very happy that we are so economically stable that we are paying for this and that we are not getting anything. I'd like to warn you about a defect here. These things are not counted when these aids are obtained, on the gross social product of the resident in the country, but on the social gross product of the residents in the second unit of the standard classification of territorial units, i.e. at the second stage. What do we have in the Republic of Slovenia when we collect statistics and try, on their basis, to perform in an reasoned manner in the European Union in order to obtain funds? What do we got? On the fifth unit we have municipalities, we have some through 190 and these municipalities are also operating administratively. We have administrative units on the fourth unit with 58 administrative units, and they do. At the third stage we have statistical regions, these are 12. Dear colleagues and colleagues! These statistical regions are dead boxes. There's nothing going on in them. We have them set up because Europe requires them to. On the second unit, you probably don't know that, but I have obtained a regulation on the standard classification of territorial units, but our country Slovenia is divided into two units, one is Ljubljana with its surroundings and the other is all the rest of Slovenia. This is the case in Slovenia. In the European Union, however, we are as a whole on this second classification as one country. This reminds me of what Prime Minister Janša said in Maribor when he was with the ministerial team, that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana with its surroundings, but from this we see that it is. What prevents us from taking any further action or not making Slovenia more evenly divided into provinces, which could, for the first time, draw funds from European funds, and for the second time, that the money of taxpayers should be distributed more evenly across Slovenia, not to distribute and collect the whole in, forgive the expression, the Ljubljanans with the surrounding area, and that is where they as community beggars go to Ljubljana and for their projects. I think, at least in my opinion, it was the next thing. Slovenia is more than centralised in all areas, and so on from education, and it is high time that, at least from the outskirts of Slovenia, we do not want to be eaten by foreign financial capital to be divided into three regions as soon as possible. Look, we have three universities, we have three regional centres, if you want, we have three dioceses, and as for the criteria that apply in the European Union, we could also reach three cohesion regions. It means that someone who strongly "fits" this centralism, which conditiones almost all higher education jobs in Ljubljana, at the edge of nothing, this apparatus or those leaders, perhaps some customers in the country, are afraid of coming to three provinces, because they would lose a large part of the capital, would be more evenly distributed. Customer chiefs would also damn well consider who would be the head of the provincial committee, because the parties outside are not getting elections at state level, but they are getting elections at country level or, if you want, now of these regions where I'm just telling the story. Therefore, it would be more than necessary to step together and somehow accelerate this regionalisation. I can't imagine in the negotiating group of our country going to Brussels to talk about having three regions, but we would ask, yes, what are these three regions with you, and we would show them part of the map up. And we'd say what the content of these regions, what the administrative apparatus of these regions is doing, and we say we have nothing. It is clear that they are not stupid enough to recognise three regions, cohesion, administrative or whatever you want with such arguments in Slovenia, on the basis of which Slovenia could develop more evenly. Look, now we have a region in the country. That means the whole country is also a country. I just want to show you on one occasion how we can't do anything on the edge. The Styria part, there is no other company in Maribor to be proud of, but they say it is owned by Slovenia. Almost everything is foreign capital, capital capital comes from countries bordering on this part of Slovenia, so to speak, German capital. Go to Primorje to see! While they have the port of Koper, they have Revoz in New Town. But I don't know if this thing's gonna last long, if we're going to have the division that we have now. In regions, such as Austria's Styria, they tried to obtain funds from the European Union for the euro regions and sent invitations; I was on my own first. Since we have no other region than the country, they have sent an invitation to the country to have representatives of the region of Slovenia come to speak with representatives of the region of Austria of Styria. Do you think someone's here? There was no one here. Even the comments were about the fact that now that we are in the European Union, we want to create a great Styria. Secondly, once again the same invitation in one year to go and try to obtain funds for cross-border cooperation was signed by Mr Reinhold Pur, Prime Minister of the Austrian Styria, for Austria, and with us Mrs Marija Kratner Rozina, Acting Director of the euro region North-East Slovenia, Maribor Development Agency. Listen, everybody can laugh at us like that. If you don't believe me, I can reproduce these things. And we're not capable of collecting the money lying outside our door. That's our thing. We are responsible for this if children do not have a job at home when they graduate from Ljubljana with their surroundings. We are also responsible for this country's doing well and for obtaining as much capital as possible. If foreign societies eat us up and if this is the way to negotiate for funds, then foreign capital will come to that territory of border areas, and then very little money will remain for Slovenia, a country as a whole. That is why I would like to place the Minister on your hearts, because you are the only one here from the government, and I respect that, for God's sake, to speak to the government for once, not only will we be chairing the European Union, but we will need so many and so many translators and so many staff, but we will also discuss, for God's sake, how will we create regions or landscapes in Slovenia, how will we try to make such a structural model in this country to bring prosperity to this country and its inhabitants. After all, you ministers have sworn before this National Assembly to fight for the well-being of Slovenia. So I can't understand that, despite being able to show you here, I have as many questions as you want, asking the Prime Minister these questions that I specifically addressed to the Minister for Local Self-Government, but I got the vague answers, and it was nothing. I would ask you kindly if we could take for the good of Slovenia once in this race after the OSCE, and after the presidency, also time for us, residents of the Republic of Slovenia. And let us once sit together and tell this national assembly what you will do with the landscape, the country, the regionalisation or whatever you want to say, Slovenia. I'm telling you, we have empty boxes on level two and level three. Great themes for this country, but some of us have also helped to create it, are behind us. Behind us is statehood, legislation, entry into the European Union and so on. We've been successful everywhere. From the heart of my heart, Dr. Bajuk, I want this government to have so much hearing to have so much spine to overcome these administrative rebellions that are in the government against this regionalisation that they will have so much power for themselves to try together, side by side, as was the case at the time of entry into the European Union, to complete this topic. It's the only theme that's not finished. I think I would be able to tell you about these development concepts and these I can also tell you, but I would probably bore you with how I would try to get some land law, what powers I would transfer from the country to the provinces. [[...]] These provinces would, for example, be financed from their resources, from taxes collected, such as from local communities, parts of the country, and part from funds that would come from outside the European Union. If, Mr. Minister, I have reached a different mental pattern in your possession, and not to overestimate myself if I have tried to tell you that something else needs to be done at this point, as it is now that this situation needs to be done, because we have another standard classification just an empty box, that we have a third empty box, fill these boxes with content, then my speech here was so that it achieved its purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mogue. It's Ambassador Anton Kokalj's turn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you very much. First, I'd like to thank Mr. Mohet. I enjoyed your lecture, or I knew these things three years ago myself and I know well, although they did not touch the agenda, but apparently today everyone can say everything that comes to mind, but you spoke beautifully, you are a good rhetorical person and I thank you for that and you have also reminded me of some things that are far behind and are no longer up to date. If I understand correctly, the agenda item is devoted to the debate on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrey Bajuk, to the question of mags. Milana M. Prickl concerning the following financial perspective, or more specifically with regard to the Luxembourg proposal of 21 April 2005. The agenda item was announced. I would talk about this and what is connected with it, and I would ask the President to make sure that the debate goes somehow in this context, given that he is a very consistent meeting leader. In view of developments in recent days, it has proved that the burden of accurate calculations on each proposal made by the Luxembourg Presidency would be a waste of energy. Luxembourg's proposal of 21.4. was known to be one of the partial proposals, and this was not the last proposal. Indeed, the government has made a slight tact with concrete data, but the EU Affairs Committee has set the basic limits and requirements, and in particular has adopted a conclusion that the government must put forward a concrete proposal before the European Summit. However, it turns out that this is not really necessary. The value of the multiple of the net sums to be reached by Slovenia as the recipient was only a reason for different interpretations in the public. It was inappropriate for individual Members of the EU Affairs Committee to make public statements in this regard before we were able to give decisions to the management of this committee after the closed meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So much for constructive cooperation, which has been talked about a lot before, especially by Mr Cwickle. Slovenia could not achieve anything more with further sharpening than that it could be among the culprits alone, that the negotiations did not end at the end of June. Now, though, some who are not here now boast that we were very close to the British proposal or that the former government was close. If we take this into account, we would probably be those who would have helped very generously and very clearly that the negotiations were not over. Thus, a decision, as previously proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, was adopted at the last meeting of the Committee which addressed the latest Luxembourg proposal, which was known at that time. The government has therefore gone to negotiate with the position of the National Assembly in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Today's debate on the past proposal is as meaningful as the basic starting points that the government has confirmed already 21.4. remain relevant for the future. The question is how to achieve these objectives in the new context. One possibility is to negotiate for two or three cohesion regions, which is also contained in the adopted declaration on the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the European institutions, which was adopted by the National Assembly. Aggressiveness and politicization of this issue already presupposes possible complications. The introduction of a proposal to amend the Constitution, if we can establish cohesion regions in this way, is an additional complication rather than a solution to the problem. Obviously, this is not about content and finding a common solution to Slovenia's optimal position on the new situation in the European Union, but about exploiting the difficult European situation to create tension on the domestic political scene. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we are skeptical of such a narrow approach to the answer to the question of the next financial perspective as regards Slovenia. Before such decisions are taken, it is necessary, like before entering the European Union, to act at least externally in a coordinated manner. The current opposition does not respect the principle respected by the former opposition on European affairs. In the parliamentary group, we are still convinced that we do not need a change in the constitution that will take additional energy from the negotiating position. Now is not the time for further politicisation, but for a very pragmatic approach for the benefit of the whole of Slovenia. We propose that the Government should present to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Committee on EU Affairs as soon as possible all possible options that are known or are possible, so that we try to withstand as many internal complications as possible. In view of the current experience of poor use of resources from European resources, we can also learn that it is very sensitive to change the system when it works for force at least once. It is therefore more important to operationalise the procedures for drawing on funds and to lose as much time and energy as possible with new structures, except those necessary to formally meet the conditions for maximum use, in particular cohesion resources. Slovenia has always boasted that it is among the best new members. However, we know that, according to certain indicators, some new members are lagging behind, and some of the old members of the European Union are even ahead of schedule, according to certain indicators. It is therefore right that we are aware that our only advantage cannot be the amount of resources that we will be able to draw from the budget of the European Union more than we will pay for it. Slovenia must also act as co-founder of the future European Union because of the indirect political and economic consequences it enjoys. In many smaller Member States, we have an example of how this can be done. But I'm sure we can only find our way and our place if we all want to. Work and results will be enough for everyone. I also call for what Mr Squeakl has previously called for, as well as for Mr Ferri Horvat, that the position and opposition in this context begin to work out in a uniform manner. Therefore, once again on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I express public scepticism on the proposal to amend the Constitution, in the light of the necessity of establishing cohesion regions. This issue will, I am sure, politicise matters and will not help us to be successful in new conditions that are now significantly more difficult than they have been before if negotiations were completed by the end of this month.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u33	Comrade Kokalj, I agree with your appeal or the first part of the debate when you warned Members and I, too, that we are sticking to the point envisaged for today's debate. However, I must inform you that it is not me, and you probably do not have the ability to anticipate the content of the individual Member's debate. Of course, I would very much like that ability myself. However, from this point of view, I also appeal to all of us together to try to adjust the content that is on the agenda today. We're moving on to the session. My colleague Slavko Gaber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Allow me, however, to try to discuss this issue now the past Luxembourg initiatives in context. I think that this is how the whole of Europe is discussing it and that it is not possible to have another serious debate about it at all. The European Union's present is written. I see it slightly differently than, I think, most of those who discuss it today in Slovenia. I am sorry that the ratifications of the Constitutional Treaty in Europe have been suspended. There is objectively a stalemate in this area of integration in Europe and, as such, it is in favour of our competitors. In doing so, Asia and America can smile cheerfully and wave their hands, and this will also have material benefits for the so-called other side with which we sometimes participate, but at the same time, whether we admit it or not, we are in the game with it, in the game for the best part of the civilization cake in this world. Therefore, non-ratification in the future, halting the process of integration in Europe is objectively damaging to the socially sensitive model of the market economy and the application of the values of Europe. And that is why we have entered this European Union. Solidarity, tolerance, the ability to compete and participate - these are to a greater extent our values and our qualities than those of another part of this world. This is a sad part of the European story. But I especially appreciate what happened in the last world as a happy event. I think this can only be useful for Europe. It would be harmful to adopt a proposal on the table, a proposal for a financial perspective 2007-2013. If we leave behind the reasons, and perhaps no one doubts that the selfish nature of both the greatest players, France and England alike, has offered Blair a new opportunity to think about priorities. In politics, there are many ways that it can also prove to be bad as an opportunity, as well as a good one, and in this case the crisis is indeed a challenge. If a coalition of pushers, egoists, farmers and youth had won this last world, that was the coalition behind the Luxembourg proposal, Europe would have given up the opportunity to seriously compete with those with whom only Europe wants to compete by 2013. With this failure, Europe has thus been given the opportunity to reconsider how much it will invest, as our Commissioner warns - interestingly enough that in Slovenia almost no one repeats it, almost no one is quoting - how much will we invest in development? How much will we invest when we start at the hardest part, in technological development in the field of defence? Europe has discussed this seriously - the debate on this should have ended if this perspective had been adopted. How much will we invest in the foundation of the research? Europe is very serious about this, and these discussions should end at the same time as this would be adopted or a complete transposition of this kind of debate. So how much will we invest in applied research, which will be the industry across Europe, so ours too, give us the opportunity to not fall too far behind - for this moment we are all lagging behind together. These topics are back on the table and there is great responsibility both before the members, Mr Minister-respected - and I think this is the purpose of this discussion - also before us, as Slovenia, to bring this topic of the development potential of Europe back to the discussion. I don't think Blair will be able to avoid it, and that he's here rhetorically caught in his own story and they're going to be chairing it, and that this gives Barroso a chance not only to redefinine the Lisbon goals, because I think he's done a solid job, but he would also be able to insist on providing funds for such a strategy to be implemented. At this point, the Commission has proved to be a very weak article in the negotiations, more or less a person has felt that he is constantly kneeling before large members and hiding in a corner and that he is thus even weaker than the Prodi Commission. What's worth the table and what's been put off the table is, let's face it, but the fruit of the previous commission. I think that at this point Slovenia should be able to give up being only in the Club of Molerators. If we're just in a youth club, it's not worth this country. Of course, we need to be able to worry about getting as much out of this European budget as possible. However, if we cannot simultaneously calculate what is long-term, if this European Union is unsuccessful, it will bring about this failure, how less we will get, even in the final, absolute numbers, if Europe is weak, then I do not know why we have joined this Union, because we are most likely not the formerly undeveloped Republic of Yugoslavia, which is only interested in what it will get from Belgrade. If that's how we behave to Brussels, then I don't understand our negotiating position. I do not think that this is the way Slovenia should afford, and I am sure that Slovenia should be among the active supporters of the European Union's development vision in the coming months. At least in the preparation of the 2006 and 2007 budget, this is what should be done at home. At present, we do not do so in any area, nor did we do so in others. We should do this here in Parliament, so it is wise to be probably on this committee, which is known to have closed sessions - and I support that it has closed sessions because there, I hope, that you mean better about some things - these cards should be put on the table and taken seriously by Parliament, the government. Because it is not a joke to talk about in Brussels, and on the other hand, I have experience on both sides: the government, including parliament, because it is always too late and too late to cry about the democratic deficit; Chirac is a typical picture that you get at the end of this, if you are doing this. Let me finish with a simple thought. What if we considered that Slovenian nationalism would once be in the constitution of a pro-pulsive Europe? So it's not that we think only of ourselves and that we think only as far as it's between the eyes and our own noses. Let us be such nationalists, that we will be interested in nationalism for the interests of this nation, that we will be interested in what we can get from a Europe that goes faster, which is stronger. I'm sure there's more to it than just ourselves and the first five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you. Next on the list is a colleague of Joseph Bajc who is not. On the list of panellists is Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. The matter that we are discussing or discussing today is very broad, too broad to actually narrow it down to a few minutes left at the disposal of the Slovenian National Party, so I will touch only or too much of the important facts that exist, but which still need to be mentioned, despite the warnings we give to the Slovenian National Party too often, even fall, regrettably, into or into the ears of the deaf. Today, in fact, we have heard a number of times or Members from various parliamentary groups say that the meetings of the working body of the large European Affairs Committee are closed and that it is even good to be open, we have heard not least from the former Minister for European Affairs. Let me say that the Slovenian National Party, when a law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on European Union matters was adopted in the National Assembly, has tabled an amendment proposing that the meetings of this working body should be open to the public; however, you have opposed everyone, from the first to the last, with the exception of the Slovenian National Party, so today to complain that the meetings are closed and that we do not know what is actually happening on this working body, is entirely unjustifiable. In his opening statement, the President said that, while it was pointless to consider something that was already, I will say, a belt that we would most likely, and it would be good to cooperate between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the future. And I'll get back to practice. Practice, unfortunately, speaks differently. In particular, on matters of the European Union. The National Assembly called for an interested working body, a committee for work, family, social affairs and persons with disabilities to decide on a decision to be taken by the Minister of Labour, specifically in the matter of working time. For a directive has come, and I am sure that you know about the directive, which also imposed on Slovenia as a member of the European Union, to limit the ceiling of working time. It's the number of hours a week. However, Minister Drobnic said publicly, without discussion in the National Assembly, without asking what the position of the National Assembly or Members and Members of this Parliament is, that he would not comply with this directive. So much for how much we can actually trust government representatives. And finally, I wonder, do they not know what they're saying, is it really a big misunderstanding or ignorance? Here I will refer to the last meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly for the Affairs of the European Union, where the Secretary of State pointed out or said that the French and Dutch "no" have an absolute positive impact on the financial perspective. Today I ask myself, and this is not a rhetorical question, and I hope that the Minister will also answer why there is not actually this financial perspective today, when the Secretary of State was so optimistic. And let me say that the Slovenian National Party has warned, warned all the time, in fact, very rightly warned that we can no longer afford such a fairy tale today. What will follow the third British "her"? Once again, I will refer to the debate that took place in this national assembly. When colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party very euphoric reasoned or denied our warnings that the urgency of ratifying the European Constitutional Treaty was not good for the Republic of Slovenia, but at that time, as I have already said, they euphorically denied this warning, and they deluded themselves that it would, in fact, be exposed to Britain, take Slovenia as an example in ratifying such an important document. It's actually hard to talk about this today. Therefore, once again, I will stress that building on euphoric, selfless hopes is not really appropriate, that the time for such work, especially if it comes from the government or government parties, is actually over. It's time for sobriety, respectable colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday or today, we did not last accept the budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. What can we actually expect, or when will the Republic of Slovenia step in or take over the euro? Does Slovenia have a plan for a single or double step in this area, and if it does, I ask again - when? A good year ago, we heard from the competent government services that a percentage of 1.14 GDP will be considered in the financial perspective - we are talking about the European budget. All countries are expected to benefit from this percentage. The Slovenian national party had already pointed out that this assessment or forecast was completely unrealistic. Six months ago, we witnessed the government's assurance that this percentage would be slightly lower, it would be 1.04% and 1.06% of GDP, which would then be real after government or government services provided. Even if it's said that we don't agree to less. One month ago, we landed happily, and I'm going to say, 1% of this promised money, we don't even have that today. Again, I ask whether it is ignorance or great ignorance in such serious and important matters. Finally, the Slovenian balance of the budget is also based on European funds or funds to be received from the European budget. Of course, it is also necessary to create the conditions for taking over or introducing the euro. Once again, I ask the minister whether or not and when? What does the overall balance of the budget mean, last but not least, the envisaged funds from the EU or the European funds and are they provided and, if not, when or what now? I also ask what really happened in the agricultural field. Let me mention only €18 million in frozen funds. Since the Slovenian legal order is inadequate, the assets frozen are not what the EU is supposed to order. In Slovenia, will we be able to draw, amend, specifically, the income law, in order for farmers to have what they own from the European funds, i.e. €18 million of European money? I'm going to bring up what I've already said to you one last time. Ignorance but ignorance. I certainly appreciate that this is a big mockery from Members of the National Assembly and, last but not least, from Slovenian citizens and citizens. We have also listened to promises under the previous government, but this government continues at this pace, so that when we enter the EU, we can work anywhere within the EU in accordance with the principle of reciprocity or reciprocity, and the free movement of labour for Slovenia does not apply. Of course, there are others who can come to us, and we cannot, except in the Eastern countries, the new Member States, go to us. And it even happens that labour legislation is being violated at the expense of the free movement of labour, when Slovenian companies also import unskilled workers from Eastern countries who are willing to work for less money for hours. Is this really what we wanted or wanted from the European Union?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you. The debate was attended by the Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. [[She's not here.]] Member Bojan Kontic has been announced for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The debate on the next financial perspective of the European Union is, of course, necessary, but at this point it is a bit too fast for it in the National Assembly - for the future. Unfortunately, it is too late for that, although timely consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly would not change the result, which is actually bad for Europe. At the previous meeting, I voted in favour of the proposal to hold a debate on the response of the Minister of Finance to the question of correspondence, although I am increasingly convinced that the rules of procedure in this part are not the best. First of all, it means a 30-day delay, which means a lot of time. This is where the train turned out to be late at the time. The second point is that this is actually a debate that has no conclusion, no effect, that is to say, a debate due to a debate in the National Assembly. But I came by mainly because yesterday, after we tabled a request or initiative to amend the three articles of the Constitution, I heard that this is not good for Slovenia, that this is not good at this point. Today, I have been told that this is a waste of energy, that this is a politicisation, that this has nothing to do with the European Union. It does not have a reliable direct link to cohesion regions and does not have a direct link with Europe. The European Charter on Local Self-Government also gives this a few words, and we will probably have some words in Slovenia sooner or later - or in a way that is slightly less acceptable for me to see the development regions spontaneously, slowly, gradually, in time, grow into the provinces, or in the way that we proposed with this change, i.e. a change of constitution, then a law with a two-thirds majority, both on financing and on the establishment and content of the provinces. In the previous term, we talked about the need to amend the Constitution, so that we could then establish the provinces by law, and some said that it was not necessary to establish the provinces with the existing constitution. When we tried to establish a province in this mandate past the change of constitution this year, it was said, no, no, but now wait a little while for these changes or the establishment of the provinces, we will first change the constitution. When we table a proposal to amend the Constitution, you say that it is politicisation and that we are losing energy, that it is not an important project. I would like to draw your attention in particular to what I said in my statement yesterday that this does not have a direct link. But if the provinces were already established and these provinces functioned, they would be much easier to combine or easier to find a common denominator for the so-called cohesion regions, which are also important for the absorption of funds. Yesterday, one of the journalists, a member of the press conference, surprised me somewhat with the question, or perhaps there is a fear that when we establish the provinces, there will be a strong association, which does not necessarily mean that it will think, politically, as does the government coalition at this point. More and more, I think that his question or his concerns are at the heart of these discussions when we are talking about the provinces. So, like I said. We are late to discuss this, and it is probably not the right place here, at the moment, for the next financial perspective of the European Union. Finally, let me say that I myself was not sad, but also somewhat ashamed, when I read the statements on Slovenia's participation in the European Union's financial perspective in the future, when they listed all those countries that are also willing to give up something for the good, in the common good, in the interests of the European Union, of course us, who are only being turned there, as we have been sometimes turned elsewhere, expecting that we will have something of this. In fact, it was that assessment he said, I think the Prime Minister, Luxembourg - I think the Prime Minister - that he too was ashamed. But from another point of view, when he observed or saw how the poorest were willing to give in to financial prospects, or negotiations, a success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you, Comrade Kontic. I give my word to Maja Shirtz. She's not in the hall. I give my word to Ambassador Davorin Terchoon. He's not in the hall. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. He's not in the hall. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. He's not in the hall. I give my word to Ambassador Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues as well! I will try to stick to the content of this item on the agenda myself, so I am discussing the Minister of Finance's response. I will begin at the end of the parliamentary question to the Minister of Finance, where it is evident to Mr Bajuk as the leader of the negotiating group that he did not have a confirmed negotiating basis for the next financial perspective in the national assembly. It is clear to him that he did not receive a negotiating mandate in the National Assembly. That's just not true. Every Friday or whenever necessary, the members of the European Union Affairs Committee shall meet and discuss and confirm the starting points for negotiations at European Union level. Also from the starting points of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the next financial perspective from 2007 to 2013 we have been thoroughly familiar with and, I stress, we have confirmed the mandate of the government to negotiate the European budget. Therefore, it is not held that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not have in the national assembly approved the starting points for the conclusion of negotiations on the next financial perspective. However, I allow the possibility that some members of the opposition were not satisfied with the outcome of the vote on this committee. Slovenia has always considered the European Commission's proposal to be the starting point for negotiations in the next financial perspective debate. Of course, it had to be borne in mind that the final agreement in June could only be achieved through the indulgence of all Member States, i.e. as a compromise between the European Commission's proposal and the proposal of the six net payers. We can now see that the failure of negotiations in the European Council will require a change in the approach to resolving the next financial perspective. As in the previous proposal, cohesion must remain a priority, but Slovenia will need to be divided into several statistical regions to ensure convergence in the more developed European Union. Once the government has adopted the appropriate basis for regionalisation and adapted its position to the next financial perspective, we will redefine the proposal on the European Union Affairs Committee. However, this is no longer the subject of this agenda item. Once again, I would like to point out that the members of the delegation of the Republic of Slovenia had the mandate of this national assembly approved in the negotiations on the financial perspective. I also appreciate that Mr Bajuk's response to the question of dispatch was entirely appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Croat. Mr. Scholch has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Germich has the floor. It's not. Mr. Potts. He's not here either. Mr Posedel. It's not. Mr. Jerich. It's not. Mr. Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Although in the financial perspective, Slovenia pointed out that more resources should also be provided for Natura 2000, which is understandable of course. This is an extremely large area in which Slovenia belongs or we have decided to include a large part of Slovenia in Natura 2000 and, of course, also the desire to obtain clearly more resources for this, it is more than clear that there will not be enough resources for both Natura and other important cohesion funds projects. Therefore, when we are discussing the financial perspective today, we must also at home ask ourselves whether it would not be useful to carry out a review of the Natura 2000 proclamation and, of course, adapt it to some actual situations, especially in the domestic environment and also in the European environment. Otherwise, it seems to us that it can really happen to us, that Brussels will decide how to protect its nature, but of course we will forget this strictly or be disabled in the development of the economy and, of course, in the preservation of the population, particularly in the countryside. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is also right to discuss at the financial perspective in Europe that the protection of the external borders of the European Union is a common project of all Member States and, of course, it is necessary to secure funds from the European Treasury for this project. Of course, the protected borders are one part of the problem of the European Union, not enough to protect, and it is also important that we allow the development and existence of life along our southern border and the future Schengen border, as an increase in the number of both police officers or all those who will exercise control at the Schengen border will also have a negative impact on some relaxed and faster development of areas along the Schengen border. Nowhere in this financial perspective are we talking about putting this problem on the table, and of course we are trying to put in place additional resources also to maintain the population and economic development, and thus, of course, to establish the most effective system of protection of the Schengen border. I hope, therefore, that in the coming periods, the government will also pay more attention to this issue and will not, in fact, deal solely with the most urgent security-related issue. Above all, we expect the government to solve and expose life problems in these negotiations. However, if it is already unable or unable to implement them, we expect, of course, both in the budget rebalancing and, of course, in the budgets that will follow in Slovenia, that more resources will be allocated from its own resources for these purposes. I would just like to point out once again that it is really not acceptable, let's say the INTERREG 3a call, which is also actually the European Union, Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary, we are dealing with something that is kind of superficial and that the funds for this in our budgets are falling. This indicates that, in fact, the government is not prepared or is not aware of everything that needs to be done to preserve life at the Schengen border and, above all, to develop successfully in the future. So I really hope that, in the next discussions on the financial perspective, the Slovenian government will first try to get the position of the national assembly and Members, because obviously everyone knows at least one detail in Slovenia, with which I can seriously warn the government that this detail can also be successfully applied then in the negotiations then in Brussels. And last but not least, I think it's a lot easier. What is happening today is simply too late and I think it is also justified to express criticism of such action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr Jerovšek has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that today we are discussing the current issue, this is the situation that has arisen since the collapse of the European Council, and I am pleased that the Prime Minister has accepted this challenge, that he has implicitly introduced, as I have already mentioned, a new institution, the classical institution of parliamentaryism in Europe, which our Rules of Procedure do not foresee, that is, a government statement on the current issue, and that we can discuss on this basis. For today, if we were to discuss what Mr Cwickl asked formally for the last time, then we would discuss the completely exaggerated issue, and I think that the Prime Minister also considered the wise state-level issue to be a provocation, an obstacle to the government's efforts, a negotiating position, and that it had jumped to a higher, better level. Now, of course, we are facing a completely new situation. And the Prime Minister rightly noted that Slovenia will adapt to the situation, trying to get as much out of it as possible. For this reason, I am surprised that, from some discussions, the Member has conducted a silent, covert manner of obstructing the government or the destruction of government positions, obstructing the government's negotiating position for the future. So it was said that the government, in any way, should have the opportunity to join, that is to say - and in some way to provoke or force a further European summit next week, as if all of this could be possible. Of course, it is necessary to be realistic that such a situation is not possible, even though some of the thinking has recently been present. The European Union has taken time to reflect, and I think it is extremely wise to adapt to the situation and also to set new priorities within the European budget. Of course, I cannot agree with this, in the way that the position of some countries representing their interests has been criticised. Mr Gaber, although he did not mention the French and some countries, to me, to be very offensive, mentioned with Bolshevik's vocabulary that Slovenia is joining clubs of oppressors, farmers and youth. Here the word "farmer" in that Bolshevik sense of swearing was used as something bad. I think it is necessary to apologize for such lingo also to the Slovenian farmer. Some countries have represented their interests and have strictly represented them and even exercised their interests. At some point, at this point, of course, the Slovenian state, the interests of these two great countries, but we, the Slovenian state and the Slovenian government cannot put ourselves in a position as if in this House we are cursing some countries and thus bring our government into a strange light when it comes to negotiations. It was also the issue that the Commission, the European Commission, was a weak member of the negotiations. In my opinion, colleague Gaber made a conscious attack on the President of the European Commission, Barroso, and in some ways also on Slovenian Commissioner Potočnik. I am aware that the Commission and the Commissioner might have a better position if they came from the largest European country or the most important. Only in this way to devalue the work and function of Commissioners from small countries, who will certainly contribute to the Slovenian position, in the Slovenian interest, I do not think it is state-level wisdom. However, this is a policy, and some of the difficulties in Mr Squill's performance have gone in this direction, to make it worse for Slovenia, it is better for our client policy. I think it's necessary to give up these difficulties and these policies. It is true that between the lines it was very well perceived, quite well. And we're probably professionals here who notice some of the highlights and also decipher them. In this situation, of course, it is necessary to say that, at this point in time, Slovenia is in a particular situation, which will have to combine all the potentials and also to be politically united in its efforts, in support of achieving financial results in the new financial perspective in the new budget in the new round of European negotiations. We know it's massively misplaced. That the previous government has failed or is not at all involved in the creation of cohesion regions. This could have been on the table, it could have been resolved because comparable countries had resolved it during that period. They have created cohesion regions and are not today dealing with the problem of how to draw on European funds and have regions that are below 75% under GDP, which is not an obstacle to drawing on certain funds. Unfortunately, at this point, Slovenia does not have this on the table and this needs to be achieved. A similar problem is these blocked 18 million funds for agricultural structural funds. Let's hope they can be pumped. But it's an unnecessary episode, unnecessary in any case. If they are later drawn, a little less will be created on the basis of these funds in the circulation of this money. Today we are quite touched by the debate whether the Slovenian government is coming for a mandate to the National Assembly, to the relevant committee. From my experience, which covers a large part of relations with the European Union, it is said that political affairs, security and so on, the government has always come for a mandate, expressed its views in public and delivered its views. It is true, however, that these positions in Brussels form at the last moment and until they are first considered in Brussels, the Slovenian government cannot bring them to the sight of the Slovenian opposition. This actually comes at the last moment, and as a result these procedural distortions are quite often present, so various bumps and bumps of pollen under the feet sound a little strange. I agree with my colleague Squeakle when he called for nothing to hide in these matters. I agree, and I am still in the position that we should do this more openly. However, on the basis of some experience and debates, I am also convinced that it is wise that every negotiating position does not come immediately to the public because some without State responsibility also immediately denunciation it in European circles, where the denunciation of such a negotiating position is harmful for Slovenia. But I agree. Once again, we're working openly. However, we have a very difficult task ahead of us in the European scale, a very difficult negotiation to obtain certain funds that we do not yet have on the table today. For this reason, I cannot agree that Slovenia was not prepared to give up. Who put it that way? Of course she was. It has even been expressed on these committees that we will give in because the financial perspective, if adopted at this summit, is in any case more favourable to us than it will be to the next. And this clear view of indulgence was expressed. Therefore, do not classify Slovenia as one of the countries that has mined a European summit that has not failed. It's again a misinterpretation, a misinterpretation, a false interpretation. And that is also why today's debate is useful and appropriate to discuss this very up-to-date topic; not what was meant politically with that question being sent, but to discuss the up-to-date issue, to reunite efforts in some way, such as efforts, all political parties at the time of accession, that the government at that time was extremely able to cover its back. The current government has a major challenge. This unity, this readiness of position, I don't see it and it's not there. These petty political intrigues continue to emerge by trying to gain political points. In view of the crisis of the European Union, I think it is necessary to reunite forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr. Juban. He's not here. Mr. Mikolitch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. At the outset, I must mention that some of the arguments in the introduction to the initiator of today's debate seemed almost ridiculous, if not at least unrealistic. In order to save my Slovenia from negotiations under the Luxembourg presidency - it is really not serious. She wondered whether she had done enough to make the negotiating points as good as possible, what would have been different if the national assembly had given the negotiator a specific mandate. The positions adopted by the Government on 21 April and endorsed by the Committee of the National Assembly on EU Affairs on 4 May did not need to be amended. The observations of the Republic of Slovenia made it clear that cohesion policy for Slovenia is a priority and that, in so far as there is a reduction in resources, according to the Commission's proposal, this reduction should be distributed as uniformly as possible, with all areas of spending being exposed to the reduction, including agricultural policy. Given the failure of the negotiations on the European Council, it is clear for Slovenia that the approach will need to be changed. Cohesion remains a priority and will need to be divided into several statistical regions to ensure convergence with a more developed EU. Nevertheless, it is important to know that, despite the recent negotiations on the basis of the current proposals for the following financial perspective, even if one NUTS2 region remains a net beneficiary of the European budget. The difference is that the theoretical net financial position of Slovenia in this case would be significantly worse, but, as has already been said, still positive. It is therefore important for Slovenia, both from a financial point of view and also from the perspective of more effective regional development, to agree with the European Commission on the NUTS2 region membership as soon as possible. The issue of the number of regions remains open, and it is important to know that only two NUTS2 or so-called cohesion regions are eligible under the NUTS Regulation. As stated above, this is also a matter of regulation of the new regionalisation. Slovenia wants the new NUTS2 region to start at an established rate in the next financial perspective, which is no later than 2007. This means that short-term procedures or regions should be put in place early. The European Commission has already announced this option in March this year, but of course much work will be needed to achieve these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr. Barovich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Slavinac. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Schwagan. Here you go. Kramberger. [[He's not here.]] Lover Bebler. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler. Here you go. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Contic. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Zagorac. [[He's not here.]] Gulich. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Today's debate on the response of Finance Minister Andrej Bajuk to the question of a fellow Member of Parliament, what is the importance of the last proposal of the Luxembourg Presidency for further development, public finances and economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia. I must say that I did not vote in favour of this debate at the time, precisely because of what we are witnessing today. I think we are talking, mostly about everything else, but very little about what was the answer and what was the question. My opinion is that not only has this happened on June 17th but I am sure that the situation would have been exactly the same before that date. In a way, I must say that today, given our presence, and not so widespread, the debate at the meetings of the EU Affairs Committee is reflected. However, it is probably not in this Chamber, regardless of your particular debates, which I would actually believe would result in a different outcome if this debate were held before June 17th and June 16th. While I agree with those debaters who have pointed out that the negotiating points of our country are on the next financial perspective for issues where the position and opposition should or should strive for the same objective. I think so, too. I think that we should both work towards the appropriate and most favourable position of Slovenia in the EU, which will enable it to develop rapidly. I must say with all due respect that some of the actions of individual opposition Members leave me with doubts as to the sincerity of these efforts. Mainly, we have been in discussions so far with rare exceptions and we have witnessed such and other procedural acrobatics, I speak mainly for the committees, but not for the substantive proposals that would improve our negotiating points. And even when such a substantive proposal came to light, it was rejected on the committee, as it turned out to be inadequate and poor because it would not improve, but worsened Slovenia's negotiating venues and made them difficult, the opposition's proposal allowed the Committee's closed session to tell reporters that the government's proposal, supported by the two National Assembly Committees, was bad for Slovenia and the EU and regrets that the Committee had not supported its proposal. That's not good, colleagues and colleagues. It is not good for our country's future negotiating points, so it would be necessary for individuals not to build their media promotion on these issues. This is too serious and important questions for the future development of Slovenia and I think it would be important to avoid such issues. I think that even without exaggeration we can find that we are prisoners of some past decisions in many areas, both in this national assembly and in Slovenia. We have debated several times about inadequate tax legislation, and we have done little to correct it, including only the segment of those who were the most persistent and loudest, but who have missed all those who are equally burdened by this legislation, do not have such strong bargaining opportunities or powers. And I think that this inadequate legislation has also caused the latest difficulties in drawing on EU funds in the field of agriculture. We have been faced with an inadequate budget for 2005 to date, where the truth must be told lovingly that there may also be a problem with the fact that it has been proposed a long time ago, two years ago. But it was strange that the authors wanted the correction to be better than the original. I think that these are all the debates that could still continue, and there would not be enough time available for today's entire debate. However, I would like to conclude that there is absolutely nothing to help us if we put these issues on the table over and over again. Nor does it help us to discuss today what has already happened, and in my opinion Slovenia had an appropriate and high-quality negotiating basis. And I think our negotiators have been adequately prepared to negotiate as much as possible. Of course, it was not what happened as a result that depended solely on our country. I think that I am also opposed to some of those who have regretted today that Slovenia has not joined the group of those countries that have tried to resolve the negotiations by giving up the poorest countries for the benefit of the richer countries so that, if I may say so, it has not joined the club. I'm glad she didn't join. I think she did the right thing. For two reasons. I don't think that would help us get out. And I think that Slovenia would worsen its negotiating position for the future. I personally hope that, despite all of this, especially because of these recent developments, today's debate will at least help us to focus more on the future together and our energy, which, as I see, is not lacking in this national assembly, will and knowledge, on issues that are important for the future situation of our country, but above all at home, on everything that we have somehow available in this interim period and which is not overly available, that we will establish appropriate mechanisms or appropriate absorption capacity to draw funds, because even if these negotiations are to come out as we all sincerely hope, it would probably not help much if we were not able to draw on these funds in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chernach. Mr. Testen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! I would like to begin by welcoming the idea of all those who said that in European matters it would make sense between the coalition and the opposition in some sense to unify and out of the way to defend the same interests. Immediately thereafter, I must say that if you have listened carefully to the implementation of Mr Squeak, it was clear from his speech whether you believe me or the Prime Minister. Mr Gaber said he was pleased that the financial perspective 2007-2013 had failed. This group of people who advocated it called it a group, not to use all the words that he used, very primitive and strange people. And he is glad that under the English leadership that our former government was also near, it will be easier to move Europe forward. I'm not sure we'll see what we can do. The second thing I wanted to talk about was the debates that are completely out of order. I expected that today we would discuss how to proceed, given that Luxembourg's Presidency is history, how Slovenia will establish new starting points, how we will negotiate under the English Presidency, how we will possibly negotiate and make two or three Euroregions. I expected a little more debate in this direction, and unfortunately there were relatively few words. Another thing that would also be very topical for today's debate is the drawdown of funds by 2006. We know that in this area and also the greatest fear in the 2005 budget balance is European resources. In this direction, we know that we have a lot of problems in preparing projects, that we have a lot of problems in training staff, that we have a lot of problems in administrative matters. Unfortunately, we haven't heard much about these things today. Experience has shown us that, in 2004, we have proved relatively poor in this area. The establishment of the euro-regions mentioned at the outset was also mentioned by the Prime Minister that a three-year transitional period was needed. What if Slovenia does not deploy Euroregions? Then what do we do? This is a question that I think we should say something about today. And if we don't get these Euroregions, then we really don't get it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Testen. Mr. Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members! As a representative of the parliamentary group, I have initially pointed out some of the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group on the European Union's financial perspective and what role Slovenia is seen in. Personally, however, I would like to stress that the government, together with the National Assembly, must do everything to ensure that Slovenia remains a net recipient as long as possible and that, as I have said, we do not avoid cohesion envelopes, but have such a cohesion policy that will allow Slovenia to draw as much resources as possible. This is, of course, mainly a political issue, what will be the strategy, how will we approach the new negotiations and what will be the Slovenian political attitude towards the performance within the European Union. It is important to note at this point that this is not only a task of the government, that it is the task of all of us to get the best possible starting points and the best possible points of view so that we can ensure priority in particular in drawing some funds from the Structural and Cohesion Funds. Of course, in view of recent events, we must not ignore the fact that some things also need to be regulated internally. This is very important in how many regions and how to divide Slovenia. In my personal opinion, Slovenia certainly cannot remain one region. Slovenia must be divided into at least three regions. We all understand why it has to be divided. Although I personally find with regret that the problem of Slovenian policy after independence is that some differences between central Slovenia and other regions are so large and so sensitive that, in my personal opinion, if we look at statistics, sometimes also catastrophic. Slovenia is a small country. You can cross Slovenia in three hours from east to west, from north to south. However, there are criteria for quality of life, the standard, and if you look across certain statistical regions, economic growth, personal income, some demographic data are so different that I am certainly concerned about some data. And certainly one of the reasons was that it was me, as a government Member, that I supported the proposal of one of the Members to speak today and open the debate. As I have confirmed myself, and also claim that the reply of the Finance Minister, Mr Bajuk, to Mr Cvikl was appropriate. For my personal knowledge, he was appropriate. But nothing is wrong and it is no harm if we speak in a parliamentary and democratic way in this House about these problems that we are facing today. If all Members were to receive telephone calls and some other problems such as some of us coming from northeastern Slovenia, and if all Members were to be informed of how and who those entities or objects that have so far drawn funds from structural and cohesion funds would be disappointed. I don't want to point my finger at some of the people who are sitting between us today bearing responsibility. However, if we cut through funds, how they were distributed in the previous term or in the previous year, we could find that the funds from the Structural Funds and Cohesion Funds were distributed where they were not needed at all. I am sure, and I am sure that this is how you think that these funds are designed to reduce the differences between more developed and less developed regions. However, if you look at where these funds were placed and why these funds were put there, it is obvious that there was a political question as to whether everyone in that place was really entitled to funds or not, whether it is wise and wise to place such funds in an environment where unemployment is 6% or 10%, or whether these resources are not needed more in an environment where unemployment is about 18% or 20% and could still be listed. To conclude with this topic and not burdening you with this, I would like to point out that it is very important, for this reason, what policy we are taking within the European Union and what policy the government will take on the inside, what criteria that will guarantee such fairness will be, to share these resources so that those who are urgently needed will be justified in order to reach these funds. And if someone here today tells me that some have not been able to prepare documentation or prepare for programmes and projects so that they can apply for such calls so that they can draw funds from structural and cohesion funds, I think it would be embarrassing to use any term. Believe me, in many cases, when I met with these people who tried to apply for different calls, the problem was that they had received too late real information that they were not politically supported, that they did not know how to abuse. And if they were to receive information in a timely manner and if they were so prepared and adapted that eligible entities and facilities could apply for these calls, they would also prepare documentation in such a segment. The problem is not in people, the problem is politics. I am convinced that people from the north-eastern part of Slovenia, as well as Dolenjska or Gorenjska, can prepare documentation, have universities, have experts and are able to use such resources. I will strongly and myself oppose any allocation of funds where, according to the statistics, the environment or that region is at the highest European level. Some statistics should also be taken into account in the allocation of funds in the Structural and Cohesion Funds. Last year, one of the ministers distributed funds in such a way that the northeast part of Slovenia, which according to statistics at the worst place in Slovenia, received a circus between 15% and 18% of those funds that were shared for some purposes and I cannot accept this way. That is why I would like to stress once again. As regards foreign policy and the view of Slovenian policy on the very debate and the perspective of the financial perspective in the EU, this is the responsibility of all of us who are professional politicians, and of all those who are professionally engaged in these segments, both the opposition and the coalitions. However, as regards the allocation of resources on the inside and the management of policy, the Government is, of course, responsible and I hope that this government will prepare these funds and these development programmes and calls in such a way that those who are eligible and who have the most opportunity to draw these resources to reduce the differences between the two regions will also be given an opportunity and, of course, an opportunity, because, in my view, they have not received these options in the previous period and would not be. However, if these options and opportunities are not given to these people, and certainly, regardless of my attitude, opposition or coalition, I am given a mandate here to ask a number of questions and also to initiate a number of procedures within the framework of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Once again, I would like to point out that I myself assess that the reply of the Finance Minister was appropriate in light of Mr Squikel's question. However, I have estimated that it does not harm, as a coalition Member, to open a debate in Parliament. After all, we are a parliamentary state, a democratic state, and no matter what my status, coalition or opposition status is, every Member has the right to be informed of the information that he is learning, and I am personally satisfied that today I have also heard some information directly from the Prime Minister, what was at the last Luxembourg Summit or the Luxembourg Presidency.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr. Anderlich is gone, and Mr. Kumer is not. Milan Friday isn't here either. Mr. Stebbe. [[He's not here either.]] Mr. Lakhovnik? Mr. Friend? [[They're gone, too.]] Trophy? [[He's not here.]] Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On this agenda item, I ask myself several times whether this is the point written on the agenda, whether it is a discussion of the budget, whether it is a discussion of the events referred to in the previous mandate or something else. I am also joining the opinion of my predecessor, my colleague Kangler, that the question of a Member, Mr Cwickl, has been answered clearly enough by the Minister. However, I firmly believe that the requirement for such a reference was mainly for the reason that there was a broad debate here and that they were trying to find some demagogic statements and statements that would try to take on this government's responsibility for failures, particularly in the past year. If we look at data on the amount of Slovenia's funds drawn from cohesion funds, from structural funds and from funds for the implementation of internal policy, we see everywhere that there were no tolars. I believe that a good discussion could also be held on this subject: What are the reasons why nothing has been exhausted? I am sure that the discussion before the negotiations would be in great harm to our negotiators and would not in any way contribute to their being more confident and more determined there. On such important matters, I assess, consensus must be reached, but not in the form of a broad debate. Why is it that we have so little resources? The answer to this must probably be sought from colleagues from the Liberal Democracy and the United List, as they were in government last year. Apparently, not even the many trips of Mr Cwickel, who spent, as we have already heard, more than 11 million tolls on numerous visits, have contributed to this, but obviously we have not been able to take advantage of any of this. Here I would also highlight a number of concerns or questions raised by my fellow Members, where Slovenia will include all the funds received from the European Union in the budget itself. As we know, we can negotiate rights to draw on these funds, which means that when we gain rights, this is the first step. The next step, which is equally important, is that we will know and be able to draw on these funds within the framework of the rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Grill. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u56	The Lord has mentioned me before me, so allow me to replicate it, because obviously the main story of some here today is what the former Minister for European Affairs has done or has not done. Allow me in this regard to answer you with a statement I gave to the media today. I propose that you turn to the government's European Affairs Service, which was at the time collecting the offer and the time frame of the visit, the whole process. Orders of small value were led by the competent staff of the Minister's Cabinet. This service also checked whether alternative flights were possible because the delegation went on a regular one-day official visit. If there is any suspicion of any irregularity, the budgetary inspection should be notified and the contents of the visits should also be verified. Mr Members, it's obviously in Parliament that way, if you ask, of course it doesn't matter what you ask, but it's important who asks. In this regard, I would also like to answer the Member of Parliament, as well as some others, to the non-reality of the problems posed by the previous Government with regard to the absorption of the European Union's funds. I'll give you a case that everyone knows. In the 2004/2006 negotiations, the European Union has allocated some 100 million Euros, about 80 million Euros of net positions for each year. The 2004 budget stated that a few billion of these would be earmarked for tourist destinations. Immediately after the entry into the European Union, the competent Ministry of Economy with Mrs Darja Radič has made the first call for tourist destinations. Terme 3000, for the wellness center, including Terme Snovik and some others, appeared on this call. In accordance with the rules, they have been given the opportunity to obtain 40% of the budget for this centre or the 200 million tolar circus from European and domestic resources. The invitation was in May. Due to the known reasons for the revision of the procurement procedure and in particular as regards the selection of operators, as I am aware, this was also carried out by November. In November, everything was paid for under the burden of the Slovenian budget. So, there's been a consumption, as the minister will well know, in the principle of the occurrence of a business event. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u57	Mr. Squeakl, this is a debate, this is not a replica, and you are also reported for discussion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u58	I'm explaining to a gentleman who says we didn't spend anything. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u59	Yeah, it's only been three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u60	Is it limited?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u61	The replica is limited. But you can discuss it now, and you won't have to discuss it later.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u62	I'm gonna finish the replica, and then I'm gonna end up talking about it. All consumption occurred in November and this consumption is already in the gross domestic product of the Republic of Slovenia. Since November 3, 2004, when you took over the government, something has not been done. And this is something that was not done, of course, I will explain below, but it concerns the role of the Ministry of Finance. So do not deceive Members, it is not the responsibility of one government or another, it is the responsibility of individual employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u63	Mr. Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The debate on the response of the Minister of Finance on the next financial perspective is the debate on last year's snow, and I am pleased that Mr Minister is here between us, at least as it appears, and does not ski in this snow. I would say that we wanted this debate to be ahead of the European summit. That wish was not heard. Then it would make sense. Today it makes sense to discuss what happens a day after that or a week after that. It is clear that we are discussing this and it is right to discuss it if we already have a debate. I would say in particular that we had some comments on the government strategy, I would say, on this financial perspective, and we have also said them. I could have been better. Even if it were better, we must admit, we would probably not have been able to achieve our goals for completely third reasons, and in the Slovenian Government, regardless of that, clearly, we cannot blame any of the blames for not having this financial perspective or agreement. There were bigger things in the game. Of course, it seems to me that if I speak from the European Union Affairs Committee, however, most of these government representatives came from the assumption that there will be an agreement on a new financial perspective already due to two non-referendums. In fact, this assessment was wrong, we have pointed out the September elections in Germany, we have already pointed out the constant complexity of the relationship between Germany and France, we have noted some trends that, after the merger, after the enlargement of the European Union, point to a number of positive and also a number of worrying directions. The coalition, which rejected the new financial perspective as it was, said not so well was an interesting coalition. It was a coalition of old and relatively rich members of the European Union, it was a coalition of those who do not want to give more and a coalition of those who do not want to take away what they have too much, if I may say so. This coalition is actually the one that was named by colleague Gaber by his real name. I think it's right to do a reflection at some point and name certain things with the right name. And what has happened, in my opinion, is more than just a new financial perspective, shows the division between Atlantic Europe and Central Europe, shows a new distribution between the issue of solidarity and egoism, and shows that as we merge and expand, we have become closer to each other in terms of the legal system, these and other normative and other political things, that, at the same time as we have become so close to each other, we have also become quite different and that, at the same time, social distances between these different groups and countries have sometimes increased. Counsellors of the Prime Minister, those who are sociologists, would say that Europe has been integrated at the political level, second and third, but has not been integrated at the social level. And that's what happened. And this integration won't come for long. Slovenia also played a role that was not recognizable. We'd like her to be more recognizable. Somehow, however, we thought that the financial perspective would happen, the government thought that somehow, like a gray mouse, it would be a free-riding principle, so that it wouldn't be too noticeable, it would take as much time as an acceptable document or a solution through this story. Of course that didn't happen. I think that all together at some level, which is not just political-ideological and operational, we need to consider certain situations. The first thing is this, I am also speaking as a member of the European Union Affairs Committee, as opposed to my coalition colleagues, I am not satisfied. I am not satisfied with the fact that the government is late bringing materials. I totally understand them here. Many times they can’t do otherwise, they get late materials themselves, they have to process them themselves, and they have to do so later, and they also pass them on late. We have to do our best to take that into account. We are always trying to take this into account, and we will continue to do so. The problem is, we don't have access to any other data. The problem of the new financial perspective was not whether the government was right or wrong. The problem is they didn't give us the calculations we hoped they had, and we believed they did. Maybe they didn't. That's even worse. The problem is that we don't have the data to talk about some things. These are data that are contextual, not only from these various directives and similar matters. That's a problem for me. Above all, the problem is because I too think that we must agree on some fundamental things that some fundamental things should all repeat the same, wherever we are and wherever we are going. If you want us to agree on this, you will have to change the way you work and the attitude towards the opposition. In particular, you are obliged to provide this information. Once, as I was told, all the dispatches came to the board. The representation of the Union or Slovenia in Brussels is not a government representation, but a representative of the Republic of Slovenia, including Parliament, etc. If you want to unify yourself about some things, that some things we all say the same thing, which would be extremely important, then again, you will have to change the way you work, but not send in fire ideological disqualifiers - one of them is confidently sitting in front of me, one kind forward, not being offended, not the first kind, the second kind forward - which is actually looking for some hidden motives and weaknesses, and I don't know what, in the part of the opposition. Regionalism and cohesion. All I would say is that he's already come forward, Mr President, so I didn't have to name a name. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u65	He'll be able to replicate it later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u66	I would certainly like to say that the story of regionalism is not as simple as Mr Kangler imagines it. If it were that simple, $45 billion in Africa would mean something. It was $45 billion, Africa was sinking in hunger and poverty, and today it is being forgiven. Money isn't everything. There's so much else. Very simple, the debate Mr Kangler had will have to be more complex and more extensive, as will the debate on the regions in our country. But maybe we're not ready to talk about this today. But we will talk about this, and I expect that the standard of this debate will rise at least a little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. You meant him, didn't you? Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u68	I meant the one who'll recognize himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u69	Good. If anyone's identified themselves, they can replicate. Mr. Jerovšek recognized himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Gantar. But I've asked you not to hide behind the sights, but say your name and last name, I have my name and my last name. If you think I'm an ideological disqualifier - this is the new term you introduced - it's no big deal. I don't know what should be scared of ideology here when we are talking about the European Union and the Slovenian position in the European Union. While I agree with you that an agreement on fundamental things is needed. That's exactly what I called for in my performance earlier. It looks like you're not listening and you're not accepting it. When you're saying that a change of attitude is needed, I would like to suggest that such strange terms for disqualification of the position should not be used. The opposition will also have to change its attitude towards the country. As I have said today, and I insist, from many performances, it has been said that as bad as possible for Slovenia, the better for our disintegrating party. I understand your difficulties; I see that there is no President at all, but it is as important a topic as the budget of the European Union. I don't know, maybe he's already abdicated. I don't know, maybe he's already abdicated in advance. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u71	Well, Mr Jerovšek, the replica, not the controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u72	But the opposition will also have to change. Here I cite the case when we were in distress before the referendum for the European Union and NATO. The opposition was the one who took the initiative and did everything. She put herself in the teeth, and I don't know all about pro-Americanity that these two big projects worked. I don't see similar initiatives and readiness today. But I plead for that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u73	Mr. Jerovšek, time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u74	Let's get together. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I don't think there's any more need for us to drag the debate somewhere inconceivable. Much has been said in these more than two and a half hours to hear good and bad, which confirms only that the debate supported by the majority in this national assembly was legitimate, legal and, above all, necessary after the debate, according to the opinion. The financial perspective 2007-2013 is not an internal political issue of position and opposition, but a Slovenian national interest. Some speakers clearly put politics ahead of me before Slovenian national interest. I will say to myself that I want to be primarily seduced by the Slovenian into the good of this country, and then to express party affiliation. From some of the debates before me it was not a hunch. Even if we want to talk about a topic, we need to talk and hear about it. Whoever listened to Mr Squeak on the one hand and Mr Bajuk on the other, could draw something useful from both of them, something good for Slovenia. We have a problem called drawing money from European funds, we are a young European country, I have been in Ireland, we have talked to the Irish about how and what problems they have had to draw on these European funds. As you know, Ireland was one of the most successful countries in this area. This is the message of this debate, which is necessary, but we need to hear and listen to it, that we need to step together, look at the problems and mistakes we have had in the past and in the future, in order to be more successful, tackled. And there's nothing wrong with having Members replicate each other. But earlier, I noticed a problem, for example, when someone triggered the replica, and the time when the challenger answered, he left the meeting and left the hall. This is simply some bonton, some respect that we hear differently, that we hear the opposite opinion. And that's what you have to stick to. It is not our place to argue here, but Parliament is a place where different opinions are expressed, different concerns, not the street, not the media, not the journalists, but this round room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Saiovic. Mr. President? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you so much for your words and for everyone's nice greeting! More or less, this request for a discussion of the Minister's response is irrelevant because these negotiations have ended in a clairvoy. The Luxembourg Presidency was unsuccessful. This was influenced by the circumstances in which these negotiation processes took place. On the one hand, the economic situation in some important European Member States, on the other hand, is too much of an appetite in other European Member States, unexpressed on the third hand, or the disapproval of the largest payers in the European budget, and on the fourth hand is likely to be made by those who expect certain funds from this package. He may first ask for an introduction on his own. In two ways, Mr. Squeakle spoke to the public in order to obtain the required information. In the National Assembly, he requested a debate on the Minister's response, and via Slovenian media he requested a similar position or similar response from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. More or less in this case, it is not a desire for the answer itself, but rather a performance approach to things that he was responsible for, to a certain extent, he also co-formed something in this introductory part. The other thing that is wrong about this is the numbers that a fellow Member of the Commission is operating on. Their website publishes their position on the government's attitude towards the problem of European negotiations and in two indents, the following paragraphs are set out in two paragraphs. One time, 1.3% of GDP is 80 billion and two paragraphs are lower than 1.3% of GDP over 80 billion. It's an extract from your website. In your statement to RTV Slovenia about your expectations, you say that 65 to 70 billion would be sufficient. In short, about the same things, maybe in a few days apart, you operate with three different wishes, with three different data. For RTV on Reflections 65 to 70 billion and in your online presentation, you once have 1.3% or 80 billion and once more, over 80 billion. It's a very large difference, about 25% tolerance. Then you yourself have made a request for precise precision to the Minister, how much between 1 and 80 billion. You, as a specialist in this field, as one of Europe's greatest experts, are talking about the same thing with very different numbers. I understand that you are very concerned about fate, about the starting points in the negotiations. However, I must say that, at least like the elected negotiating venues or arrangements, it is also important that things are called withdrawals or the cashing up of these negotiations. On the one hand, we have payments to the European budget and on the other hand we have drawing rights. Slovenia has always had a positive balance in this part. However, these drawing rights are in fact dead if adequate mechanisms, appropriate projects and so on are not available to draw on these resources. And in this part you were in your client, even in the end you were personally, principal and responsible. We can see now too, and it has been repeated that the very efficiency of drawing has not been the best in this work, and you have left a very heavy burden on the government that has come after you. There were no projects, there were no mechanisms, there was no real will. And there wasn't much realisation either. I must say that negotiations may be able to withstand much more in this pre-accession work, but unfortunately, Mr Squeakl, at that time, I think you were not involved in this negotiation process. Maybe it's one of those handicaps. I must say that in our party we have never denied the achievements of the negotiators, because we have understood that they have very difficult conditions and difficult working conditions. However, we have repeatedly warned that there are no real will for these contested rights, no real projects. In fact, you are responsible to a large extent for this. The net effect could therefore be significantly better compared to year after year. Like I said, you've left a lot behind. And that's probably mainly because you've looked too high and too far forward and somehow you haven't been able to look back at what's going on: whether this reality is being implemented or not. As the last minister, you also planned a lot, explained a lot, made a lot of promises, placed responsibility on others, and eventually traveled a lot, and perhaps even after the elections. I think that there was no travel either, I would say, in terms of drawing on and in terms of work as regards the Minister for European Affairs, at least I think that it was probably not necessary to travel to Honoi to see the impact of avian influenza on the absorption of EU funds. As far as things are concerned. One of these missing things from the period before us, before this government, is certainly the regionalisation of Slovenia. In this area, despite the fact that you had the full mandate of a two-thirds majority, you failed to prepare a law on regionalisation of Slovenia. The law was first removed, and then it was not actually considered. And by doing so, we might do a number of things in the area that we are discussing today. Another thing that has also burdened Slovenia in some way is Natura 2000. You have practically booked 30% of Slovenia for security matters and therefore have not exhausted any special means and no special status whatsoever. I live in an area where there are extremely large beasts, including a bear. And these animals are significantly more than the territory of southern Slovenia. However, neither Slovenia nor this area, either from Slovenia or from European funds, has any special status for this part. I understand that you want to make a great deal of effort in this area, but at the time you had this opportunity, you have left many things open, unfinished, unfinished and also left a great deal of burden on all your successors to fight and try to combat Slovenia's best financial position in terms of obtaining EU funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Tank. Mr. Squeak, because Mr. Sok, you don't have a chance of replicating and discussing it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u80	But I'll discuss it. It's a very short replica. Mr Tanko, I've already told the Prime Minister, and I'll tell you. I traveled to Honoja because Dr Drnovšek was invited to ASEM and I replaced him, under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If the problem is that the President of the Republic is travelling to a meeting where Slovenia has been solemnly admitted to a group of countries covering 40% of the world's gross domestic product and 50% of the world's citizens, then I think we have a bigger problem. These are the facts. These facts are verifiable. I have just been informed from the Government's European Affairs Office that Mr Coprol wishes to be personally asked for this information. This information is available, and it has already been delivered to everyone else, except those mentioned. Thus, this is the content of the answer to what is unreal deception. That's a substantive question. Other questions. Tirana, very simple. Albania is one of the countries that can or will not become a member of the European Union, etc. See, the content of the matter that we are talking about today is not actually the answer of the Minister of Finance. The substantive discussion that we are talking about today is that any question about the content of individual positions by the coalition is considered as, I don't know, what. Someone was talking about a joke or a question of inappropriate things. Of course, I fear that cooperation between the opposition and the coalition in this mandate will be more difficult than it was in the previous one simply because of the fact that we know some of the content. In this regard, Mr Tanko, 1.3% of GDP in 2004 is 80%, it is 80 billion, because we are talking for the next seven years, it will be more than 80 billion every year. And 65 to 70 billion is a position that would still be acceptable if the government negotiated. But to say that 40 billion is acceptable, of course, is not appropriate. Read very carefully what it says and what the appropriate methodology is. Look, I'm finishing the replica and the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u81	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u82	My final debate on this issue. I think that what happened on Thursday and Friday is bad, not so much because the European Union has not agreed on the best budget, but because obviously in each of the 25 countries we will now talk about what Europe means to us. I think it is good that we have in Slovenia, besides beasts, large and small, also those that are secured by Natura 2000, because I believe that this is good for our children. And I mean the beasts in the woods. Why do I think that? Because I believe that sustainable development in addition to high economic growth and full employment is one of the foundations of the European Union. We don't have to rush for North America at all costs. We don't need that. However, it is necessary to agree on how limited resources should be allocated for the purposes that give us the best results. And last Thursday, one of those attempts just failed. It is likely that analysts, historians, will write the following months and years of what happened before or after that. Undoubtedly, however, Slovenia will not be mentioned because it simply did not exist. They told me that the English term will be used "that we are setting on the fancy", standing on the side of the playground and waiting for what will happen. That was an expression. This term is usually used for "monkeys" when they "sitting on the pussy". But it doesn't matter. It is important that Slovenia was not visible in Brussels on Thursday and Friday. And that's bad. And that's bad. This is poor because, of course, we have built a position over the past two and a half years, along with others, up to 17 countries, where we have advocated that the Lisbon Strategy, rural development, environmental support, support for the further enlargement of the European Union, jobs, competitiveness, be the main foundation for the structure of the next financial perspective. When we handed over the new government on 3 December, I personally sent 5 files of documents to the Prime Minister on this subject - on the same night they were returned from the cabinet that they did not need it - about all the elements of the negotiating positions and the negotiating positions began to change. We were among the first to give in to the fact that the scale could also be lower, just so we could get, in saying, "no good position". In this respect, we have started to withdraw from the previously agreed, and in the National Assembly last year, the confirmed position that we are mentioned for Lisbon and earlier. Then, of course, this meant that the Luxembourg Presidency began to implement a game we did not react to in the framework of negotiations. The only reaction we have heard in the media, check the media, was Mr Coprol's statement, April 22nd, April 24th in Brussels, where he said this is not the best proposal for Slovenia. That proposal was disastrous for Slovenia. Because it meant not as much as it ended up at the negotiating point, but much less. And then we were more or less quiet. Perhaps Mr Minister knows that there have been some visits to the Luxembourg Presidency, but the last visit, in our opinion, according to the law, was at least inconsistent with the law. The Prime Minister can go anywhere and say anything. However, he can go as Prime Minister and cannot go on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia until he is confirmed by the National Assembly. These are the facts. Mr., who will also be replaced, because he had too many opinions, Mr. Permanent Representative, not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia in Brussels, Mr. Permanent Representative of the Republic of Slovenia, can only represent a position there on the basis of the conclusions of the National Assembly. You will all remember that last October, in the National Assembly in November, we gave this Permanent Representative the authority to say in Brussels: "We are in favour of the presidency of the first group." And now, of course, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Prime Minister went to Brussels on behalf of the ruling coalition and said there, and that would be our position. That moment they said, Slovenia is closed. And Slovenia was no longer dealt with from June 8th to June 18th. No one even thought about offering Slovenia what they finally offered to the Swedes and the Dutch to give them 10, 20 % of their customs. No one has considered that Slovenia could obtain more than other countries for rural development because of its specificity. No one has thought about Slovenia funding other regions from the Member States at any time, not to mention the regions of the countries that will come after us. Those are the facts! These facts are verifiable. After all, the government has just informed us that the document, which was still in the interior three hours ago, is no longer internal. We can talk a lot about this document, but I suggest not because the document is, in its own way, still substantively confidential. And I don't know what happened to the government this time, that Mrs Secretary-General said that some of our positions are no longer secret. But it's a matter of government. These documents were drafted in a spasm, and the story came to an end for us ten days before the end of the negotiations. That's the problem. Now we're at the beginning of a new path. Whether this will succeed in the time of the English Presidency, I doubt it. We probably have the Austrian Presidency and the Finnish Presidency ahead of us. So we're going to have to go on a trip, visit these capitals many times, talk to new teams of specialists and talk. However, before going on a journey, we need to come to the National Assembly for a new mandate. And this is the task of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I hope that the first man of this government, his foreign minister, the European Minister and not only Mr Bayuk, will play a more important role here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Ziherl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. To conclude, as a summary of this day, we could point out once again that Mr Financial Minister has responded adequately to the question raised by his colleague, Mr Squeakl. Especially in view of the fact that the situation has changed so significantly that only the question raised no longer matters. As the whole debate today has shown, on the basis of a new situation, a whole series of new issues are raised. I think that the procedure on the European Union Affairs Committee has been properly followed. While the opposition, with various procedural complications, was killing the debate, it watered it down and significantly damaged the quality of the debate itself. However, we finally arrived at the last meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee on 11 June to reach these concrete data, until a mandate was given to negotiators who said that they should not negotiate under the double value of the funds received. I think that was the best we could do. We have always had a feeling, a somewhat unspoken fact, that we would also agree to something less if negotiations were concluded under the Luxembourg Presidency, because any later adoption of the new financial perspective would have adverse consequences for Slovenia or would require further organisational efforts from Slovenia, because it would have fallen into a new state. I'd like to point out some things about this meeting. At this meeting, we received material of a confidential nature. What does that mean? In addition to the meeting being closed to the public, we received in the envelope material of a confidential nature. That means if you're not there at the time, they're looking for you all over the house, and you're signing, and you're opening an envelope with a lot of trouble, which is a little extra glue. What does that mean? It means that the topics mentioned in these envelopes are not discussed five minutes after you opened them. And that's exactly what happened. For at the time of the meeting the Member made statements to the press or television houses. I therefore intend to propose to the relevant authorities in an appropriate manner: if the meetings are closed to the public, if we are considering classified material, then this secrecy must also be ensured. One possibility would be for journalists with all the technical equipment or equipment to wait in the room where the "printer" will be. Otherwise, I don't see any point in signing, hunting material before the meeting, and then anyone can make a statement during the meeting. Then there's something else about this new situation that came after the collapse of these negotiations. I think that there will be a need to find new solutions, and we will also need to agree on how the EU Affairs Committee will work. Sooner or later, discussions on content will have to take place. We all mentioned that these problems, that the material is late, but this is not just the characteristic of the Slovenian Committee. We've also heard from one of the other committees that they have such problems. I myself believe that this is due to the fact that the European institutions are closing on Thursday and the national committees are already discussing this on Friday. I therefore assume that such problems will still be present. Most of the members of the committee, I think they are ready to also use the material that we have at our disposal, so that we want to work together in a qualitative manner, constructively discuss and adopt some conclusions that will help to move the matter forward, to move the negotiations forward so that Slovenia will still retain the status of the net recipient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ziherl. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I followed this debate with interest. The debate was called for an assessment as to whether the answer to the question raised by Member of Parliament, Master Milan Cwickle, to me at the meeting of May was, in fact, appropriate or not. However, we have heard different discussions concerning the relationship between the executive branch and the national assembly and the enforcement of the law. How European matters should be dealt with, of course, I will report to the Prime Minister and also to my colleagues. I was also pleased to hear certain representatives of the opposition, who also expressed understanding of the material itself. It is true that, in a number of cases, we also happen to get material maybe one day or the same day that the meeting of the European Affairs Committee is scheduled. Of course, this means for us in Slovenia, which we are relatively new, a new Member State, because we do not have, at least in a collective sense, some have been born to know everything, we do not have experience, and we do not have such knowledge of the files as this in other countries, as they already have experience. I am sure that, with the passing of time, there will also be such experience in this house that we will all get better acquainted with the key issues that are the subject of debate in the European Commission, and that the role of Slovenia, not only the executive or the national assembly, will increase and also deepen that it will essentially be much more robust than it has been so far. Of course, this is very important, because we really all have to prepare ourselves collectively for the responsibilities of the Presidency. I can assure you that serious preparations are being made in this regard. I will also undertake to report as soon as possible to the Committee on European Affairs on all procedures. That's what law requires, and common sense. But I would like to focus now on the question raised, and the demand that my answer be inadequate. As you know, in explanation, after this debate, Mr Milan Swickl, Mr. Master, allowed himself to say that the Minister of Finance could not tell what the contents of the Luxembourg Presidency proposal were, and could not tell what the minimum negotiating position of the Republic of Slovenia was. Of course, we have heard today that this debate is not really related to the fact that there is only one fine excuse to have a conversation about other things. I am beginning to point out that some people are really unable to express their views without going to personal attacks or insults. But the world is as it is. I would then like to focus now on my personal position on this answer and, of course, on the arguments I have heard. I still insist that the response was fully put in place, that for Slovenia, as one of the proposals we had at our disposal, and this is a proposal by the Luxembourg Presidency of 21 April, that it was fully acceptable and that at that time the government's assessment was that the Presidency had not yet made any compromise proposal. It also follows that there was no need to change the positions adopted by the Government on 21 April and subsequently confirmed by the State Affairs Committee on 4 May. The views of the Republic of Slovenia have clearly stated that cohesion policy for Slovenia is a priority and I now quote from a document adopted in this National Assembly, at least on the European Committee: "If there is a reduction in resources on the basis of a Commission proposal, this reduction should be distributed as evenly as possible and all areas of consumption, including agricultural policy, should be exposed to reduction. The funds that are in the current financial perspective outside the EU budget should be reduced in the first place and further reductions should include resources for all European transport networks, the first pillar of the CAP, so that the scope of these funds does not increase as a result of enlargement with Bulgaria and Romania, and external relations, with the exception of the single pre-accession instrument and the instrument of the new neighbourhood policy." End of quote. Well, in our assessment, it is not the opinion of the Member of Mags. Milana Squeakle said the government had no views and that she did not know how to present them in Brussels. It is quite clear that the proposal was not acceptable to Slovenia from the point of view of the positions adopted, and that is why we have also presented such a position to the Presidency and the other Member States. It was explained that Slovenia does not accept a proposal that would only affect cohesion funds, as reflected in the Bureau's further proposals when the remaining spending areas were also subject to the reduction. Of course, in today's debate we have also heard assessments of the positions taken by the government, by this committee, by the Committee on European Affairs, and by giving the government a mandate. Not once has an authorised representative of the Republic of Slovenia spoken on the matter of a new financial perspective without the mandate of this National Assembly, not once. What are the assessments of why, how and who did this, but of course they are completely personal and I would say only political assessments. But I would like to conclude this presentation here today and repeat the words I said at the time in that debate about the answer that was the subject of today's debate. I said the government is aware that we know what our responsibility is. We know that other smart people are also in Slovenia, that we do not have a monopoly on intelligence, but we cannot accept that some still think they have a monopoly and only they can represent Slovenia's interests. I rejected that at the time, and I reject that today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Squeakle, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u88	My procedural decision, which may conclude today's debate, if acceptable, is to propose that the government avoid problems, some of which we have also seen today, proposes to complement the current system of cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in establishing the positions of the Republic of Slovenia. This is explained by the fact that at least the system's complement should go in the direction of possible preliminary discussions of a kind such as we had the opportunity to see when Mr Coprol came to the parliamentary groups on Thursday before presenting this to the European Union Affairs Committee on Saturday morning. It's a procedural conclusion. I know that it is the will of the ruling coalition to make such a decision. But I think we've learned something from all this. Mr. Minister of Finance is not even responsible for this because someone else has negotiated. But that's the way it is. He's the head of the task force, but I can't help it, which is what the government called him. However, the procedural decision would allow the government, in addition to the existing portal, in addition to these formal closed envelopes, which are difficult to open - let me tell you, I got this envelope on Friday because there was a meeting of the Committee on Finance on Friday, and I was only talking about what we were talking about on the Committee on Finance. [[Back-up advertising.]] I wasn't talking about any numbers in the envelope. So that this decision, the President, to avoid problems - the government proposes to complement the current system of cooperation between the DZ and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in shaping the positions of the Republic of Slovenia - is primarily intended to achieve more effective action on the basis of good and bad experience in the last six months, especially the formation of common positions of the Republic of Slovenia. Procedurally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u89	I must remind you that, in accordance with Article 246 on page 128, it is clear that, in the course of or after the discussion on the Government's response, we cannot take any decision, unfortunately. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the 1996 Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of the Intensification of the Sea with Depleted and Other Substances, 1972. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. Please check the cards to see if it burns on the right side of the lamp. Excuse me? I'm sorry, well, you know where he is. I see that the voting devices are working. We're moving to the vote. Here you go, Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u90	I am well aware that the ratifications of conventions and international agreements do not change these ratifications. However, I would like to explain my voice in a slightly different sense. Of course, I will support this ratification, but I would like to say that I will support it mainly for one important reason: that, at last, our country will be able to ensure that in the North Adriatic Sea, that part of this sea belonging to our country will no longer be able to call for our help, unfortunately not always our favorite neighbours, when there is an oil spill or anything else in our territorial waters. This has happened now in Cyprus, and I think it's from the beginning, it's from the acquisition of ballast waters, and it's to the fact that there has been an outflow or discharge of ballast waters and the pollution of the port and then also the resulting bathing site in the Koper municipality, our country has completely cancelled and I hope that the ratification of different conventions is not the only thing we are able to do in this country, in order to protect the environment, environmental security of our sea and our environment in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 53 Members and Members present. 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND ON COOPERATION IN THE PROHIBITION OF NATURAL AND OTHER ACCIDENTS AND THE ELIMINATION OF THEIR AFFAIRS. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. 52 Members and Members are present. There were 52 votes against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - This is on the exploratory proposal for a law on the ratification of the Chestrian Multi-Collective Agreement of 1997 on technical criteria, principles of harmonisation and procedures for the application of the terrestrial digital videodivision. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 53 Members and Members present. There were 52 votes against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Period of the day - This is on the exploratory proposal for a law on the ratification of the 1997 Protocol on the amendment of the International Convention on the Prevention of the Intensification of the Sea of Ships, 1973, as amended by the 1978 Protocol, which applies. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present. There were 55 votes against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted, and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Proposal for a Bill on the Ratification of the Protocol on Sustainable Organic Intensifiers to the 1979 Convention on the Disengagement of Air to Large Ranges Across Borders. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present. There were 51 votes against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm moving to 22. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of the National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania on cooperation in the defence area. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. Votes are running. There are 53 Members and Members present. There were 52 votes against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted, and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illegal trafficking in illicit drugs and previous compounds, terrorism and other serious criminal acts. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. Votes are running. There are 56 Members and Members present. There were 55 votes against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - OFFICIAL RELEVANT WORDS OF LEGISLATION. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the Police Act is confirmed. We're voting. Votes are running. There are 55 Members and Members present. There were 53 votes against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next decision. The official text of the Income Act shall be confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present. There were 55 votes against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the basic school law shall be confirmed. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 3. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the law on the public sector wage system is confirmed. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 50 votes against, none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I hereby conclude this agenda item. Yes, Mr. Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to inform you, and I think it is right to do so today, before I go to the third reading of the RTV Act tomorrow, to make a request to determine whether the terms and conditions for this hearing are met. Article 17, third paragraph of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative provides that no third reading may be initiated until the deadline for collecting signatures in support of the initiative is reached, which means, inter alia, that the State Assembly may not initiate a third hearing until the procedures relating to the given and the initiative have been completed. The 1283 - voter and electorate initiative was put in place. As it was formally prepared in accordance with Article 14 of the Act, and the referendum issue was created in a weak and irregular manner, as President of the National Assembly, you have informed the initiator that you will not call for a deadline to collect the signatures of the electorate and the electorate in support of the request. First of all, I believe that the content of the letter is unclear and does not indicate the legal consequences of your decision as a signatory and president of the National Assembly. What are the opportunities of the initiators based on it? Secondly, I believe that, in similar cases, the President of the National Assembly has always called for the amendment and correction of errors and has set an additional deadline for this. And third. If it is already considered or, if you consider that the President of the National Assembly may make a substantive decision and that his letter is considered to be a decision, then it is necessary to know that the decision cannot take effect without tape. According to my information from the letter I received from you today, to your knowledge as the first-signed, the service has not yet been that any decision always has legal remedies or regular or at least extraordinary, it is said, an action before an administrative court, and that without jurisdiction no decision can give rise to legal effects. The letter is not served, so the initiative is still ongoing and therefore there are no conditions for decision-making at third reading. I hope that so much law is still in force in Slovenia that we will not be so gravely violating the provisions. Second. I hope that if it is not just the right, that it is also a matter of civilization and culture, that it is necessary to give the signatories and the initiators, whatever they are and whatever they have done, at least an opportunity to get the letter and assess what they will do with it. I ask that the answer be prepared to know whether the conditions are met or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Potch. You have announced a procedural proposal to be put forward tomorrow, and you will also receive a response tomorrow. Thank you very much. I hereby conclude or terminate the meeting of the National Assembly. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 10:00.
