ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u1	Good morning, good day to you all! As you can see, we have introduced not academic quarters, but parliamentary two. I hope that today you have all been reading, healthy and full of energy, because we have our basic work ahead of us, that is, deciding on the laws, their changes. A varied day is expected, from asbestos products, Roma communities, the State Council, road safety and could still be listed. I hereby formally begin the continuation of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I have been informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following fellow Member and fellow Members: Mr Anton Anderlič, Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Mrs Darja Lavtišar Bebler, Mr Milan Petek, Mr Alojz Posedel, Mr Jakob Presečnik, Mr Mag. Borut Saiovic from 13.30 a.m. and Mr Matjaž Švagan. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Second draft law on the amendment of the law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of means for the prevention of asbestos production in an insecure manner. The draft law was tabled by a Member of Parliament, Mr Samo Bevk, and a Member, Mrs Breda Pečan. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill for which he has 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In September 1996, the National Assembly adopted the so-called asbestos law, which was introduced into the parliamentary procedure by a group of Members and Members from all parliamentary parties, with first-signed colleague Bredo Pečan. Since the 1970s, asbestos has been at risk in Europe and the world. Scientific evidence has been drawn that all types of asbestos fibers cause asbestososis, lung cancer and lung cancer, and more and more evidence of cancer on other organs. In 1977, the International Cancer Research Organization classified asbestos as the first group of cancerous substances that have been shown to cause cancer in humans. It then took the European Union six years to agree on and unify asbestos or anti-asbeste legislation at this level. The last Directive of 1999 provides that all members of the European Union must harmonise legislation in this field by 2005, including in 2005. With the adoption of the so-called asbestos law, the production and import of asbestos cement products has been banned since 1996 and by the end of 2003 the last restructuring programmes of companies have been completed under this law, for which the state budget has contributed a billion 850 million tolars. Smaller novelties were adopted in 1998 and 2000. In addition to restructuring companies, the main purpose of the law, which expired at the end of last year, was to ensure social security and the necessary resources for workers exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust. The law thus allowed for the acquisition of an insurance period for the retirement and payment of compensation or compensation to patients with asbestos. By December last year, 1437 positive decisions on pensions and 1358 settlements with the sick were issued. To date, 5.6 billion tolars have been used for these purposes. With the basic amendment of the law, we proposed an extension of its validity until 2008 and allocated 4 billion tolls for its implementation. In this respect, let me stress that the potential asbestos has been exposed to as many as 23 000 workers from thirty different companies in Slovenia. First from Salonita Anhovo, then TVT Maribor, Donit Medvode, Slovenian Railways, Termika and so on. The problem with asbestos diseases is that there is a very long, I stress, very long latent period to an outbreak of one of the diseases, ranging from 10 to 40 years. Experts thus predict that the peak of illness in Slovenia will be expected around 2025 or that the disease will occur until 2040 or longer. The government objected to the basic resolution of the law by arguing that it introduces new budgetary resources without substantive changes to the law and adjustments to the current state, and for the second quarter predicts the adoption of a new law. On the Committee on the Economy, we adopted a compromise solution with which Minister Vizjak also agreed and extended the law until the end of 2005. As a result of the expiry of the law, in our view, a legal void has arisen and it will therefore also be questionable to draw on 692 million tolars of funds already provided in the 2005 budget. The extension of the law will further enable the acquisition of the insurance period and the payment of compensation. However, the Government and the National Assembly will buy sufficient time to prepare and adopt a comprehensive legal solution to the asbestos problem. The starting point for the new law was prepared by a special interdepartmental group, which was appointed last year by the previous government. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is in charge of drafting the law. Your Honor! Support for the law that we are considering today has been expressed in the Association of asbestos Patients of Slovenia, the Society of Asbestos, the Chamber of Commerce and the State Council and the Club of Coastal Members. That is why I am calling on Members of the National Assembly to support, and indeed to support, the difficult problems of asbestos patients and all potential patients who will become sick due to exposure to asbestos, this law is also supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you very much to the representative of the motioners, Mr Sam Bevk, for the additional explanation. Before continuing, however, I would like to ask that informal coordination and labelling proceed a little more quietly. This is fair to our colleagues and colleagues. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I therefore ask the representative of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President! Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The Committee on the Economy considered the draft law as the mother labour body 13.1. The members of the committee were informed of a number of written opinions, the opinion of the Government, which did not agree with the adoption of the law, and not for substantive reasons, but assessed that the way was not appropriate or that, given that the budget provided the means to avoid the adoption of this law or its novelty, the opinion of the legislative and legal service, the opinion of the Economic Commission for the Economy and the Commissions for the Economic Affairs of the State Council, both supported the proposal of the law, the opinion of the Economic Chamber, which also supported the proposal of the law, and the opinion of the asbestos trade union and the letters of the asbestos society, both supported the proposal of the law. After thorough and I must say what constructive discussions we have, I hope, with the agreement of the representative of the government, the Minister and his co-workers, and we have adopted a compromise solution to extend the law only in 2005. This removes the doubts or uncertainty expressed by the applicants regarding the legal basis for the purpose of using the 692 million tolls of funds provided for this purpose in the budget for this year. In addition, I should like to say that the Committee has also agreed in its assessment and expectation that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will prepare and submit to the National Assembly as soon as possible a new law on the comprehensive regulation of the so-called asbestos problem. I propose that you accept the complementary proposal that includes this compromise amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the representative of the government, let me say that the procedure is perfectly in accordance with the rules of procedure, that the proposal for a law should be explained by the proposer, then by the mother body and then by the government. I'd like a mag. Mr Andrej Visiak, Minister of Economy, to present the opinion of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! In fact, the new government is very aware of the problems of asbestos patients and of the problems related to this weight, which stems from production and manifests in fact one very long time constant, especially on humans. Therefore, a law prohibiting production was also adopted. According to our data, this production is gone. Although some information is emerging, the issue is now related to asbestos, in fact different from when the law was adopted. The problem concerns, in fact, repair or elimination, mitigating the effects of this production on people. This also calls for a new approach. That is why the government has also adopted a decision that also addresses the issue of social issues, the area of health. That is why the Government has also proposed and adopted a decision to further entrust the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which will be the coordinator of activities in the area of the preparation of new asbestos-related legislation. So far, this has been an economic problem, of course, because it was an economic problem, because it was actually a production, and now there are other problems. And that is also why I explain this, because that is also why the government has actually opposed the law in the proposed form. The law, which was introduced into the procedure of Member Samo Bevk and Breda Pecan, spoke of some additional funds, four billion, for actually implementing non-current solutions in the old law. Of course, the government does not oppose, in fact even supports and wants to solve the asbestos problem, but solve it on the basis of current relations. That is why, of course, it was actually possible to call this a compromise, although I think that the proponents have acted very wisely here and have actually seen that it is better to redefine these measures in order to resolve the asbestos problem in the field of health, in the social field, rather than to add additional resources to the existing law and extend it for several years. In fact, it was decided that the proposed law would only extend the application of the law until this year, thus allowing the full sum already provided for by the law to be exhausted, since the budget already provides for a total of 690 million tolars to solve the asbestos problem in 2005. This is part of the mass of funds already envisaged for the implementation of this law. In fact, the law, as amended as it is now, does not bring anything new to decision-making, except that the funds available this year are also spent in some way this year, which the government intends to do anyway. The government does not oppose these solutions under the terms of the amendments adopted. If the amendments are not adopted and the bill does not include additional financial resources for the implementation of the current law, we think that this is not a good solution and we oppose this solution. The government does not oppose the proposed law, together with the amendments and with the proposed solution, as formulated by the Committee on the Economy of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We continue with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and invite Ambassador Bredo Pecan to present the position of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u8	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Fellow Member and Fellow Members. Of course, in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we support the complementary amendment and amendment of the law on the prohibition of production and transport by asbestos products and the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production in an inequitable manner. There is no need for such a position, and let me just say one thing. By adopting this law, the National Assembly will allow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to propose to the National Assembly, as it had already announced this year, a law that will fully address the very large scope of the problems of the consequences of the production of transport and the use of asbestos-containing products. At the same time, the marriage gap created this year will be filled, as the law provides that compensation for asbestos sickness and the means of obtaining working time will only be provided by 2004. The greatest absurdity is that the 2005 budget provides for these purposes, but without the amendment of Article 7 of the Law it is practically impossible to draw up. Of course, the compromise reached on the Committee of the National Economic and Financial Assembly, which has reduced the period of social hardship for asbestos and unemployed workers and workers who have lost their jobs in restructuring the production of asbestos products to safety from the proposed 4 to 1 year period, makes the Government of RS much more committed to the timely preparation of the previously mentioned comprehensive law. The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats warns both the Government of RS and the leadership of the National Assembly that the problem of asbestos disease is not limited to workers working in and around asbestos production of cement products, but to all types of products that used asbestos as raw materials. Well, not just that. Asbestos appears in various types of built-in materials in construction. The question arises how the Government intends to ensure the safe disposal of such materials when the buildings are demolished, as well as the deliberate removal of materials containing asbestos and clearly pose a serious threat to the health of workers in the facilities where these materials are located. Asbestos disease, which will start to occur in people who will not be able to identify in a history any connection with the production of products containing asbestos or any connection to the process of disposal of asbestos waste materials, will become a particular problem and in such cases will certainly not be able to blame any of the potential employers for the disease. It has long been known that the latent period for individual patients is even 40 years or more. With employers acting so recklessly in the disposal of materials, and in the demolition of asbestos-containing facilities as we have witnessed so far, competent inspection services, both labour and construction services, and despite clear instructions on how to proceed, we can expect an extension of asbestos for much longer than the next 40 years. We expect the RS Government to provide in the proposal for a new law all elements that will ensure safe work for workers, measures to prevent the harmful treatment of employers to workers and the surrounding population and the permanent safe disposal of asbestos-containing waste. It will certainly be necessary to provide for all mechanisms and ensure the social security of all patients due to contact with asbestos, whether it is the origin of the disease at work or the exposure of asbestos to an environment where a citizen or a citizen lives. As it is said, the bill is supported by our parliamentary group, but at the same time again in the interest of all those who have already become sick due to exposure to asbestos, and even more so on behalf of all those who are threatened by asbestos, calls on the government not to forget or delay the obligations of the State of Slovenia to all these people in unknown times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you very much, fellow Member. I invite Mr Jožef Horvat to present his position on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, all present! On 27 September 1996, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a law prohibiting the production and transport of asbestos products and providing funds for the restructuring of asbestos production. This law provides for the cessation of the production of asbestos products, the replacement of asbestos production with incorruptible and ensures social security and the necessary resources for workers who have been exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos until production is discontinued. In the final text, the law extended and generalised the concept of abolition and the transition to non-terrestrial production from Salonit Anhovo to the whole territory of Slovenia, but at the same time created the inequality and privilege of workers according to the place, business and time in which workers were exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust. Therefore, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia amended the law in April 1998 and supplemented it by deleting the time frame until the production was discontinued and adding the category of workers to the health and social security of the population as well. The financing of the acquisition of the insurance period and the payment of compensation was extended up to and including 2004. It was not taken into account, however, that the latent period of asbestos-induced occupational diseases ranged from 15 to 25 years and to 40 years when the person came into contact with asbestos dust. The very future will cruelly remind us that the care for a healthy working environment has been all too modest. The market use of asbestos, which began a hundred years ago, has resulted in the death of millions of earthlings to date as a result of asbestos exposure. Scientists estimate, however, that in the next 30 years, at least half a million people in Britain, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Switzerland will die as a result of the disease caused by asbestos exposure, i.e. in countries where asbestos has nevertheless been controlled. These are forecasts of an international asbestos-free secretariat based in London. Such black predictions of the consequences of asbestos may seem exaggerated, but not to those who have already faced them. About 23,000 workers from 30 companies were exposed to asbestos in Slovenia. The largest among them are Salonit Anhovo, TVT Maribor, Donit Medvode, Termika and Slovenian Railways. Experts predict that in Slovenia the peak of the disease is expected around 2025. However, the disease will occur until 2040 and also later. In the New Slovenia Group, we note that the law banning the production and transport of asbestos products and the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production to an inequity has achieved its purpose. Now is the time for serious reflection, and a decision to amend the existing law or, in our opinion, even better, to draft a new law regulating duties and rights between the sick, producers, employers and the country. We are confident that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will prepare a proposal for a new law by 2nd quarter 2005 at the latest, which will fully address the asbestos problem in Slovenia. The guidelines prepared by the Interdepartmental Working Group represent, in our view, one of the good foundations of the new law. At the meeting of the Committee of the National Economic Assembly, the representatives of the New Slovenia Group supported the amendment of the Committee, which amends Article 4(7) by extending the timeframe until 2005, which is provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year by 692 million tolars. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that such a solution is optimal at a given time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you very much, fellow Member Horvat. I invite Mr Kristian Janc to put forward the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group on the proposal for a law amending the law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of production into asbestos is as follows. On the basis of the debate on the Committee on the Economy, where we unanimously adopted the amendment to the amendment of the United List, which provides that, in Article 1, the word "in" shall be replaced by a comma, and for the year 2004, the text and the year 2005 shall be added, and the rest shall be deleted, we propose to the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt the proposed supplementary proposal of the law. The adoption of the proposal will enable the implementation of the law already in 2005. This requires the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare as soon as possible a comprehensive solution in the field of production and transport of asbestos products, which with their negative effects affect the wider life and health of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and comprehensively saves it for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. It is necessary to ensure that asbestos production is discontinued or replaced by inequity and, on the other hand, to companies producing asbestos products, to provide funds from the State budget for the payment of the contribution and the collection of the insurance period and the payment of compensation for occupational diseases in the years 2005-2008. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a law amending the law on the prohibition and production of asbestos products and on the provision of means to restructure production into a non-terrestrial situation. Health is the highest value, so we must also be aware of it in the national assembly and in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Janz. I invite Mr Saš Pečet to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u14	Your Honors are here! The substance of conservation or restriction and the ban on asbestos products was dealt with several times by the National Assembly in its previous and previous mandate. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, the basic objective of the proposed law, which is ahead of us, is to positively pursue the consequences and try to remedy the consequences of asbestos. The draft law sets out the objectives, for the first time, the definitive termination of asbestos production, the replacement of non-acquisitioned production, the purchase of insurance years, the payment of compensation for occupational disease and so on. At least for the Slovenian National Party Group, the so-called sixth following objective is particularly important, in the case of workers identified as having a occupational disease resulting from the use of asbestos, they are further provided with funds for the acquisition of pension years for recognised compensation for occupational diseases. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, there is one substantive deficit, the first moment, this is the moment of identification of the disease, namely asbestososis. If the proponents and once the government of the Republic of Slovenia have only touched on the second moment of remedying or mitigating the consequences defined in the law, then at least after the assessment of the SNS Group, there is a substantive deficit, i.e. that chapter on how the disease is determined, especially if we take into account the behaviour of the proposer of the 15-25-year-old latent age of this occupational disease. According to the Slovenian National Parties' assessment, it is in this area, i.e. protection at work, as umbrella legislation, that it should be cut down into that matter that was once addressed by the so-called treating physician, and today it is being treated by authorised health professionals. So it's just finding out about the disease. According to our assessment, it is to talk about asbestososis as a working disease if it does not have an approach to identifying a potential patient, but it is exclusively within the competence of referral to disease detection is modest. Therefore, we say that this law, namely the Act amending the law banning the production and transport of asbestos products, should also monitor the material of the umbrella law, i.e. protection at work, only the area of disease detection. The fact is that a period of 15 to 25 years and the elimination of consequences applies only to those who may have been protected at work or who have had the opportunity to learn from the protection at work that they have the disease mentioned. Therefore, the wider issue itself must be seen much wider than the local one. The fact is, for asbestos, I can, of course, sincerely hope that as few patients as possible have become ill throughout Slovenia, than those involved in volcanicism, with the automotive industry and all other industries, which, of course, were not mentioned in this law or in the previous law. According to the national party's assessment, we will support the proposal for a law, as well as the base of the starting point which has been the outbreaks or exposed in the so-called parent labour body. However, we would like to see work protection legislation simplifying or simplifying the identification of the disease. The process itself you probably know is very expensive and without the so-called recommendation of today's authorised medical profession, a doctor who identifies occupational diseases is, of course, impossible to reach. Until at least after our assessment, the National Assembly touches only the matter under number two, namely the elimination and mitigation of the consequences, but will not deal with the content, i.e. the basic objective, the identification of the disease, so long in this area we will not be able to say that we have arranged by law that at least one area of life in our society will be made easier. As I said, we will support the draft law in the national party, and we will equally support those basic starting points that have been given within the framework of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thanks, buddy. I invite the representative of the Democratic Party of pensioners of Slovenia, Mr. Ambassador Mag. Vasjo Klavoro.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u16	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members. A lot has been said to everyone before me, from fellow Members, so I have little left to supplement. However, I would just like to say a few words about what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wrote when it decided not to support the first proposal of the law. That asbestos and asbestos disease, that's the problem, that's what America is. Yesterday's article in the American newspaper entitled "The Moment of Truth" says that America also has a problem with resources that could alleviate the consequences of asbestososis. And with great, great resources. In America, it is projected that some 100,000 people will die as a result of asbestososis in the coming years. All the other numbers concerning Europe, all the European countries where asbestos production has been controlled, have already been told. Here, too, but I would like to point out once again that professional medical issue, which was also referred to by Member Peca, we predict that only in 2020 will there be a large number of diseases up to 2025, even by 2040. The first thing I would like to touch is that the group of beneficiaries of compensation are all potential exhibitors, as well as residents. Don't forget that, like the residents. I am a Member of the Court. I also speak on behalf of those people who live in Goriška. [[Goriška does not have a Member]] And over the years I have observed the land around the company of Salonite in Anhove. That is why I think we need to be careful: people too. As a doctor, I was also present at the hospital several times in tragic cases as a result of contact with asbestos. Another issue that has already been discussed is how to verify the disease. See, under the third indent, it says "the appointment of qualified persons, forensic experts in the field of asbestos diseases". I don't know if I could agree with that. We already have an interdisciplinary review committee to identify and confirm whether this is a professional disease, in which case asbestososis. We cannot help but believe in these professional people, in my case, colleagues who are experts, experts and specialists in lung disease. If we're talking about forensics, then it's something else - forensic experts come forward when the case comes before a court. And I don't want forensic experts to go against the opinions of medical experts. I believe that the medical experts we have both within the clinical centre and within the hospital in Golnik must be trusted. However, I agree that, with all that we are talking about now, about means, about laws and so on, this is one of the priorities of detection. But to be honest, that's what it is. And the third thing I'd like to say. The mission group, our small parliamentary group, which has 50% of doctors, will be very careful how asbestos issues or the consequences of asbestos use will be addressed in the future. That is why we support the proposed law and at the same time ask the government or the ministries of the field to draw up as soon as possible a new proposal for a law that will take into account everything we have said here today. And our parliamentary group, once again, with 50% of the doctors in it, will be watching to see this happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Clavors. I invite Mr Rudolf Petan, representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary and the well-respected others! This is an area of official policy, the real state, ostensibly eluded, especially in the area of protection of people and workers, here I also mean compensation for workers who have been in contact with asbestos, in the production of which is asbestos. If that were not the case, then it could not have happened that even the first law seriously addressing compensation for the sick would have proposed compensation for the sick as an opposition member of our fellow Member, Mr Ivo Hvalica. Of course, to a limited extent, it was only about production in Anhove. This has also officially recognised the fact that asbestos is very harmful to human health and that the decision to build a giant based on asbestos raw materials is quite questionable, but everything can be rectified. And even worse, insistence on such production. After the quantity of asbestos products produced per capita, we were probably one of the leaders in Europe. On the other hand, the State did not want to recognise or refuse to acknowledge the threat to human health due to the production of which the component is asbestos. The law, which granted compensation to the affected people, was also adopted, as I have already mentioned, at the suggestion of our fellow Member, when the population working in Anhove with asbestos was already well diluted. I'm afraid history repeats itself. Despite the fact that the previous Government was well aware that the law amending the law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production at the end of last year, it did not do anything to solve the problem or very little to solve the problem. The proposal for a law tabled by a group of Members in November 2003 was opposed by the then government. Therefore, of course, the parliamentary process of adoption was not possible. However, the government has not prepared its solution, despite the fact that almost 700 000 tonnes of asbestos have been imported in Slovenia, which was mostly used for cover and for water pipes that are still in use today. Asbestos is estimated to have been exposed to more than 20,000 workers in different forms, most certainly in Salonite Anhovo, and probably also in the most critical form. Despite a law that clearly defined financial obligations, the National Economic Assembly Committee of January 2003 found that the budget for 2003 and 2004 earmarked SIT 1.2 billion less than was provided for by law, and proposed to the then government that it would provide the missing funds with a budget rebalancing, as this law needed to be implemented in its entirety. In view of the total disregard of the previous government for the above-mentioned issue and the complete passivity due to the expiry of Law 31.12.2004, our fellow Member submitted a proposal for a law identical to the 2003 law which was rejected by the current government at the end of last year. Given the irregularity of the situation in this area, it is understandable that it is necessary to adopt a law which will, of course, regulate the machete area in the long term and also in a comprehensive manner. This concept certainly includes the decision of the current government, 15.1.2005, which commissioned the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment and Space to prepare a comprehensive review of the implementation of the law so far and to prepare a proposal for a new law to regulate this area in the long term and in a systematic manner by the second quarter of 2005. Since almost 700 million sitts are planned and provided for this year's budget, this bill is unnecessary and unnecessary, but we will support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which was put to the committee later, because we believe that if one thing is written twice, it cannot harm and that we would not want doubts to arise in these patients because they are already under a lot of stress, so we will open this proposal in the SDS. This proposal shows that the country has so far had a stepfather's attitude towards this problem. Before the vote, we also met with representatives of asbestos patients in the parliamentary group. Once again, we will support this proposal in the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you, Comrade Petan. As a last resort to this point, I invite Mr Matey Lahovnik to present the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members. Regardless of the speaker's words, I regret to conclude that the causes of the asbestos problem do not fall within the mandate of the previous government, but are much deeper. We are all concerned that the causes, consequences of asbestos production and the use of asbestos products not only in a variety of different fields, in the field of firefighting technology, if you want, and in a variety of other areas, are extremely pressing issues, and this use has been very widespread. The consequences of this production and use of asbestos products also do not fall within the mandate of this government, which has now assumed its mandate. I'm afraid, and we all know that these consequences will be longer-term. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware of the consequences of the past use of asbestos products and the production of asbestos products, which, as I have already said, not just a few years ago, but a few decades ago, so we support the proposed law. It should be pointed out that in the past the state budget has already provided 4 billion 350 million tolars of funds, of which 692 million tolars remain unspent, and therefore the amendment of the Economic Committee is very reasonable to allow all those injured who did not make appropriate demands in 2005 for them to do so last year. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will also support the comprehensive resolution of this issue precisely because what I have said is not the problem of the year, two if you want three back, but the causes are significantly longer, precisely because the consequences will be long-term. We agree that the issue needs to be addressed and, of course, we do not oppose the transfer of this issue to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will therefore be proposing this law, which at least partially provides compensation for patients, but we are aware that this means still minimal and cannot in any way outweigh the damaged health and the reduction of the years of life, although we will, of course, support this bill because, as I said, at least minimally compensates the pain of those who have participated in the production of asbestos products in such or other ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Dr. Lakhovnik. This concludes with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law tomorrow in the framework of the vote. That's why I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the state world. The draft law was submitted to the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In this regard, our home body, i.e. the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, has proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I first give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Mag. Adolf Zupan for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u22	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Members! A nice day on behalf of the State Council and thank you very much for giving us a few brief points. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia regulates the composition and powers of the State Council, and provides, among other things, that the State Council has rules of procedure. The law, first, was adopted in 1992. The law did not fully regulate everything necessary, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted on 28.4.1994 a decision to regulate the budget of the Republic of Slovenia until the adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council. As a result of the incomplete arrangements, in May 1994, the Council of State passed a law on amendments and additions, but was not addressed by the National Assembly. In that law, just to remind me, some things were arranged to cost more, and it was also envisaged that some state councillors would be professional. Then it happened in 2003, when the Court of Auditors reviewed the operation of the Council of State and warned that these things were not regulated, this was in February and already in June 2003 the Council tabled a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the law on the State Council in the text you have before you. The subject matter was also dealt with by the Constitutional Court. Among other things, she said that these things could not be arranged in the rules of procedure but in the law. All these years since 1994, first of all since 1992 and later since the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994, this has been regulated by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, in the substantive view of the wage item, in the substantive view of the power of the law. A particular problem is the problem of voluntary temporary or professional work. All of these three categories, no doubt you will agree, stem from the public interest. The Council of State was established by the Constitution for the purpose of pursuing public interest. The assessment was in the preparation of this law that, with the permanent and continuous work of the President of the Council of State, it was best to pursue the professional performance of this function, but we have heard in the past days that this is one of the practically very controversial solutions. It was also initially arranged that the payment was made in the form of compensation for lost earnings, but this caused a number of problems because the loss of profits for individual state councilors could be very different. Only in cases where someone who is retired can it be one thing, the other is that if someone is still doing active work more difficult, it could cost several times more and, of course, indirectly would cost more to the State, so this has been arranged by state councilors in their Rules of Procedure to arrange their work or to pay for their work in the form of a meeting which could have been up to one-third at most. Similar solutions are also known in the early years of our emerging countries, when this was similar in the three - house congregation. And only the last round of honorary office, professionalism. An honorary function that would become a professional could still defend its parental interests, from which the state councillor is elected. Money doesn't play a role here. And if we were to defend, I would end up, because of the passing of time, as Mr. Cwickl of the LDS does, it would be very difficult for his defense to pass on to the community because, in fact, this would mean that citizens should pay to the municipalities. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u23	Time's up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u24	most of the necessary resources from the state level. [[...]] Thank you very much. Dear Councilors, I suggest, however, that we reconsider the necessity of this regulation in law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Councilman, Master Zupan. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u26	Hello. Mr Vice-President, colleagues and fellow Members and all the others who accompany this meeting. The New Slovenia Group has also reviewed the proposed amendments carefully, taking into account additional explanations from the representatives of the State Council. However, in the parliamentary group, we do not support the changes to the existing law in the way proposed by the proposer. Therefore, we do not see in the parliamentary group any reason for the professional performance of the presidency of the Council of State to be enshrined in the Law on the State Council. In view of the constitutional status of the regulation of the State Council, it is therefore a representative body of social, local, professional, economic interests, and probably it would not be in their interest that this would be some existential link to the state budget with the form of wages, but that it is only the President of the State Council. We have also been asked here in case of additional explanations concerning the large scope of the work that the President has. If we open up the post of President, there is also a question of the Vice-President to whom the President can transfer a certain amount of work. The state councillors, i.e. the composition at the time, decided to raise the office of the President of the Council from among themselves. So they made their own decision in the present system of things, and who knows, perhaps the following composition of the saints will make a different decision. We leave it to them. The New Slovenia Group is based on its decision from the constitutional points of view and on the very purpose of the Council of State and, in particular, on the assumption that the function of the Council is honorable. Let me point out here that we don't think this function is free. But already in existing legislation, both for the President and for the saints, compensation for the loss of profits is available. With regard to the status of Head of the Service of the State Council and the proposal to obtain the status of an official, it is also another tendency to align the state council with the national council, which cannot be lumped out at the time of the current regulation. As already mentioned, the Council of State is primarily concerned with the representative body of specific interests, while the national assembly is a general representative body. Furthermore, the National Assembly takes final decisions while the Council of State has powers - we can also ask here whether these are high enough or not - only influence the work and decisions of the National Assembly. Accordingly, different arrangements for the status of both the President, the saints and other professional colleagues in the State Council are likely to be justified. Under the State Council Act, the secretary runs the service of the State Council and in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that this is part of the public service law system and can be treated in the same way as other civil servants. In particular, this special proposed treatment does not seem to make sense to us during the period when the new pay system is being implemented. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we will vote in favour of the proposed decision that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you very much, colleague Dolinar. I would like to take the floor to invite Mr Franz Kangler, representative of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the Constitution ranks the Council of State immediately after the National Assembly and is in fact the Council of State before the President of the Republic. Therefore, through our political activity in the Group of Members, we will strive not to devalue the work of the Council of State, so the work of the President of the Council of State. From the point of view of the state functions they perform in the public authorities, we think of the Council of State, it is a body which acts under the legislative function, as it can propose laws, give opinions on all matters under its competence, veto, call for a legislative referendum and also require parliamentary investigation. It is also the duty of the Council of State to deliver an opinion on individual matters. This is a major political issue that has arisen at a given time, and we in the parliamentary group believe that the law adopted in 1992 [[State Council Act]] , insufficient to address certain issues related primarily to the financing of the State Council and the professional function of the President of the Council and the Secretary of State. We are aware that this is an important body, as a state council. As I have said in the introduction, the quantity and nature of the tasks and powers of the President of the Council of State, which are regulated by the Rules of Procedure, show the elements of the need for this function to be carried out professionally. We also accept the view of the Court of Auditors that these things need to be settled, although we are in some way disappointed that this issue and this topic regarding the financing of the President's Council of State are being resolved after 12 years, following the adoption of the State Council Act, which was adopted in 1992. This problem should have been resolved in the previous two or three mandates. However, it is indeed a matter of representatives of different stakeholders, both social, economic, professional and local interests, which combine their opinions, their thoughts in the state world. And in fact, the state councilman must be compensated for his work, for his costs of work in the state world. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that in the near future the status of both the state council and the state councillors, members of the Council will have to be regulated, so we will work together to find a systemic solution and to regulate this position of both state councillors and the President himself, in accordance with all the rules and acts that should be regulated by both individual bodies of the State Council in order to do so. It is also the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group that both individual councillors and the Secretary-General of the Council should be regulated in the system of public wages, not in the legislation or in the regulations adopted by the Council of State. Finally, let me stress that the Slovenian People's Party's Group will not support the law that we have before us on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Kangler. Allow me to present a brief point in the minutes of the President of the National Assembly's working talks with the heads of the parliamentary groups on the preparation and the course of the meetings of the National Assembly. In point 2, we agreed that, as a rule, representatives of the parliamentary groups also appear behind the speaker stage when they represent the position of the parliamentary group. I know the word "rightly" is loose, but second time, my colleague Kangler would still invite him to approach the speaker's stage. And by the way, there is also a 13th point in this package, which says that there is no limit to conversation on mobile phones in the plenary room. I think it's possible to interpret the word "talk" by also referring to ringing. Thank you very much. I would like to invite my colleague, Saš Pečet, to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u30	Respectable present. Before the adoption of the law on the State Council, it is our assessment that we need to answer what is the State Council. In our firm conviction, that is to say, according to the Slovenian National Party, the Council of State is a set of narrow partial interests, which unfortunately the RS Constitution has allowed them to play the dual role of passing or co-establishing the legislative process. Therefore, in the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we have tried several times to achieve, at the very least, through constitutional changes or legislative changes, that the State Council loses its role or, in other words, that there would no longer be a State Council in our legal order. If we look at the composition of the Council of State, i.e. individual interests that have the privilege of participating in the legislative process, or if we look at the composition of the working bodies of the Council of State, we see only that the representatives of individual narrow interests are involved in the legislative process. Let me tell you that the Economic Chamber Act is impossible to reconcile with any argument through the State Council when only the representatives of the various chambers sit in its working body dealing with the said matter. And according to the National Party's assessment, of course, this is not a place in Slovenian parliamentary or, more specifically, in Slovenian democracy. The state world is according to our assessment of amphibians. He is one of those who, as far as his affairs are concerned, can get involved in the legislative process or, of course, not. However, to see how active the State Council is in the whole of its third term, it is reasonable to say that the Council of State has provided the National Assembly with only four legislative initiatives during this third period. This is less than I believe that in the previous mandate, any of the political parties - and a hand on the heart - cannot be compared with the institution of the political party or the institution of the State Council. The same institute or institution of the Council of State gave an opinion, 32 times. They give their opinion 32 times as a rule at a regular session when we are dealing with 32 laws rather than the entire mandate. In addition, the Council of State submitted a single request for the initiation of a procedure to assess the constitutionality and legality of the individual act for the entire duration of its term of office. So, the statistics that I have just read or strung all of you, it is clear that the Council of State touches exclusively those materials that touch individual members of the State Council or individual lobbyists behind this State Council as an institution or better said in a cover called the State Council. What do they want to do with the new law they're sending us to deal with? Only one, that is to say, to supplement the law in that chapter, which provides that the President of the Council of State shall exercise his professional function. Secondly, the result of this is, of course, that the President of the Council of State would have the right to pay. Thirdly, the Secretary of the Council of State would have the same rights as the President of the Council of State. Why this has come - due to a warning from the legislature or the opinion of the legislature that the Court of Auditors in its audit in the course of the operation of the Council of State has warned and found that the payment of salaries to the President of the Council of State does not have an adequate legal basis. So this law, today's additions to the State Council Act, is solely the result of the salary of the President of the Council of State and the Secretary-General of the Council of State. However, the Court of Auditors has come to this conclusion by means of a new amendment, which, finally in writing, is offered to us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that the Law on the Public Sector Wage System provides that the provisions of all other laws and regulations governing wages and similar conditions in public administration shall cease to apply as of the date of implementation of this Act. So we have a very clean and simple situation. The National Assembly has adopted a law on the system of public sector wages and, on the basis of this law, the operation of payments within the framework of the State Council is not in accordance with this law. But we cannot play Slovenian legislation in this way and bring or give the standard of legitimacy to this type of work through the law on the state world. And to conclude. The Slovenian national party will also insist in this mandate that the Council of State be excluded from the legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thanks, buddy. To the floor, I invite Mr Sreč Hvauc to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representative of the Council of State. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the state council law proposed by the state council. The key innovations already mentioned are the professionalisation of the President or the post of President of the Council of State and the establishment of the post of Secretary-General. We will not support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I will list some of the most important or important reasons for this decision. The first, already mentioned, is that the Act on the State Council in Article 62 provides that the performance of the function and of a member of the State Council shall be an honorable function. This means that the exercise of such a role has great ethical and moral value, as well as some reputation and validity and respect in society. At the same time, of course, this means that the exercise of such a function is not linked to payment. If the money, as the representative of the proposer mentioned, is not important for the performance of such a function, then, of course, even in my opinion, it is not important for us to discuss the payment of this function. I agree with the fact that the President of the Council of State has greater responsibilities than other members, saints, his colleagues, but is first and foremost a member of that body and therefore cannot be dealt with under some of the different basic criteria that apply to his colleagues. The next, which would mean such an approach, is to legislate salaries for individual officials or, in this case, for the President and for the Secretary-General, which would, of course, mean some non-systemic partial wage regulation in just one small area. This is, of course, completely contrary to the objective we have to systematically regulate wages throughout the public sector. Such partial wage management has led in the past to the situation in this area as we have it. Last but not least, the proposals state that the proposed changes will have no financial implications. On the contrary, we believe that the professionalisation of certain cities in the state world in relation to all its consequences would also increase the use of the budgetary resources necessary for the functioning of the State Council. This is just a few of the main reasons why our Group of Members will not support this proposal. However, since the matter has been connected with the Council of State, as has already been mentioned here today, or has been the subject of discussion and debate for several years now, in fact since the beginning of the adoption of this law, we will advocate that the issue of the role of action and, of course, the financing of the Council of State be thoroughly lit up from all possible perspectives and that some systemic and long-term solutions are sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you, colleague Hwauc. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The LDS Club does not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council, because, like most members of the Group, it considers that the nature of the functions of the State Council, which is time-consuming, and the nature of the State Council itself does not provide a legal basis for the full professionalization of the function of the President of the State Council, since such full professionalization would result in the loss of the legal basis for the election to the State Council and also the basic purpose of the function, i.e. the representation of certain interests arising from the professional commitment of the State Council to a particular interest group. Since the members of the Council of State are representatives and holders of social economic, professional and local interests, and arising from the already mentioned nature of the Council of State as the authority "sui generis", which transfers these interests to the nature and law of decision-making, there is no support for full professionalisation on the basis of membership in the State Council. However, the President of the Council of State may not, in terms of material compensations, be treated according to different criteria as is the case with other members of the Council of State, since the President is in particular a member and a representative of the holders of certain interests. The LDS Club would, of course, support solutions which provide for compensation for the management of the post to be provided for as President of the Council of State, as it must be recognised, however, that the President of the Council of State has more work, certain protocol and other powers, which are more difficult and, of course, require some remuneration. However, any such form of payment must maintain the function of previous employment or contact with the interest group represented by it, in principle, if I point out that he has been employed where he has been employed, and of course, he may, of course, receive a certain amount of compensation for the work he is doing. The LDS Club understands, of course, the saints who oppose their payment, if I say so simply, being arranged in a way that replaces lost earnings. They may even be right in practical implementation, perhaps the arrangement with the meetings, we believe, would be more simple, equally fair in some way and even more transparent, but they must be, if they decided to make such a decision, the criteria for a meeting laid down in the law itself and cannot be the only provision that the joint meeting should not amount to more than one third of the so-called President's salary. In short, it is time for this problem to be resolved so that representatives of all parliamentary groups, parties with the Council of State can sit together and find solutions that will enable members of the Council of State and the President to work normally, to make a fair profit or to pay for their work, which is what we must recognise - and to settle this matter. Until then, in the LDS Group, it would be suggested that the Councilors strictly comply with the current and current legal provisions. The second question, which of course is not the issue of this law, is what and what the function of the State Council in Slovenia should perform. I must say that years ago, when the constitution was adopted, I opposed this neo-corporative institution. I thought that the function of the State Council could be different, better, more effective, but the solution is the way it is, and we are talking about such a solution today. And with regard to this law, there is probably no point in discussing it more than that. If I can sum it up. The LDS Group will vote in favour that the law as it is is is not suitable for consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Gantar. Mr Miran Potrč will be the last to present his position on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you. Due to a number of concerns about payments of salaries and compensation for the work of state councilors, the Council of State has once again decided to propose amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council by providing for the President and Secretary-General of the Council of State to carry out their duties professionally and consequently the right to pay. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats does not support this proposal. The questions about the professional performance of a member of the Council of State, as well as their President and Secretary-General, are almost as old as the institution of the Council of State itself. And there have always been serious, professional and political concerns about such a solution. That's what the state council should know. Unfortunately, no one has taken them into final decisions: neither the drafters of the 1993 constitutional dispute, nor the Constitutional Court, which rejected their proposal solely for formal reasons and did not decide on the content, nor the Government, which subsequently provided for their payment from the State budget. However, in 1994 and 1995, the National Assembly, as mentioned above, once rejected a similar law as it is today. Since then, professionalization has been attempted and the National Assembly has rejected such a law. It is true, however, that he did not prepare a comprehensive solution to the situation of the State Council at that time, but he did not propose that the state world for itself in any other way than professionalisation alone. The reasons for this were probably different views of the policy and the parliamentary groups on the position and role of the State Council, and perhaps so today. At the end of last year, the Court of Auditors re-examined the illegality for professional performance in its review. And the Council of State, I stress, rather than following all the professionalisation concerns that have been raised so far, has once again decided to demand professionalisation in the performance of its President and Secretary-General. And this is in the face of many other problems that have arisen with regard to the work of the State Council - including disputed immunity, including travel, including the extent of work that can be critically assessed - all of this has also led to politicisation, but the public world has, in my opinion, blamed much for this situation. He can therefore be justifiably affected with regard to his assessment and assessment of his role in the public, but more or less he has seen only one solution so far - professionalization - instead of looking for others. It is our duty to say that professionalism is not possible and justified in all its professional opinions and even in terms of the Constitution, and we also consider it to be in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. At the same time, I would like to say that we are not sure that the rejection of the law, as proposed at today's meeting - which we assume - will be a solution to the problem: neither for the state council nor for the system of financing the state council. With regard to the funding system, it would finally be right for the State Council itself or at the initiative of the Government to be able to also sit seriously by the Constitutional Commission or political parties and see what to do with the funding system. Because such a system as is today will continue to be unconstitutional and illegal, and if there is no solution, we do not know how to proceed. And secondly, it would probably be right that, after the same procedure, the State Council, the government, political parties, including perhaps the Constitutional Commission, see whether or not any serious professional and political assessment of the situation, activities, future orientations in the constitutional system of the State Council is necessary, because I am sure that no "ad hoc" solutions will contribute to this. We all know, however, that the situation is such that the situation should be seriously assessed and seen whether changes are reasonable and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you, Comrade Potsch. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, i.e. half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda, or at the latest at the time set for the vote. I'm breaking this agenda. And I'm on four. Agenda items - Second Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. I would like to draw attention to the terrible information I read in the newspaper today. To this day, 13 lives have been claimed by our roads. And the fact is that we will not significantly improve this data or data at the end of the year by any law, but, rather, by a different behavior, by overestimating values. The draft law was submitted by the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. With regard to this law or proposal, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law should not be considered further. On the basis of Rule 134(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Ivan Bukovec, to further explain the bill. Please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u38	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Presents. This is the second time you've been in the National Assembly. Last year we wanted to veto some of the wishes and demands of local communities from the south of the country to make our roads order. And as the chairman found out, because this order is gone, the victims are bigger every day. It is also our proposal to amend Articles 1 and 2 in order to allow for the possibility of those vehicles which are technically "impaired", unregistered, disruptive and other life-threatening to get out of the road. This law, so this change in the marriage two points, has actually come from the needs of people, from small problems that we have mainly in the south of the country, and elsewhere. The law does not allow a police officer to permanently return to this area to take the vehicle and to take it properly or to take it away or to destroy it. A police officer has no or real possibility of getting these vehicles off the road. The fact is, people drive with 8, 10, 12-year-old vehicles. Today, there must be more than 30 of these vehicles on the road where I'm home. Unfortunately, they have withdrawn from the main roads and are now driving through villages, after small hamlets and, of course, endangering more people on narrow roads. With this law, we want to give the police the opportunity to actually have the opportunity to withdraw these cars. The Act on Offences, which was also passed last year, does not give this possibility. He gives the police the opportunity to stop this vehicle and, of course, that returnee waits for the policeman to leave, and then he continues quietly. The so-called returnees are the ones in prison - like going on a trip. However, many youths who are unpunished cannot be punished. We've got a few people driving around 10, 12, 14 years old. If I say that two minors, 13, 14 years of age, have committed 40 robberies in one month - and nothing can be done to them. I just want to say that we're in trouble that's insurmountable for us. This marriage could be of some help to at least a little more order in this regard. All we want is a legal opportunity not to endanger others, to actually those vehicles that don't belong on the road to retreat. There is also a possibility that vehicles can be "taken" within a month, within three weeks, by means of a sub-legal act, so that any owner can be allowed to register this vehicle, i.e. into the transport state. I therefore plead with you as a legislative body to accept these two articles, because otherwise it will be as it was: the joy of driving forward, of course, the policeman is now the only one who has the "fridge" to see if he can stop someone because he is driving too fast, but there is no other option. We just want to give you a chance to make more order in this field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Councilman Bukovac. The following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and I politely invite my colleague Kangler to come to the speaker stage and present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you, for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware of the problem and we also understand the proposaler and also the representative of the proponents on the issue of unregistered passenger cars involved in traffic in areas where they meet as a proposaler himself said the problem. The fact is, however, that the conduct of the article is contradictory, contrary to certain other laws, both to the law on offences, since a road traffic policeman cannot be caught because the measure under the Road Traffic Safety Act does not have the power provided for in Article 123, paragraph 3, of the Act on Offences. If we only go into the dictates of the article proposed by the applicant: "A vehicle seized by a policeman on the basis of the fourth indent of the first subparagraph of Article 229 must be technically trained and registered within 30 days." If a police officer seizes a vehicle and stores it in a suitable location, that it is inaccessible for the owner to take it away, it is also difficult for the owner to train and register it in 30 days. We don't understand how it could be possible for police officers to seize, and then you ask the owner to have this vehicle, which is no longer in his power, but is currently in police custody, in 30 days. Further diction: "...insofar as he does not do so, he becomes the vehicle of state ownership." I think it is quite clear that we cannot accept this and that we cannot support the amendment of the law, but we are aware and will also work in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to try to find a favourable solution within future changes to the road safety law, so that the police can act more effectively, faster and legally. We also believe that until now, Slovenian police officers have the authority to do everything they can to prevent further violations of the offence. If a police officer who does not have a registered vehicle and does not meet the condition prohibits further driving and if this driver continues driving, the officer may, in accordance with all the powers, also act swiftly, effectively and legally to prevent this. For the reasons given above, in particular the content of Article 1, which is contradictory to certain other acts, cannot be supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Group as proposed by the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac is next on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The Road Safety Act, which entered into force recently, 1.1.2005, is considered by the Slovenian National Party to be a bad one, it was essentially a kind of powerless, non-professional attempt by the former Minister, Mr Bohinca, to address the catastrophic road safety situation. At that time, in our belief, the Minister decided in desperation and changed his conviction from January 2004, when he said that the level of the penalties at stake did not affect the number of offences, he forgot and then in June this law on road safety, which is now in force. The law itself called for amendments and possible other complications in connection with this law when it was adopted, which we could also read in the means of public information not long ago, so that certain complaints about this law would appear and we had already warned about this in the Slovenian National Party. The amendment proposed by the State Council fills a legal void in at least one area. We therefore welcome this change in the Slovenian National Party and will also support it. We regret that the State Council for Law Change has not acted in an integrated manner, as we believe it would be necessary to amend the law, but, as I have already said, at least one area fills this legal void in the area of the seizure of unregistered vehicles. If I touch on the property sphere, which was also discussed on the Internal Policy Committee. It was pointed out that it was a major intervention in the individual’s personal sphere if an unregistered passenger vehicle was taken away from him. Today, the prescribed fine for such violators is SIT 20,000. What if this offender runs into someone? In this case, the insurance company will not cover the costs, the person who has suffered an accident and his personal car has been destroyed by such an offender, but waits for a long-term procedure before the competent authorities so that he can not blame his car without having to repair it. According to our belief, as I have already said, the change in marriage is welcome. We will vote against the government's decision. Once again, allow me to regret, on our part, that the State Council has not undertaken a comprehensive amendment to the Road Safety Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Comrade Zagorac. I invite Mr Mitjo Ljubeljska to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u44	Respectable assembly and respected ones are present! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Safety Act for several reasons. That is: since the removal of a vehicle constitutes an intervention in constitutionally secured property; because the bill is contrary to the principle of proportionality; which is based on a decision of the Constitutional Court, because the bill is non-life-like, non-systematic and, above all, repressive; because the bill is not based on an analysis of the situation in practice, but rather on a bureaucratic provision of a measure which is not aware of the consequences; because the adoption of the proposed law would result in a financial burden on the State budget; because the proposed amendment of the law in most cases is not in conformity with the rules of the European Community; since none of the comparatively stated and illustrated foreign regulations which would serve as a support for the proposed amendment of the law actually contains a solution, as contained in the proposed amendment to this law. And where is the greatest nonlifelessness of the proposed law? The existing road safety law provides, inter alia, that a vehicle which is not technically faultless or in a prescribed manner marked with a valid sticker shall be excluded from traffic and that the owner must remove the vehicle removed within 24 hours if it does not do so, the vehicle shall be removed at its expense by the operator of regular road maintenance. However, the proposal to amend the existing law provides for the same irregularity for a policeman to seize the vehicle and the owner must technically train and register the vehicle within 30 days, if he fails to do so, becomes a state-owned vehicle and no compensation for the stolen vehicle belongs to the owner. And if we now look at data on the causes of traffic accidents and violations related to the technical irregularity of the vehicle or the validity of the traffic sticker, which is the subject of this amendment of the law, we see that, for example, there were 41,314 traffic accidents in 2003, with 56 vehicle irregularities and as much as 15,579 infringements of an unregistered vehicle, let's say that the deadline of the stickers has expired. This means that if the proposed law were to be adopted to seize vehicles in all these cases, and if owners did not correct vehicle deficiencies within 30 days, these vehicles would become state-owned. However, the correction of the deficiencies is virtually impossible for the owners to access their vehicles at the time the sanction is implemented. Nor can we ignore the fact that the police are further involved in the seizure of a vehicle, transport, storage, security, disposal, decommissioning and destruction of vehicles and the costs incurred for all these processes. Finally, it should be pointed out that the existing Road Safety Act correctly regulates the issue of the removal of vehicles from traffic and the Offences Act has a provision on the withdrawal of a motor vehicle, but only if the policeman has the authority under the Order of the Judge for Offences. For all the reasons mentioned above, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group considers that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Safety Act is legally and systematically not acceptable and will therefore not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The opinion of the LDS Group will be presented by Mr Marko Pavliha. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, a very nice greeting to everyone from this city as well. Therefore, our party's parliamentary club does not support the objectives and purposes of the bill for reasons similar to those already mentioned, and we believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. By subjugating the seizure of an unregistered motor vehicle, we believe that the constitutional principle of proportionality would be violated. Nor is such a change of law justified in terms of comparative law, since foreign countries do not know or know such an institution. For the offence of driving an unregistered vehicle, this law provides for a fine which, according to the gravity of the infringement, is proportionate, while the law for such an offence provides that a police officer shall prohibit the driver from driving further and that the vehicle shall be removed from traffic. The proposal of the Council of State provides that the authorised official shall immediately exclude and seize the vehicle, thus allowing the rights of the first-degree criminal authority, which is not acceptable. Such a large intervention into the constitutionally protected right to property cannot be left to the police themselves. Otherwise, the system law on offences contains provisions on the seizure of items and on this basis the seizure of a motor vehicle may also be imposed in the infringement proceedings, and the perpetrators of offences have already ordered, for example, the destruction of a vehicle in the event that the violator repeated the infringements with the technical "non-executive" and unregistered vehicle, and the vehicle was without market value due to its longevity. Finally, let us mention that the proposal is opposed by the government and not supported by the legislative and legal service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic will present the opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The distinguished representative of the Council of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the time of the adoption of the Road Safety Act, we in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats have found that the law is aimed primarily at improving or ensuring greater road safety, more efficient functioning of the system, greater supervision of organisations dealing with the education of candidates and, of course, changes also in criminal policy, its definition in the law on offences, faster response to infringements, faster management of infringement proceedings and thus a smaller number of obsolete cases. The adoption of the law is estimated to be too harsh or too high. We reiterate that it is not the substance of the misunderstandings at the level of the penalty; the main problem is the conduct of individuals who are in grave breach of traffic regulations. After the adoption of the Road Safety Act, we voted again on it because of the Council of State, the reason was the same as now in the proposed amendment to Article 240, which defines the obligations of the owner of the vehicle to which the police seized. In doing so, it is worth noting the proportion of unregistered vehicles involved in non-tempered traffic accidents, but an important number of those who are not paying attention to the date of registration, but also are not the reason for any serious accidents. Therefore, it is appropriate to ask whether it is really necessary in these cases to seize the vehicle and whether there are sufficient penalties to be imposed on such cases. This is not to be overlooked by the decision of the Constitutional Court, as noted by our legislative and legal service, which has repealed the provision of a compulsory protection measure for the withdrawal of a motor vehicle under the Transport Tax Act for the reason that this is a major intervention in the property sphere of the offender. We also agree with the Government's view that, in the event of a vehicle being seized, the owner would actually be disabled so that within 30 days he could technically train and then register the vehicle. As I said in the introduction, in the UK Group of Social Democrats in the past mandate, we supported the adoption of a law in order to change the existing state of road safety, which requires a much higher blood tax. The measure or amendment proposed and not agreed with by the Government, and not by our legislative and legal services, as well as by our labour force, but by the key objective of less traffic accidents, will not achieve or is not an essential element for achieving the objective pursued. The UK Group will therefore support the conclusion that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Finally, the opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Anton Kokalj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u50	The New Slovenia Group understands the intention of the proposers to effectively address the problem that people face every day, especially in certain parts of Slovenia, with the proposal to amend the law. It is clear that citizens and citizens are also putting pressure on local authorities because the police and other state authorities have not been able to solve the problem satisfactorily so far. In principle, it agrees with the desired effects in terms of prevention of Nova Slovenija, and it is obvious that implementation means a concrete amendment to the article, in clear contradiction to the Constitution, which makes it impossible for the parliamentary group to support the specific proposal. It is a fact that, according to the government's assurances, the problem of endangering traffic with inadequate motor vehicles can be limited by a more consistent implementation of existing legislation. This applies mainly to the more consistent work of the police and the judiciary. At the meeting of the Internal Policy Committee itself, the Minister of the Interior was also present, who stated that police had received instructions at the end of last year that all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia should be treated equally and that all the measures already provided by law should be summarised. New Slovenia will actively support the better implementation of the existing legislation already mentioned and the better work of these bodies. If, this year, the problem raised by the Council of State on the proposal of representatives of the local authorities in particular is not significantly reduced, Nova Slovenija will also be more active in addressing this problem by checking the relevant part of the national authorities, as mentioned, if necessary, as well as by amending legislation, which will be consistent with the Constitution and other laws governing this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at the latest at the time set for the vote. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THE FIRST DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE COMMUNITY OF ROMANIA. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Member of the Parliament, Mr Zća Jelinčič Trimeniti, and in relation to this law, a group of 10 Members, with the first-signed Member Majdo Širca, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for a further explanation of the draft law, which they have 5 minutes for. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Today I have read in the newspapers that the law on the Roma community has the reputation of parliament, and I think that Slovenian national beings exist when some want to prefigure Gypsies over all Slovenian citizens and Slovenian citizens. The undeniable fact is that we are here at home and that we cannot give special rights to people who are not indigenous here. We can't give justice to someone who came here to the fullest extent only after II. World War II, along with the barracks of the Yugoslav People's Army, has recently come from the former places of the former Yugoslavia and has settled here and demanded special rights, such as none in Europe. Europe has these rights very narrowly defined and allows Gypsies only to settle in certain places when they travel from place to place, but only in strictly defined places and stay there for a maximum of 3 days - and nothing more! I don't know what they'd give them at our place. Those who would give them no idea what else to take home a gypsy family should also feed them with a fellow Member's or a fellow Member's salary. As to what is most important and I have said about autonomy, it should be noted that Miklosic already spoke about Greek, Romanian, Hungarian, Moravian-Czech, German, Polish-Lithuanian, Russian, Finnish, Scandinavian, Italian, Basque, English-Chinese and Spanish Gypsy. No autochthonics in the time of Miklošič to speak of ever before when it is said that the first documents mention the Gypsies in Dubrovnik in 1423, namely that there were Gypsies who came and were servants, trumpeters and blacksmiths of false money - something else, certainly nothing good. In Slovenia it is said that Gypsies have been since the 15th century - stupidity! The oldest ever known archival charter is from the Monastery of Bistra of 24 March 1452 and it says in there that the written or feudal book was still a little later by Jerne Schmidt Burger zu Laybach Zygeuner, it is said, was not a Gypsy, but they were telling him gypsy. It seems that some do not know the German language and then end the historical facts in their own way. In the 17th and 18th centuries we have some records about the Gypsies in Slovenia and in 1691 there is one that is actually a rabbinic account because one Gypsy Andrej from Kranj was hanged. In 1723 and 1724, two such rabbinic accounts were also known when they paid for gypsies to be hanged, not that they were indigenous. For it is necessary to be aware that certain documentation on the list of Gypsies has been preserved. And the list of Gypsies in Dolenjsk of 31 July 1916 speaks of three acquaintances, in which were in one 9 Brajdič, 8 Hudorovič, one Kovačič and one Breščak; in the other 8 Hudorovič, 2 Brajdič, 4 Levakovici and in the third 3 Brajdiči, one Jurkovic, one Full and one Taubman. In short, no large quantities and crowds that are indigenously populated here. But it really started to change later. And when we look at 1930, 234 Gypsies were numbered at the Dolenjska Armory Station, 225 Gypsies were listed in 1931, 970 Gypsies were listed in Dolenjska in 1964, but during that time between 1954 and 1957, the Yugoslav People's Army barracks were built in Dolenjska, and the Gypsies came along with them. Today these people would demand autonomy and special rights. They go so far as to demand these indigenous rights even by people who do not even reside in those congregations that have already been granted certain rights by the State. In short, the law guarantees equality before the Constitution and nothing more. However, if you are honourable Members and Members, for some to have more rights, know that you are opening Pandora's box. In the shortest time, the plasma of those who demand special rights will be wiped out, and then I don't know what will happen. Slovenia will probably go somewhere unknown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you, Comrade Jelinčich. Personally, I think that in front of the High Council and in this Chamber, somehow the term "Roma" or "Roma" or "Roma" or whatever. I give the floor to a government representative to explain the opinion. There's no replica to the president's statement. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Janez Obrez, please. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I don't see why it would have been procedural. It wasn't a violation of the rules of procedure. [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u54	[[...]] [[Not included.]] Yesterday you were talking about someone breaking the rules of procedure, today you're in violation of the rules of procedure. [[...]] Why? Because you're talking about gypsies. Look at the spelling of the Slovenian language, look at the literature and ask the Gypsies what they call themselves and then look at some other literature and you will see that under the Gypsy alone [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u55	Mr. Jelinčič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u56	one segment or [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u57	This has nothing to do with the procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u58	that Roma is one segment of the gypsy community [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u59	Mr. Jelinčič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u60	In which you are two others. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u61	Mr. Jelinčič, please don't get upset, keep it calm.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u62	I can't, Mr. President, because you're cutting my constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u63	I've just given my opinion, as president, that it seems more appropriate to me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u64	I also have the right to express my opinion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u65	you've given your opinion [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u66	The times when the Liberal Democracy makes it impossible for a second opinion, but unfortunately for you, it has passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u67	I reiterate my invitation to Mr Janez Obrezo to speak the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u68	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and others! The government has responded comprehensively to the proposal of the law under consideration today. She said that the Constitution introduced in article 65 of 1991 a provision which states that "position and special rights are governed by the law," which is to be understood as legislation in specific areas. Thus, the Constitution has introduced special rights, or otherwise: the founder who has adopted the Constitution has given the legislator the power to regulate specific rights. And this is also the case when the principle can be equalized before the law. Thus, the Constitutional Court has already ruled three times, in 2001 and twice in 2002. It is a matter of recognising more rights for different minority communities, because they can only be equivalent to the majority population. So the constitution is clear. There are also clear sectoral laws, there are nine of them, and Slovenia's commitments to European integration are clear. The Council of Europe is aware of two conventions, also signed by Slovenia, the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages. It must be said that what is actually disturbing the majority population is not regulated within the framework of special rights. This is general legislation that applies to all citizens. In particular, this has been shown in the past year's events in Dolenjska and it is only necessary to say that the authorities concerned with the implementation of certain rules must only implement these rules consistently, irrespective of their ethnic origin - and here is the problem. Social assistance, which has been widely read, is also not a specific right of the Roma community in Slovenia, it is a law that applies to all. Secondly, whether the social work centres consistently conclude social settlement contracts where certain conditions can also be recorded, such as sending children to school by parents to report to employment institutions or labour exchanges in order to ensure that various social transfers of assistance are deliberately spent, a functional form is also possible. On 7 October last year, the government adopted ten measures in which it commissioned individual departmental authorities, including the Slovenian Housing Fund, to take action in these areas in order to minimise misunderstandings between the majority population and the Roma community in Slovenia. Even the word "Gypsy" or "Rom." It must be said that at the first Congress in 1971 in London, the Roma adopted a general title and were named Roma. Otherwise, they are called different names in different countries. It is true that they also call themselves "Gypsy" in Slovenia. As far as historical legal resources are concerned, it is true that by 1971 the term was also used in Slovenia. As for history, autonomy, I can say that the gypsy from Slovenia is first mentioned in the chronicle of the archdiocese of Zagreb in the 15th century. So we can say that Roma have lived in this area for centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you very much to Mr. Obreza, Executive Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Office for Nationality. Presentations of the positions of the groups are now under way. As the first member of the Parliament, Mr Boštjan Zagorac, I invite him to present the additional position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! First, Article 65 of the Constitution: "The position of the Roma shall be determined by special law." This article has been in existence for 13 years. 13 years, gentlemen, you've had time to settle this, and today you're reading a violation of human rights. Second fact. By adopting the law proposed by the Slovenian National Party, we will finally resolve the gypsy issue in the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the previous government, took 13 years to settle this issue and it is not. You have addressed this issue in 50 different sub-laws, and you have adopted two government decisions. The first decision, 1.7.1999, on the replacement of funds for municipalities where the population has deteriorated in quality of life due to proximity to Romani settlements. Decision - never realized. The second decision, however, was mentioned by the speaker in front of me, but it was never realized. And it is the members of these parties, who have had this possibility for 13 years, that the Slovenian national party today sees xenophobia and human rights violations. Aren't you the ones who've been in violation of 13 years because you haven't settled this area? If they actually have special rights. Or you did not want to settle it because you know for yourself that the gypsies in Slovenia do not deserve special rights or deserve special rights, not greater rights than Slovenians and Slovenians in Slovenia. Today, I believe that in the debate, I think that the 3-hour announcement will be heard again by members of the Slovenian National Party on xenophobia and human rights violations. But isn't it just a violation of human rights that the Slovenian family at the social work centre is waiting 3 hours for minimum social assistance? The Roma come in, go in, take the biggest to get rid of her, and never see her again. These are practical examples. Don't close your eyes. The same applies to so-called circuit and municipal labour markets. It's the exact same case. They come, they report, and no one ever calls them again. Do you know how many Gypsies have applied for additional education at the Maribor Labour Exchange in the last four years? None. No one! They're better off than anything else in their life. Not to mention black buildings, crime and maybe anything else. The law before us is the law, as I said, which deals definitively with the gypsy issue in the Republic of Slovenia. The law is short and clear. It does not call for new changes and not for any other lawsuits, constitutional judgements or anything else. Anything else you'd say at this point would just be a lie. The law follows Article 65 of the Constitution and gives Gypsies as many rights as Slovenians and Slovenes in the Republic of Slovenia. It will be very interesting to hear from your side, which you are challenging to this law, how you will explain to this assembly and to the public who are accompanying us, why the Gypsies deserve more rights than the Slovenes and Slovenians. I wonder if you will be able to list two specific reasons why their lives should be better, easier than the lives of Slovenians and Slovenes in our country. I'd like to know how you're going to present this to this council. And once again, with the adoption of this law, we follow Article 65 of the Constitution and finally resolve the Roma issue in the Republic of Slovenia by giving them the same rights as the Slovenians and Slovenians in that country, since the protection of these rights is supposed to be the primary task of this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Comrade Zagorac. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Mag. Franca Žnidaršič to present the position of the democratic party DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u72	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. The proposal for a law on the Roma Community, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti, is a kind of attempt to abuse the power provided by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which allows the legislator to regulate the situation and specific rights of the Roma community by law. The signatories in Article 1 solemnly declare that this law lays down the situation and specific rights of the Roma community living in Slovenia, and Article 2 states that they do not have special rights and special status. That, of course, is all. Our Group believes that the Roma community has a special position, since it does not yet have all the special rights it has, but they are dispersed in nine regional laws. By such a law, the signatories not only deny the specific rights of the Roma community already in force in the field legislation but only the provision of Article 65 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, the defenders of national interest also ignore the position of the Constitutional Court, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the decisions and decisions of the National Assembly, the 1992 UN General Assembly declaration, the 1993 Parliamentary Assembly recommendation of the Council of Europe, Council of Europe resolution No 249, 1993, the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, ratified by Slovenia in 1998 and the European Charter on Minority Languages, ratified by Slovenia in 2000. The signatories, of course, have the right to submit any law, but they should be aware that, with the kind of treatment that it is, they are causing shame to the Slovenian people at home, and to the Slovenian country also outside our borders and, of course, in the world. We are convinced that you have not supported our entry into Europe just to present us there with an unacceptable attitude towards the Roma community, minority nationalities or other specific ethical communities. Of course, our Group is aware of the need to support solutions in order to regulate the unresolved rights and situation of the Roma community in our country, which will allow for co-existence and co-existence in an ever-friendly atmosphere, which is not enough because of those who are "smoking under the boiler of intolerance, arrogance and ignorance". From here on out, "Ibermen" is just a step further, which some would like to forget too quickly, even though they need to know how such things end. For some of us have already experienced such a relationship, and we certainly do not afford it to others. The proposed law could be an unsettled joke or parody, but not in Parliament, which, by its decisions, is destined for the real people out there, whether it is the people of the majority people or the Roma community. Regrettably, the motioners do not make jokes, and therefore our parliamentary group will not only not support this law but firmly reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Gnyardsich. Mr Ivan Grill is next to present the SDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u74	Mr President-in-Office of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I come from New City and Dolenjska, where the Roma issue is certainly one of the most pressing problems. This problem is becoming more pressing or uncontrollable from month to month, and I am sure that it can become irresistible over a year or two. I am the first one to want this issue to be settled or tolerated. We are also aware of these issues in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, and we know that it is very hot and is even more uncontrollable from month to month. That the problem of co-existence between the majority population and the Roma community today is so large and growing, it is also necessary to look for reasons in the current passive role of the country, particularly those of the sector ministries directly linked to it. These are, for the Ministry of the Interior, for the work of the Sociao and the Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as for education. Instead of looking for solutions to the emerging problems, they have generally always been "blowed under the rug" and so today we have a seemingly insurmountable problem that needs to be solved immediately. The solution to the problem of the coexistence of the majority population with the Roma community can only be sought in order to enable the Roma community to integrate economically and socially into the majority environment, thus allowing them to preserve their cultural identity. It is an urgent step to achieve this, and it is also that we will have appropriate legislation on the Roma community, which unfortunately we do not have yet, although this also requires the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Without the relevant legislation, which must be based on the provisions of the RS Constitution, in particular Article 65 thereof, and of course also with other international conventions signed by Slovenia, we cannot expect this integration of the Roma community into the majority environment. With regard to the proposal for a law on the Roma Community proposed by the Slovenian National Party and some co-signatories of the Liberal Democrats for the first time, we believe that such a law for Slovenia is totally unacceptable in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This bill completely ignores the provision of Article 65 of the Slovenian Constitution and at least two of the signed Council of Europe Conventions on the Slovenian side. We cannot and will not support such a bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we are convinced that such a law cannot in any way contribute to solving the Roma problem, but that the existing situation, which is already critical today, can only make it worse. The current Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of these problems and the urgency of immediate resolution, so we are confident that it will soon prepare such a bill in accordance with the Constitutional Republic of Slovenia, the Council of Europe conventions and other international resolutions, and in particular that it will contribute to the start of the resolution of this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you very much, colleague Grill. I would like to take the floor with my colleague, Ambassador Majdo Shirca, to present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Explain first. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has signed under the proposal for first reading of the law, not under the law. The signatories of such a law would never have been in the Liberal Democracy. And secondly, the word "gypsy" was given a poorer accent in the 19th century, and also because of this at the said congress, the terminology for the use of the word "Romani community" was unified. At the same time, let me say that the word "rom" means man and "rom" people and that "sint" means a member in Germany of the living Roma and means our people. It is true that, we have read in some comments when it was placed on the agenda a proposal for a law on the Roma community, why should a serious state authority, what Parliament is supposed to be, waste time with Jelinčič's nebulos. That's how one of the commentators wrote it down. True, the law is unconstitutional and it is not surprising that many understand this debate as unnecessary. In the Liberal Democracy, we asked for a general debate precisely in order to have the law rejected as quickly as possible, i.e. at first reading, because we believe that it is a legal and democratic state in mockery. The proposal for a law on Roma communities not only derogates from the constitutional provisions of Article 65 but consequently abolishes the specific rights of the Roma community laid down in nine sectoral laws relating to education, elections, participation in holy local communities, culture, media, librarianism and so on. However, in the case of social transfers - as a proposaler obviously does not know - they are already treated the same way as other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Not to say "blow up" to the obligations Slovenia has under ratified international conventions, I do not speak. The bill simply wants to abolish the Roma community as a special ethnic community in Slovenia. At the formal legal level, he wants to deny the living Roma in Slovenia and thus deny their ethnic identity, which is expressed through a different language and culture. Let me draw attention to the fact that the situation of the Roma minority has already been judged by the Constitutional Court and has decided to provide it with special positive protection for the promotion and realization of rights arising from their historically conditioned identity. Whether this protection is appropriate, sufficiently effective and whether it should be considered to improve and supplement it is a completely different issue, of course, in the context of the debate when it is proposed to expand rather than to marry the rights of the Roma ethnic community in the Republic of Slovenia. The motioner cynically says that if the constitution dictates a law regulating the rights and position of the Roma, then we offer it as a covert solution. But this overriding solution does not give rights, it takes them. The motioner says the purpose of the law is to fill the legal void. This is not true, since, as has already been said, a constitutional provision is implemented in sectoral legislation. Otherwise, in the Liberal Democracy, we have no problems as to whether the Roma issue is regulated in one, i.e. in a roof law, or in several sectoral laws. The last solution, if you remember well that in the area laws it has already supported in 1995, supported the competent working body of the National Assembly, is the Internal Policy Committee. In short, in the Liberal Democracy we have a problem with every attempt to violate constitutional and other civil rights. And keep going. With the attitude of an amateur historian, the proponent questions the use of the word "Rom" in the explanation of the law. It also organises facts concerning the settlement of Roma in Slovenia, as it tends to link the settlement of Roma with the formation of barracks of the former Yugoslav People's Army and even with so-called deleted ones. We know that the mass migrations of Roma tribal alliances — in short, the tribes of Roma, Sinti, and Kales — began in the fifth century, after being raised by Arabs from India, where they came from. Although they do not have their own land, 30 to 35 million Roma around the world have maintained many common customs, especially language. And so-called assimilation, as proposed by the Slovenian National Party, would eliminate or revive these differences, which are the product of their transnational identity. It would eliminate, for example, the possibility of co-financing cultural projects, which amount to a struggle of 14 million, but which allows the development of Roma music, folklore groups, their literature, theatre and other activities. I would also abolish other positive rights arising from positive discrimination. The proposal would also eliminate the possibility of the participation and decision-making of Roma representatives in the 20 municipal councils. This provision of our legislation was particularly welcomed by the Council of Europe's 2002 anti-racism and intolerance commission. Above all, the proposal would not allow for the further elimination of still worrying living conditions somewhere. We agree with that. In short, from that slow integration into educational processes, to employment and living conditions. The senior representatives of the Slovenian authorities, once legislative, now enforceable, have clearly and very publicly expressed doubts in the Roma as well with the indications yes, I quote, "that this is a population that has gone into a weaker form of civilisation and that it is difficult to expect that we will turn them in a shorter time." We know that these statements were made by today's minister. And we know that "civilisation" means everything in which Western societies see their advantage over other, usually minority societies. And we know that the exposure of some values to other minorities is very dangerous, especially if they are expressed by politicians, and today they have already been expressed in the National Assembly. Because intolerance is contagious. A message from the web forum, such as one Slovenian website recently, was published recently, called for the beating of the Roma in Hitler style, and is an example of an enemy speech, which I hope will be used for evidence in court proceedings. In short, in the Liberal Democracy, we will reject the law in the hope that similar proposals, which, as has already been said, are unconstitutional, will no longer appear on our benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you, Comrade Shirtz. My word, Mag. Majdo Potter to present the position of the United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Obrez, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Before I begin to present the opinion of the United Nations Group on the proposal for the law under consideration, allow me a somewhat up-to-date introduction. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia we often hear comparisons of modern, current events with events from the past. In this morning's national radio reports, I noticed a forecast of a memorial ceremony that reminds current generations of victims of the Jewish Holocaust at the Bürkenau Auschwitz concentration camp. And why am I saying that? Many Roma also have experience in the second world war of the Roma Holocaust, "paraimos" has been called when more than half a million Roma have lost their lives and many have experience in forced labour in camps. But the officially recognized status of the Holocaust victim and the right to compensation were granted only in the 1990s. So the Romani historical experience is similar to the historical experience of the Jews and our nation. But the fact is, the Roma community has always experienced a worse situation in its environment than other minority communities. This is a community without a country that has never fomented any greater conflict. And this kind of experience, says researcher Vera Klopčič, has raised the Roma's distrust of the outside world. Whether today's debate will reduce it is another issue. In the second proposed proposal of the Law on the Roma Community, an example of a legal text for the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, which achieves reverse effects from the announced ones, would, if adopted, constitute the repeal of Article 65 of the Constitution, not the final regulation of the Roma issue, as announced by the proponents. We therefore regret that it is even the subject of a hearing at a meeting of the National Assembly, even though we signed our own proposal for a general hearing at the time of the first submission. We wanted the legislative process to end as soon as possible. Because of all the concerns raised, we did not hope to attempt to enforce the constitutional provisions and the specific legislation already adopted. [[9 District Laws]] He won't go on. In the UK Group, we supported the view that the provision of Article 65 of the Constitution could be understood in such a way that the regulation of the situation and rights of the Roma community does not have to be regulated in a single, special, supervisory law, but that the situation and rights of the Roma community can be regulated in sectoral laws. Of course, it is not possible to overlook the fact that representatives of the Union of Roma Slovenia have repeatedly requested the adoption of a special umbrella law on Roma, which they believe will fully regulate their situation and rights. The question must be asked whether the status of members of the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia is indeed legally poorly regulated. Of course, in this assessment, it is important how minority members view it alone, and we cannot ignore the fact that there remains a discrepancy between the number of Roma and the data on the ground. The concealment of identity clearly points to the previously mentioned mistrust and reinforces the presumption of obstacles to the implementation of legal provisions. This raises the important question of whether it can be argued that the 61st article of the Constitution is being implemented in life, which gives all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia the right to express their nationality. Obvious signs of intolerance towards the Roma have been observed, which some have accepted as disturbing in their environment and are demanding their full adjustment to their view of the relationship between the minority and the majority. From this point of view, the proposed law is proof of a misunderstanding of the concept of positive discrimination, which in developed democracies ensures an equal position for ethnic communities. In order for the position of a minority or any weaker social group to be comparable to that of a majority nation, the law must provide them with more, and this is therefore a deliberate priority for the treatment of certain social groups because of their subordinate situation, so it is a matter of providing special protection. We do not understand equality before the law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats by giving up special protection on its behalf to minorities, as the bill's proponents have done. Their position that Roma have a privileged position in the Republic of Slovenia is an insult to the Roma and a mockery of all ratified international conventions, resolutions and other documents in the Republic of Slovenia, and it is particularly contrary to fundamental human rights and freedoms. In order to guarantee Roma the right to express their ethnicity, we also advocate the principle of integration, not the principle of assimilation, in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. We therefore support all those measures, conclusions and strategies that will ensure the implementation of the laws, regulations and programmes adopted, which the National Assembly has already discussed in the past. We expect the government to be effective in coordinating national and local powers and responsibilities for regulating the situation and rights of Roma and interacting with the environment. In doing so, the representatives of the Roma community must be taken into account by the interlocutors. Finally, let me point out not one more, in the opinion of the parliamentary group, unacceptable element of the legislative proposal. In particular, the explanation shows that the law's proponents did not take into account the findings of the various professions and researchers on the presence of Roma in Slovenian territory. This was just a few of the main reasons why the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats does not consider the proposal for a law on the Roma community acceptable and will not support the continuation of the legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you very much, colleague of yours. Mrs Marjeta Uhan has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your word. The House of Honour! We have at our disposal one of the shortest laws, but if it were adopted, it would have great consequences for the Roma community that lives in Slovenia. The adoption of this law would also constitute a failure to comply with Article 65 of the Constitution, which allows certain protection of Roma communities to be granted through sectoral legislation. This protection is now incorporated into 9 sectoral laws in the Republic of Slovenia, through which the public interest of the Roma community is realized. The question therefore arises whether a law on the Roma community is needed at all and what such a law would mean for the laws already adopted in the field. It also raises the question of how other nationalities living in Slovenia, particularly the citizens of the former Yugoslav republics, would react to the adoption of such a law. What New Slovenia believes should be done at this time, but in particular the assistance of the Roma communities in two ways. The first is the resolution of the living conditions for Roma communities, which would on the one hand mean the resolution of exceptional critical conditions for the residence of certain Roma communities and, on the other hand, would also improve the situation of those living around them, namely the Slovenians. From the point of view of Community funding, it is therefore necessary to consider whether to increase the headship of those municipalities in which such communities reside or to give priority to various development projects that resolve such a Roma issue. Another area is consistent education and employment of Roma. All that would be more than that, according to New Slovenia, is an attempt to assimilate the Roma community into the majority Slovenian nation, which means that the Republic of Slovenia would act in contravention of certain international signed positions, such as the Council of Europe Convention, the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages of the Council of Europe. In 1992, the UN General Assembly adopted a formal non-legally binding document, which provides in Article 1 for States to protect the existence and national, ethnic, cultural, religious and linguistic identity of minorities, ethnic groups within their territories. They live in the Republic of Slovenia at the moment, as far as housing and other conditions are concerned, certain Roma communities in an enviable position. This status needs to be resolved primarily through local and regional development, thus encouraging the Roma themselves to participate in projects relating to the areas of settlement of the indigenous Roma ethnic community. In a way, Slovenia was trying to resolve this by including Roma saints in the municipal council. It is therefore necessary to provide further sources of funding. The reference of the proposer to the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that we are all equal before the law, does not justify in any way his proposal that Roma have no special rights in the Republic of Slovenia. Equality of rights not only means equality because of discrimination and equal opportunities, but also implies positive rights for more vulnerable and vulnerable communities and individuals. This is also the case in the 2004 Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Based on this fact and the New Slovenia programme based on Christian-democratic values, New Slovenia does not support such and similar bills. We will also vote against any law that wishes to abolish in Slovenia the living Roma community as a special ethnic community in terms of complete assimilation or integration into the Slovenian nation. This would work in the same direction as the nation in the community of the great European nations we would also strive to preserve our Slovenian culture, language and Slovenian identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you very much, colleague Uhanov. And as the last position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Member, Master Janez Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Director of the Nationality Office, Mr. Janez Obrez, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group, I would like to say in the introduction that we oppose the proposed law on Roma communities, which was tabled by the Parliamentary Group with its first-signed fellow Member, Zmaj Jelinčič Plmeniti. Article 65 of the Constitution makes it clear that the situation and specific rights of the Roma community living in Slovenia are governed by law. The denial of the rights of the Roma ethnic community in the Republic of Slovenia is a denial of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which in the country of law, which we are working for on a daily basis, is in no way permissible. The proposed law, in addition to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia itself, also denies the already adopted sectoral legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, which, by virtue of its constitutional mandate, is now governed by the nine regional laws. The proposed law is also contrary to at least three decisions of the Constitutional Court, two from 2002 and one from 2001. The proposed law is also contrary to the resolutions of the European Union and other international legal acts governing human rights within the framework, the situation of ethnic or ethnic minorities. Many of you have already mentioned this Convention, the Council of Europe Convention and the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities before me. And also the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages. The Republic of Slovenia, as a country seeking to consolidate its democracy and to promote the democratic development of the whole society in all areas, must strive for the tolerance and consideration of other, in this case Roma who wish and have the right to become an equal member of this society. For the sake of known reasons and unregulated conditions in the field of housing, employment, education, they must be helped to advance and achieve equitable development and thus become an equal partner, while at the same time helping them as ethical communities to preserve their ethnic characteristics, culture, language and ethnic identity, as this, in the end, the rich majority people, i.e. all of us. Colleagues and colleagues! Our Group of Members is working and will seek to regulate these issues in such a way as to ensure that Roma are also obliged to respect laws and rules, which are certainly also subject to property rights and to respect those applicable rules in the Republic of Slovenia that may not be appropriate to them. We are convinced that the country must also demand respect for obligations from the Roma and not just for them to lay down rights. The school system must enable Roma children to integrate into the school space in order to obtain the necessary education for life and work in the community. The State must primarily regulate employment and living opportunities for members of the Roma community, allowing them to provide social security for themselves and to support their families in their work, as must other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Our environment does not tolerate the creation of colonies or ghettos. And such a way of resolving it would not have had a positive effect. In some areas, Roma communities are engaged in activities that threaten and burden the environment at the end of the day. As required by entrepreneurs, craftsmen and farmers, members of Roma communities engaged in any activity must also comply with environmental protection rules and operating standards. For the sake of the said, respected colleague and colleague, the Slovenian People's Party's Group opposes the adoption of such a law as proposed by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Kramberger. We have thus exhausted the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Before I give the floor to the first Member of the Rules of Procedure, I invite the representative of the Government, Mr Obrezo, who has this right, to the stage at his request, namely, after the fourth paragraph of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, the representative may apply to the floor at any time during the discussion. Mr. Cropping, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. From his point of view, it was understood that it was still unclear what was going on with the special law for the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia. The legal doctrine states that when a provision is made, the Constitution provides that a particular area will be regulated by law, that is to say that matters are regulated in different areas. By the way, I can also say that when the government adopted its opinion on the proposal for the law under consideration, it also adopted a position on 6 January this year on the preparation of a specific law on the Roma community. It has adopted this position, although no one actually has such a law in Europe, but there is a need to regulate organisation and status in some regulation. By the way, I say that there is no special law on Slovenians living in place and around the world, and the Constitution speaks about it in Article 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Gezo Juban to present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected choir! The debate or presentation of the views of the groups of Members is likely to have made clear enough what the purpose of the law is. We can also conclude from the text that the law has been introduced, not in order to be adopted, but in order not to be adopted. And, of course, then, different presentations are possible to the various parts of our society, which may also agree in small part with the proposers that anything is wrong in this area, so that we will also go to politics at the expense of the Roma. I am alone in that part of Slovenia, which is relatively densely populated with Roma, and probably Prekmurci and Dolenjci have a lot to do with such groups, although by their characteristics and if you want, problems also vary significantly. We meet with them from childhood until yesterday, I follow their habits, their qualities and do not resent me if I say that the term "gypsy" does not sound bad, but it is an expression that highlights some of the characteristics of the Roma community, because we still use it in us - Roma themselves also use this expression, in cases where it comes from some of their folklore skills, musical skills [[Gypsies and the like]] . Of course, it bothers me very much when that expression is given a bad earring, which is also where we experience it. In Slovenia, as I say, there are very different Roma. Local communities, which are called to solve their problems, see that they have different tasks in various parts of Slovenia. I am among those in Slovenia who can be very pleased that our Roma are relatively cultured or cultivated in such a way that they are dealt with in a completely different way than they are in Dolenjska or elsewhere, as your colleagues have said here today. I am pleased that from this group are some of their members who are fully integrated into today's society, to occupy important places, a role in today's society, perhaps an example or two, that in the orchestra of Slovenian police from this group is one of the best clarinetists, that from the same family the school in the postgraduate programme of the music academy is his brother's, that these ensembles at various events in Slovenia reach high and highest places in various national competitions and so on. I mean to say that the appropriateness of such a law, although it is not acceptable, as I say, because, despite everything else, the rest of the population - I have talked about the best - still requires special treatment, although when we visit their settlements, villages, they often do not separate themselves from others, but in a way that either society or the local community has dedicated themselves to them, they have taken seriously their problems, solved them, and in many cases made progress in these settlements. And it was no wonder that when a problem arose in Dolenjska, these settlements or our mayors visited, they asked for help, for suggestions, for instructions on how to solve the problem in other settlements in order to reach an approximate level, as achieved in us or in such environments. There are some reasons why I will not support this and this kind of law even in the future, but I agree with everyone that these issues need to be addressed. Or, as one of the colleagues in the debate also mentioned that, of course, this population should also be reminded, as well as that the obligations that all citizens have to fulfil: in the area of integration, among schoolchildren, later in society and so on. We have before us a national programme for Roma of neighbouring countries, neighbouring countries of Croatia, covering about 100 pages. I think we're going to have to deal with this problem in a similar way. Of course, it is different from the point of today's agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Janko Vebra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The short text in the Law on the Roma Community, which was tabled by the National Party, is, of course, very welcome - in appearance. It speaks of the fact that members and members of the Roma community living in the Republic of Slovenia do not have special rights and special status. Unfortunately, in practice, such a law can cause extremely serious problems, particularly in local communities, which are trying to solve this problem. And that is why it is really inappropriate for such a law to be applied for. Not to help the Roma, but primarily to put the congregation in the impossible position of solving the problem. The fact is that the Roma live in some areas, 20 congregations are even legal ones that must elect a saint in the congregation council, even though the Roma live in other congregations, but they still have special duties. And of course, these congregations, if this law were to be adopted, are in an extremely difficult situation. The funds you receive to enable the congregation to carry out the statutory tasks are provided for appropriate consumption. This one's been calculated. Of course, it does not contain a solution to the problem of the Roma. We have also tried many times, and in the previous call of the National Assembly to draw attention to this problem in order to enable the real implementation of problems in these local communities, but we have not come up with any conclusions, both in the National Assembly and in the Government. But still, it's one step ahead. Finally, it was one of the last decisions or decisions adopted on 7.10.2004, as stated in the Government's report, that the Ministry of Finance prepares everything to implement the 2002 decision of the National Assembly, by which it is necessary to provide the competent ministries or government services with additional financial resources to be allocated to municipalities with an indigenous Roma population to address the Roma problem. This part of this Decision is extremely important and allows additional resources to be provided for individual departments. While we usually mention only the Ministry of Labour, and the social and family ministry may still be possible, I would point out that this is not enough. It's not just these two sources. They are, of course, far most called to save - especially for the social and family - the social situation of Roma and other residents, but nevertheless; that someone is in a difficult social situation, but this ministry certainly cannot be solved in the way that, for example, it can solve, for example, the Ministry of the Economy or the Ministry of Finance. Well, it is further added to this decision that the competent ministries or government services prepare a proposal for the allocation of additional funding in accordance with Article 26 of the Community Financing Act. Of course, this part of the conclusion has one major flaw. We all know that the Law on the Financing of the Congregations will not be so ready soon. And I am particularly skeptical that this law would be prepared in the sense of solving how intensively the relationship of the Roma community with the rest of the civilian population is. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that, in these short-term measures that we have at our disposal, we open this debate to the law on the implementation of the budget. It is not a systemic solution, it is a solution that you can accept when the budget is adopted annually or when the budget is rebalanced. And in these annual solutions, in the law on the implementation of the budget, we can set out a greater headship per capita in those municipalities that have an elected Roma councillor. This is the fastest way in which decisions can be taken in the national assembly and in the government, and that local communities, which are those basic cells to solve these problems, can also be more actively involved in the resolution of situations that are particularly attractive in some settlements. So if this law has brought something good, in my opinion, it is that today we can say out loud that solutions are possible, short-term, until we reach systemic solutions. And I am pleased that the National Party has tabled this law, precisely because I can expect the government to start implementing the conclusions of both the national assembly and the government itself. Local communities, I can say, are ready to solve this problem, but with additional resources, otherwise this problem simply cannot be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings, colleagues and others present! So thinking is that additional rights of some tend to always affect the rights of others. However, it is reasonable and useful to reach such a compromise that it will benefit both of them. It is for this reason that social and other transfers and cooperation aimed at the Roma community must be made in such a way as to increase their socialisation, integration into the environment and that their stay will be as acceptable as possible and will be accepted by the other Slovenes and Slovenians so much more, in this way we will benefit both of them. It is very long-standing work and investment in Murska Sobota and other Pomurski municipalities that clearly shows that this policy is correct, because we have significantly fewer problems and problems with the Roma community than we would have had in other parts of Slovenia where the Roma community resides. I stress long-term work because there is no way to expect short-term results. Their stay is related to their folklore, we all know that they have a different view of staying, of society alone, and it is difficult to expect their assimilation, and also probably not the right way. However, in no way should all these investments be simply about buying peace and even more important, they must be stimulating, so that these social transfers do not stimulate them to work, but rather that they will try to participate as much as possible in society in order to find a society to send children to school so that they do not abuse health rights. I've heard the case of a given 1,000 visits a year to a doctor, but as they say, that's part of their folklore, too, they feel safe if they talk to a doctor. So, as such, this law certainly does not provide for these contents and is not appropriate. Therefore, I personally advocate such a law, which will ensure the active and patient co-existence of both and which will also ensure the achievement of these objectives, i.e. stimulating and selective with regard to their social rights and, on the other hand, that it will bring benefits and co-existence to all in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you. To discuss this, I invite Mr. Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a little while. I myself assess that the proposed law is essentially without substance, since Article 1 first states that this law lays down the situation and specific rights of the Roma community, and then Article 1 of Article 2 denies. In fact, I do not understand the content of this law. Roma in the Republic of Slovenia have no special rights. This is where the proponents wanted to put up a debate. However, I think that what we are discussing today will not be lost, and at least the government will be able to help if it really does make any special law, which will be extremely difficult to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Jožef Školč can now discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u94	Dear colleagues, my friend! We are working for two days on what is appropriate to put on the agenda and what is not appropriate to ask or talk about in this House. Yesterday we witnessed the situation when the President of the National Assembly concluded that a matter beyond the content could not be raised in the context of the agenda adopted. Today, we are in the opposite position when we consider a law that does not, in any respect, achieve that it could even be placed on a daily basis. I am not protesting that we have this law on the agenda, because I am joining that Parliament is a field where there is a need to clear up as dangerous ideas as the idea of this law. This law is not without content, as colleague Sok has just said: the content of this law is extremely unconstitutional, the content of this law is strongly anti-democratic, and the content of this law is extremely chauvinistic, that I do not use stronger words. This law erases with one move all that has been built since 1989, when it first came to a constitutional reference, such as the constitutional protection of the situation of the Roma community. With such a law, all those steps that were later taken would be erased. Those steps weren't enough. I believe that the elements of protection in the nine laws, in some international recommendations and in some international conventions ratified by the Republic of Slovenia and thus have become the subject of our internal legal order, or the need for compliance. I do not mean to say that everything has been done, and it does not mean that there is no need to think about further legislative initiatives or, eventually, even one law that integrates this protection. But that's not the subject of today's session. Today's meeting is important because we hear the views of other parliamentary groups as well as other political actors on this issue. I'm afraid that a lot of people are just going to come to their senses to say, Mr Jelinčič and his exaggeration, but working in this area doesn't make much sense either. All these presentations also indicate in one part that he was really overreacting, and in the other part that it is actually necessary to treat this community first - or for someone in particular - as a problematic community. I'm protesting against it! This is not a good basis for what the founder meant. For those who do not know this, I would simply say that in 1989 the ZSMS, the then-instigator of this constitutional protection, was a complement to the Constitution of the former Socialist Republic of Slovenia, which was also renamed to the Republic of Slovenia at our initiative. This was accepted by the then congregation, and this was taken by the founder when he adopted the constitution that is in force today. Then it must be said that it was not until 1995 that the first programme had taken place that tried to deal with these problems positively and, I will say, members of the Roma community as an ethnic group. It must be said that 1996, 1997 was the first time that the state, through the Ministry of Culture, co-financed, would not fund contributions to the first activist in this area. That is why I join those who feel that too little has been done and that we sometimes do not know how to deal with it. But what we are witnessing, and this initiative that we have today is not meant to think together about how to develop this protection, but it is intended to honor the party president and the party that has proposed it in its self-image as the one who is most deceived by the Slovene as the one who cares most about the little man than the one who defends the Slovenians from all possible dangers. Not long ago, when Mr Janša also participated in this instrumentalisation of the Roma as those who threaten our identity and our security. Not long ago, when Mr Drobnič participated in these types of discussions and in such contexts, today the important government officials are important, and from this point of view I think the optics of the parties to which they belong are a good sign. But when we discuss and discuss that the language of hostility is the one that defines the topic, we must remember that Mr Jelinčič and Mr Janša jointly supported those protestors who, before the government then led by Mr Rop, protested against the government's inaction and to protect citizens of the Republic of Slovenia from the Roma. It is also in this context that a declaration is made [[Quote]] : "We will hardly expect that this population, which has gone into one after its own time, can also say a worse civilizational form of behavior that we will turn them into in a shorter time." This chauvinistic statement was made by Minister Drobnic on the round table for the defence of the Slovenians against Roma. And these are, of course, the problems that such an initiative creates. This initiative does not aim to save the constitutional void, as stated in its explanation, but to spread hatred. And from this point of view, I think it is imperative that the National Assembly, without reservation, with all the problems that it sees also the visas for the implementation of individual provisions of individual laws, as was sometimes said, rejects Jelinčič and his. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Skull. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law proposed by my colleagues cannot be supported for a number of reasons. But it is very good that this has come on the agenda of this national assembly, and it is not least very good that the new government will have to take this seriously, because this is a thing that has a long beard in the Slovenian space. In the past period, municipalities have repeatedly pointed out the irregular situation of the Roma community in local communities because of these particular problems which have been the cause of this problem, there has been an incomprehensible former authority, they did not want to participate in these things, and they have left it exclusively to the local authorities, which I find to be unfair and unfair - to put aside those communities that are in these problems, thank God, they do not, and some do not. There are many things in South-Eastern Slovenia, so they also dealt with this problem at the local, regional level in various institutions. I think that a warning from the municipalities, which was also from this point of view, to the inadequate resolution of financial resources to municipalities with Roma problems. Some congregations have taken this problem seriously and have also invested little in their budgets to solve municipal problems, roads, lands and similar matters. These examples are examples of how things can be resolved, but this example would be even better, more successful if the country also lacked some toler to be able to round things up together in a partnership relationship, namely local communities, the state and public institutions dealing with this issue. I think that the current situation that we have in individual municipalities is one of the main problems or a priority problem for the resolution of the housing situation of Roma who are still on the verge of moving and living on private land. These are the major problems the congregations are dealing with. I think that even in the field of social activities, education, compulsory education is yes or no, I think so, and we have not come from this problem or so far. I think that it is also necessary in this new law or similar, I do not know how this government will deal with it, or also how to separate the criteria for monitoring the receipt of social security benefits, as well as the regulation of the labour and legal field. In short, a whole bunch of clusters, the problems that are taking place in this area, in particular local communities, is important in this joint cooperation to be successfully resolved in the interests of one another, others and thirds. I think there's something about you. I hope that today's debate, which has a very important length on today's agenda, will give some points of view, some opinions by individual parliamentary groups. If, of course, there is the will, as well as the government, to prepare something good, quality, and above all long-term, I hope that a great success will be done. I think the congregations want to take part in this. This has already been demonstrated, as I said, and of course they call on the government to do something about it as soon as possible. I know it's a difficult, difficult area, so it won't come tomorrow. I hope, however, that as soon as possible and with common powers, we can resolve these key problems, which I think are mainly the burdens of local communities. One of the main things I think is to give as soon as possible one financial support to municipalities with this Roma problem, and especially to those who are already addressing this problem at the local level. There's quite a few of these cases. Secondly, regulation of a legal residence where it is possible to interact with the rest of the population. These are the big problems that occur to us in space. Of course, employment is a key problem that is not simple, difficult. Perhaps the money that the social sector is committed to these Roma could be diverted to the provision of new jobs. Perhaps there are jobs that can also be an example for Roma, such as collection of various waste metals, municipal workers, harvesting of forest fruits and similar things. Perhaps this could also be a number of examples of good practices that could be successful. Social policy is of course very important, but nothing should be done illegally. Everything must be consistent, as it is supposed to be for all other citizens and citizens of this Republic. But I think that, in the first place, I think it's a fundamental question and a task to involve almost the entire government. This is a problem that affects both the Ministry of Finance if you want, as for education, economy, environment and space and so on. If this joint performance and this common desire are for all, there will certainly be results that will give birth to one big step forward. But this is a story, running along long lines, on short lines, we will certainly not solve this problem if it's old, I don't know, 400 years, then we won't solve it in this mandate. But if we don't start saving him, then we never see the end. I propose to the government, to local communities and also to all institutions involved in this, in one way or another, that they give their hands, step together and take a step forward in the area of Roma issues in Slovenia, because this is not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u98	Your Honors are here! Indignation, as shown by other political parties today in Parliament, can be understood as your concern for the rights of the Roma. Which is any way to say hello. Much better and more beautiful or much more welcome would be if you, distinguished gentlemen, had ever expressed concern for the unemployed Slovenians. For those of you who don't have a place to live. For tenants with high rents. But no. Even the loudest today coming from the Liberal Democracy and the United List, in your previous mandate, you have rejected any initiative that has sought to discuss housing issues, wages. But of course, on the one hand, it's understandable. It was about the rights and obligations of Slovenes and Slovenes, so it was not so important. But when it comes to rights, unfortunately, and not to the obligations of members of the Roma community, then you are all outraged at how this is something unacceptable, how a certain part of Parliament or one xenophobic group is, and so on. Let me put some perspectives on the words that have been raised so far in this part. The representative of Nova Slovenije said or wondered whether the law on the Roma community was necessary. Yeah, it's necessary. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia speaks of the exact name of the law, which is the law on the Roma community. The law is required from this title. The Roma Community Act represents one of those constitutional deficits that have not yet been met. I agree with you that it is sad that this deficit is not a national assembly in the previous or previous term already covered, but not because one political party is found, in this case the Slovenian National Party to fill the gap from the Constitution, but to talk about some kind of xenophobia. Please! As part of its reply to the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has said that we do not have the law yet, as it has rightly stated, and we are trying to correct it today in the Slovenian National Party, while at the same time the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has replied that we have in the field of legislation dealing with the Roma issue in nine laws. Let me just touch the first one. What is involved in the field management of certain materials? It's a law on local self-government. We all know the infamous 39th Article of the Law on Local Self-Government constitutes an ecclatic violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, one of the basic principles, which is the principle of general and equal electoral rights. That means, gentlemen, that certain matter is regulated or regulated in the field because there is no statutory law. At the national party today we offer you the adoption of a roof law. In the following I will touch all those, and I will not touch you, because there were too many of you who have seen xenophobia and similar things, but let me just tell you that the basic sentence of the law, and then think about what your answers will be, is: Before the law we are all the same. Is that chauvinistic? Is it too tense if a certain political party advocates, among other things, the constitutional standard that we are all the same before marriage? Gentlemen, it's not too tense, it's not xenophobic, it's something normal. But think about it when you read us these, in my opinion, very immature observations. In the debates themselves, I will touch on a dilemma that has not been triggered by the proponents, either the Roma or the Roma dilemma. I've never played an overly important role, and I don't want to insult anyone. Since I know that some people call themselves Gypsies, some Roma, but I will do as they like in the name. But I want to tell you, you know, today, according to my assessment, a double act. There's gypsy goulash at lunch today in the National Assembly. Or someone, gentlemen, from among you, a liberal democracy and a united list, which you have so filled with anger, asked or protested, I don't know, in the kitchen, in the leadership of the National Assembly, at what kind of guest school, that it's discriminatory because we have a dish called gypsy stew. Ladies and gentlemen, to do something, but not just to make unjustifiably critical. On the other hand, many of you today have talked about European institutions and their views on how in a smart Europe, because clearly we Slovenians are not, they take the word of the Roma only into account. Once again, this is the least important debate or dilemma under the entire law. Let me tell you that in the report on Slovenia, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance uses both the terms in both the indicator and the content of the letter, namely Roma/Cigani. Then why do you tell the applicants when we addressed the law: the law on the Roma community, and you expose it to my opinion as a completely irrelevant dilemma. Gentlemen, in that Europe that you all attribute to it the righteous care for minorities and so on, but that doesn't bother you, like you do in a restaurant where you eat nice every day, it doesn't bother you to eat gypsy stew. But I would like to touch two more, three more things, given that time allows me. As you probably know or sincerely hope to know, the Slovenian national party has introduced the law on the Roma community into the parliamentary procedure for the first time on 22.5.2003. At the same time, at the request of a group of Members, this group requested a general debate. Ladies and gentlemen, with that request and later, when you led both Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, you have caused that for two years we have not dealt with a bill on the Roma community, for two years you have left this matter in the air, despite the fact that you had the law written. The second time we filed our marriage on 7.12.2004, of course, the story repeats itself. If the national party did not insist on the law being considered, to learn what the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia requires of us and what requires of us the principle of equality before the law. I sincerely hope that today's debate will at least result in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia drafting a law based on the content of the proposed law by the Slovenian National Party, i.e. on equality before the law. Article 65 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia makes it very clear that we have in the legislative order or that we have in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia that we should also have a law on the Roma community. Forgive me, whoever refuses to admit it and who does not admit that it is one of the rare deficit areas of the Constitution of Slovenia, can not read it or does not want to understand it. And that's a mistake. The Law on the Roma Community should have been in force for years and years if we respected the constitutionalist or the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest legal act. But no, when you get a bill on the Roma community in the House of Representatives, it's those who proposed it, xenophobics. Then why don't you use the word xenophobic to mark the founders from 10 years ago? Gentlemen, have some principles! On the other hand, in the opinion of the Government, i.e. in response to a proposal by the Slovenian National Party, the law, inter alia, which arose from a petition signed by 11 mayors of Slovenian municipalities, accompanied the petition by a protest meeting outside the Palace of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 24 May 2004. There are 5 requests in this petition. It was signed by the mayors. So those who actually feel the consequences of an unsustainable legal void in this area. Once again, I stress the void we want to fill. The first of the petition requests that went to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was for the National Assembly to adopt the law or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare the law on a rapid basis, to send it to the National Assembly, in which it will make Rome an equivalent citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. That's exactly what we do with our marriage. In the pre-law dictatorship, we are all the same, so the representatives of the Roma community are the same to the representatives of, I don't know, citizens, citizens of all, but they also have the same obligations, equal rights and equal obligations. The second requirement addressed to the inhabitants of Dolenjska, Bele krajina, Posavja, New Town, Škocjan, Šentjerne, Semić, Trebnje, Ivančke gorica and Krske refers to the law on State administration, in particular to respect for municipal urban acts. As we know, this is one of those areas that applies to citizens and citizens of a particular municipality, but does not apply to members of the Roma community. I don't want to say that municipal decisions are secondary or that they only apply to a particular segment, but they are not. No, the difference between the law and the decree is that the law is adopted by the national assembly, the decree or the various acts are adopted by the councils of the municipality, and the same applies to a particular territory should be the territory of the municipalities, in our case the territory of the State. So the people of these municipalities wanted only that their acts adopted by the authorities within the local community should apply to all. Here we go. The third petition was to express fear of members of the Roma community. Today you hope to declare the National Party xenophobic or something like that, while petitions come from 11 municipalities in Slovenia expressing concern and fear of their citizens and citizens against members of the Roma community. Gentlemen, this fear should be common to all of us, and we should do something to stop this fear from occurring in our country. Or even more! Yes, those who fear or fear, however, are rewarded with additional rights and without obligation. That's your duality. There are, of course, many requirements below, both in the field of education, where there is an existing system, where there is of course no roofing law, because you do not want to accept it, which causes the student systems in schools to fall. In the Rippers. I'll just take the case because my friend Barovic is coming from the Ripper. But it doesn't bother anyone either. It was, I think a week ago when I watched the news on one of the TVs, I'm not gonna tell you which one. When reported on Roma violence against girls in primary school, against boys in primary school. And the commentator concluded that the contribution would still be made, despite the fact that at any time they spoke differently about Roma issues, they were branded by different, more or less related institutions with the Liberal Democracy and the United List, also by television as a broadcaster of intolerance. Is impatience spreading in this way to talk about the facts that are taking place in our country? Gentlemen, no! And of course, ladies, no! Finally, because we really want a few more minutes within the national party to have a later discussion on this subject. One of the representatives, speaking in front of me, stressed that it was possible to read anything negative about this law in the newspaper. Of course, gentlemen, it was possible to read anything negative in the paper, but if they failed to write the positive one. If they failed to report on the law, they did not intend to report from the national party press conference. Yeah, well, please, it just shows one fact that they either have a write-off. Last Thursday was a press conference. He doesn't hear about any print media. Ordered articles in the field of various authors, which are more or less, I have said several times, capital, or probably ideologically, but I believe that these are very few that are related to you. Then come such articles that talk about stupidity and identify the so-called xenophobia with the Slovenian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, read once again the most important sentence of the law that we offer you for adoption: We are all the same before the law. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. He's quitting. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have to say that I'm a little surprised at the discussion of my forerunner. And I must say that with one Slovenian word, it is a discussion that is more inhuman than favoured by people and citizens. I'm just going to take the constitution and tell you why Article 65 of the Constitution is written down. All citizens and citizens have the same rights. But for some to have the same rights, of course, they are specifically defined in the constitution. Article 65 of the Constitution states, the situation and special rights of the Roma community living in Slovenia are governed by law. Because, of course, they can have the same rights as us, this must be regulated by law. Now to the fact that no one will, of course, tell me that I'm running xenophobia and so on. The first fact, the possible adoption of this bill would simply end the Roma community living in Slovenia, as a special ethical community. This proposal seeks to put in place a process of complete assimilation, which is of course unacceptable. It is also unacceptable that the possible adoption of this proposal would deny all efforts so far, both by the countries and by the Roma communities themselves and by the local communities, so that things are regulated. Protection of minorities and of all special communities, including Roma, is a fundamental democratic achievement. The proposed proposal for a law runs counter to that. That is why solving the problem of the Roma community is a priority, and I am joining those, the thing of the state and not just the local community. To leave this problem to local communities means to rid the country of its responsibilities and to promote conflicts rather than to alleviate them. I am also joining all those opinions that say that police repression will not remove the causes of these much deeper problems than anyone can see. Nor will we eliminate them if visitors at anti-Roma events, such as last year's in front of the government palace, claim, on the one hand, to demonstrate how they advocate the equality of minorities and the coexistence of different ones with us. On the other hand, they will make public and claim that minorities are at risk of a national substance. Such words, such statements, I myself am referring to the so-called racist expression. The problem is that racism is not called racism and that the rule of law and the rule of law does not work when racism is to be punished. This is also a constitutional category. Ethnic bickering and ethnic hatred also in other cases, not only in the case of intolerance between Roma and Nero, are not recognized as such, although the Constitution states that it is prohibited. My proposal is very simple and simple: that the Government undertakes the preparation of this special law on the Roma community, which is not least defined by the Constitution, is recommended by some international institutions and which is promoted by the Ombudsman of Human Rights throughout the world. In doing so, I must say that I am optimistic, especially because of the statement made by the former Member who sat in opposition ranks at the demonstrations before the government last year, this is the current Prime Minister who said: We are tired of hearing the empty promises of the government. I now expect this to come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Kumar. Mr. Pache made contact with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u102	I'd like to repeat myself in the first part because you obviously don't understand. True, Article 65 of the Constitution speaks of what you have read. But the point is that this is regulated by the law. And that's not the law, so we're offering you a marriage. Please understand that this law of article 65 of the Constitution is not yet in existence! If this law were in the constitution, we wouldn't have filed it. I have to say this, gentlemen of the United List, because you have been in power more or less nonstop and you have not accepted this in ten years and a few years. That's why we didn't wait at the National Party anymore. And another part, I think, belongs to me another minute. You say "human" to me. Please! Yes, this is reported by some media that are more or less to you, in my opinion, very close and by your order they write. But you know, if you used a term like racism, let me tell you another story. The one who ignores, and that's what you all do together, your own country, and this one could be a traitor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please. There's no replica to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you very much. But, Mr President, I don't know if you can say - thank you for such a replica. [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u105	Mrs. Shirca, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u106	That's it. In the National Assembly, we have a legal layman in our ranks, at least that's what the Supreme Court said. However, we also have legal cynics. And Mr Peče is undoubtedly a legal cynic, given that he is manipulating Article 65 of the Constitution and does not want to say out loud about his message, which is, as we have already found, unnecessary for their party, the Roma and Slovenia. At the same time, I would like to point out that Mr Peče is also the editor of a journalist, who I quoted today at the beginning of a presentation by Mrs Tanja Lesčičar Pučko in her comment, and I hope that this kind of editorial of her writing will also be taken into account - well, when I quote that she was wondering about the seriousness of the state body, which is wasting time with Jelinčič's nebulos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Shirtz. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I've been thinking about whether or not to answer, because sometimes we hear that it's not worth advertising, because what colleagues from the Slovenian National Party are proposing is so absurd that it doesn't even make sense to get involved in this. I feel that such an attitude is wrong, that those in history, even in our history, have paid very dearly. And I will not talk about 1932 and 1933 in Germany, we can also talk about flights in Slovenia in a newer and slightly less recent history. Such proposals, which are primarily legal but not legitimate, must be answered. It is necessary to answer with a clear word and to say that there are also fronts and opinions that are in Slovenia and also elsewhere capable of preventing a way of thinking and approach to a particular problem. I would like to point out that there is a Bosnian Zagorac in the explanation. [[♪ I've got it right in front of me ♪]] stated that "the law before us deals definitively with the gypsy issue in the Republic of Slovenia, the law is short and clear." Mr Boštjan - who is not currently in the Chamber - is a younger man and would ask him if this final arrangement meant any association, let's say, like me. Does the word "endlozung" mean anything to him? It was used in Nazi times in connection with Jewish as well as Romani or, if you like, gypsy questions. Does that mean anything to him? Does this vocabulary that people use mean anything to all of us when they talk about the problems of a particular ethnic community, minority, or whatever it is? It is clear, therefore, that such a law must be rejected, not only by rejecting the law, but by rejecting the way of thinking about such matters. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that the problems are far from settled and that they are not regulated as they should be and that there is a clear need to work on this and that we must do much more to ensure that, above all, where conflicts are between, say, the Roma population and the majority population, clearly, Slovenian or any other population, they are present where they are being scaled up so that we know how to solve them. We will need to know them first and foremost not only at the country level. We've heard before that the state is almost to blame. I remember that at times, when I was at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, I had a special fund to prepare local plans for managing Roma settlements. This fund remained untapped, there were no special interests, sometimes yes, sometimes not. I think that, despite all the efforts that the country has to make, the key is at local level, the key to mediation and mediation processes. It is not just legislation, and it is not just a naked form of law that allows for such or otherwise coexistence. Mediation, mediation, integration of prominent people who have some relation to diversity, all of this is very important in this process, which must last, as it went on in Prekmurje and produced certain, clear, positive results. I am sure that they can be found elsewhere in Slovenia. I would like to draw my attention to that element of Mr Péčet's speech, which the current regulation, which is regulated in the field, is clear that it violates the rule that we are not all equal before the law. Before the law we are all equal citizens and citizens of Slovenia, including Roma. If he is driving without a registered car, he is as responsible as any other resident in this country. If he does not send children to school, he is equally responsible and, of course, subject to sanctions as foreseen in the future, as determined by all of us. It is not a question of equality, we are all equal before the law, not as citizens, regardless of our national, ethical, religious, religious or any other affiliation. Where they, as a community, are no more than individuals, certain benefits under specific sectoral laws, they are bound precisely to their specific characteristics as communities in certain areas, with a view to providing them with the same opportunities as others because they are minority. That's exactly the reason. And that reason, because it's obvious to all of us, I apologize for explaining it to you, is not clear to my colleagues, but we need to repeat it here so that we know what it is. The problem of cohabitation, as I mentioned, is what it is. It needs to be worked night and day, if I may say so, at local and national level. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we, too, are different from each other: politically, by value direction and by belief in one way or another, that we may have different ethical, national and other origins. But I'm sure it doesn't bother us that it's an advantage. I can't imagine what it would be like for all Slovenians and Slovenians to be the same. Imagine that all Slovenians would be the same, that they would all be the same as the Victory of the Tribal Jelinčič, that everyone would speak the same, that they would do the same, and that they would think the same as the Victory of the Noble Jelinčič. What would it be like? I don't know how, but I'm sure it would be very noisy, and as far as I'm concerned, it's pretty unbearable. It's gypsy goulash. We ate it today, it wasn't bad. The gypsy goulash is a term for culinary. But not from a political theory, an ethnic vocabulary, but I don't know, a national expression. You have to know where these concepts are. Gypsy goulash is a culinary term, not an ethnic term. That's why, gentlemen, the stew they made us in the kitchen, we've gladly eaten your stew, your political, but I don't think we will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. When I listen to this debate, of course, I feel that somewhere we are all united, that in some way the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia must be resolved. However, we have quite different approaches to solving this problem. I come from an environment where there are no Roma communities and we do not face the everyday problems of living with Roma in some Slovene municipalities. Often, representatives of the "majority nation" in these congregations feel threatened, and it is logical that they, first of all, demand that the situation of the Roma community be settled, in particular in the sense of some equality of rights. This problem is not even a matter for the congregation or a problem for itself. I therefore believe that the country will certainly have a more visible role to play in solving this problem. In solving the Roma problem, the State must demand respect for its obligations and not just give them justice, as has already been said today. Therefore, it is the duty of the State to regulate, in particular, employment and living opportunities for members of the Roma community, to enable them, as other citizens and citizens of Slovenia must, to ensure social security themselves and to support their families in their work. Population and our environment do not tolerate the creation of colonies and such a solution would not achieve positive effects. In some areas, Roma communities are engaged in activities that threaten the environment, burden the environment and threaten the population. As required by entrepreneurs, craftsmen, farmers, members of the Roma community engaged in any activity must also comply with the rules on environmental protection and activity. However, in the school system, we need to allow children to integrate into school space in order to obtain the necessary education for life and work in our community or country. Finally, I think that the proposed law we are talking about does not provide the right solution to the problem of the Roma community in this direction, which I have just been talking about, because, above all, it somehow denies the existing 9 sectoral laws. However, I also think that this law is contrary to those resolutions and the recommendations of the Council of Europe which regulate human rights and, of course, the situation of ethnic and national minorities, which is why I cannot personally support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u112	Thank you, President. There are no arguments and reasons of a political-legal, humane nature that oppose this bill. Otherwise, a proposal that is not surprising if we take into account the proponent and the policy that he is always advocating. It would have surprised the other way around. What the Slovenian National Party is with us, I have a lot to offer. The point embodied in this legal initiative, however unconstitutional and anti-civilisational, offers us an opportunity and a challenge to a new, shared and responsible consideration of how we view without a doubt the difficult issue of the Roma community and whether, as a developed social community and an eminent young EU member, we are satisfied with the achievement of the protection and regulation of its position, or whether its members and members are formerly the economic, social and security problem of the place where they reside, or whether they are primarily cultural and human wealth. On purpose, I do not enter into the dimension of human rights, which we could also talk about a lot. It is also about understanding the coexistence and coexistence of different, majority and minority groups, not just Roma, but almost everything between us in a society that is increasingly ethnic, linguistic, religiously mixed and diverse, because of this increasingly rich, which at the same time requires increasingly sophisticated mechanisms of mutual tolerance and mutual respect. It will be more patient, more friendly co-existence, and the security of all will be more reliable, and we will fear one another less, ladies and gentlemen. When it comes to firmly rejecting a bill that seeks to eliminate Roma as a special ethnic community and, last but not least, as people with its dignity, it also goes to call on the government to assess, in agreement with the affected, in particular with the representatives of the Roma community, the effects of the 10-year-old Programme of Action to help Roma and possibly update it with or update it with a series of new insights that time has brought and, in particular, with so-called better practices from the domestic and wider European environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. The Slovenian national party - apparently seven times to be said - wanted the application of Article 65 of the Constitution to be applied for more than ten years. Of course you don't want to understand that and you don't admit it. Okay. Today we were proposing a law on the regulation of the situation of the Roma community - let me start by mentioning statements, particularly the Liberal Democrats and the United List - we were: non-bullying, cynical, even referred to Hitler's style, we were inhumane, ethnic scoundrels and, I don't know, some expression in the Slovenian Parliament that Mr Gantar said, but I don't understand it because I don't know why he speaks German in the Slovenian Parliament. You have appointed the law-maker cynics, nebulosis, Hitlerese. [[approximately]] , ethnic firefighters, cannibals and so on! Did we call Rome that today? We didn't. Let's ask ourselves if we're inhuman to the Roma, how you're just being inhuman, cynical to us - because we're proposing some kind of law. Do you have any dignity in this national assembly? Do you have it? That's what you called us. I have magnetograms. Why not? Why not? The United List and Liberal Democracy, why not? Tell me why. What have we done to you? Because we want Section 65 of the Constitution to apply? Because? Because we have proposed a law that you could peacefully say is not appropriate, we will make a better one. You obviously don't know him because you haven't seen him in ten years. Say, this marriage isn't right, it's bad, we'll make another! Tell me where the country, Republic of Slovenia, Roma have no right to go to school! Tell me which place in the country, Republic of Slovenia, or what word in this bill prohibits Roma employment! Tell me what word in this law or any action in any place in the country, Republic of Slovenia, prohibits Roma from obtaining location information, building permits and building a house! Tell me, which marriage, which word, which place in this charity did the Roma say no, but the others did! That's what you say we do. You know, there are Rommies in the Rippers. They came, bought their own house and apartment. And in Trbovje, in the country, the Republic of Slovenia, they live the same way as all Slovenes. They also have to pay utility fees, the same fee, all pay the same as the Slovenians. And for the end again, if you don't understand: I won't give any Roma in my own congregation any more than the Slovenes, but they both have the same rights, because those Roma and those Slovenians who both have nothing, remember for the rest of their lives, both have absolutely nothing!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Several times the question of why was heard from Mr Barovic's mouth. Well, I'll tell you why we oppose this law. There is no need to be particularly skilled at reading laws in order not to find out what Article 65 of the Constitution says. Article 65 of the Constitution speaks of the possibility of granting specific rights under the law of the Roma community. This is not an article that speaks of equality for all, but speaks of the need for special rights for some in this country in order for all to be equal before the law, as described in Article 14. It is just that we are representatives of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia in this national assembly. And we would expect to act in their behalf. That's what we promised ourselves at first. One more, the other less determined, with such or other support and concerns about the government. But of course, Article 65 of the Constitution speaks of the possibility of specific rights being established by law. Special rights should be laid down. But where my view is different from that of the Slovenian National Party, it is possible to apply these special rights also through the adopted nine sectoral laws in which they are implemented, and they claim that this could only be done by some law, and then in a way that is the culmination of transposition. I don't know if it could be called legal cynicism. I'd rather call it legal dilettism. And now for the other thing. I live in a city that, according to the census, has recorded the largest number of those who have spoken for the Roma. In Maribor. These are those who came later to Slovenia, like those who live in Dolenjska, White Krajina, Prekmurje, Gorenjska and themselves, either by the expression Roma, or by the expression Sinti, or by the name Gypsies. It is expected that a name that has been in force since the First World Roma Congress in April 1971 will be accepted as a generally established designation norm, and therefore the established practice of dual designation is also impossible. In the first place, the new common name for which the Roma themselves have been identified and in the second place the name used before. And then there's the Tatars, and there's something else. And now we also need to know the nominal practice in Europe regarding other personal names, that they also retain old names in these environments, so that those who do not know the new names do not know who they are. In this context, drawing on some other names that are really bad is totally unacceptable. At that time, at their congress, the Roma also decided to adopt common symbols, which they identified as a nation without a country: a flag, an anthem, and a name. I'm saying it again. Indeed, I do not know what tradition requires Roma participation in decision-making processes, but Finland has made such a proposal, in what way to ensure the participation of Roma in decision-making. And I think they have the right to decide for themselves and how they will live. Today, many words were heard that should be included in the so - called hate speech. If this hate speech is advertised or heard from the highest legislative body, then it is also institutionalized and there is a problem. And that is why I am taking part in this debate for the second time today, because with my silence and non-participation, which does not have the support of simply boycotting such a rude, rude and offensive marriage proposal as we have witnessed to him today, because there was no general consensus, we have no choice but to participate in such work. And we have not heard anything about the fact that it is possible to find records if they cannot already read some of the references in the documents, if they already do not know from this some evidence of the existence of the Roma, I am surprised that they have found that they have settled in Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Croatia and elsewhere in Roma at the time of their escape from Turkish incursions. The only Slovenia was probably an island on which the Roma did not settle and settle just now, says after 1945 that I do not talk about this time alone Slovenia. But perhaps as convincing evidence at least this will mean that the famous Slovenian writer and famous Slovenian ethnographic material collector Janez Trdin in the images of ancestors in the 27 notebooks of manuscripts created between 1870 and 1879 also recorded a fundamental difference between the Dolenjians and the then named Gypsies. That the Dolenites don't like one another, the only ones who show that they love one another, but the children of Konjeder are the children of Konjeder and the Gypsies. And this is the value that the Roma know, namely, respect for family ties and appreciation for family over everything and love for children. This would be what would be good to hear in this National Assembly, which is so eager to deal with demographic problems and young people in Slovenia to order values to be set. Of course, it would be possible to find something else between the values they have. And let me remind you of something. There are no concerns when we talk about the artistic skills of the Roma, they also say gypsy gangs, and that. There's no way to trace it. We appreciate their relaxed attitude towards life and their great freedom and elementality. And they're excited about their abilities, especially their festive abilities. Of course, when it comes to talking about something else about Roma, the problem is so much bigger. And they don't have a problem with the Roma when they were able to raise themselves on the social ladder because of their education, because of their artistic talents. I don't know how many of you were thinking about Romani origins being Slovenian writer Misko Kranjec. That there are some of these among us who are of Roma origin and are in our great entertainment, and no one is expelling them from society. But how quickly we have to deal with people who show the signs of great poverty, and who were often the first to lose jobs, it is easy to say that they should find work, but unfortunately this sometimes leaves only a rhetorical claim without an appropriate response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr Školč reported to the replica earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have responded to this exercise by Mr Barovic and will try to explain to him in a kind way what he does not understand in his language.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u119	Mr. Skull, were you quoted and misunderstood? [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] [[... ...]] [[Laugh.]] It's a replica, Mr. Skull. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u120	Yeah, it's about that explanation. You weren't here when I spoke and when Mr Barovic spoke. And it's definitely the same questions. I wasn't named. I was named by attitude. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u121	Yes, Mr. Skull, then I apologize, and then I can't give you my word for the replica. Thank you. Mr. Franz Kangler has the floor. He's quitting. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] I'm asking again. [[...]] Was it Mr. Skolč? [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] [[... ...]] [[Talking to each other.]] Yeah. [[...]] I think we need to stick to the rules of procedure. The replica shall only be given if it has been misinterpreted. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] That's good. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Mrs. Potrata, I won't be so low, and we'll say you can't read, you're just reading too little. Article 65 of the Law does not say that it is possible to say that it is necessary. And you didn't do it for 12 years when you were in the government. You're standing here today explaining things to us. When you talk about equality before the law, it's a map of people's files that say they're not equal to the gypsies before the law. You know, you need to go from Parliament to a few people who gave you a vote, not just from here to home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u123	Once again, I would ask that we stick to the strict requirements of the Rules of Procedure. The replica shall only be permitted if the Member's statement is truly misunderstood. I give my word to Mr. Zagorec. You're giving up. You see, we'd have a chance to discuss it now. Furthermore, Mr Jože Ficko has been reported in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The applicants refer to Article 65 of the Constitution, which states that the Roma community has rights. I do not believe I could have taken them away or denied them by law, so it would have made more sense for me to have proposed a change of constitution. I don't know if it was too much, but the effect will probably be the same. The solution to the Roma problem in Slovenia is present, but I find that it is not enough. As the government states in the reports, it periodically deals with this issue, notes and repeatedly refers to individual ministries of responsibility regarding the resolution of specific Roma issues. This indicates that the solution is not systematic or insufficient, more like a fire-fighting approach to solving this problem. We have nine sectoral laws that regulate this, and I find that we do not have this resolution covered in one of the essentials. This is in the Law on the Financing of Communities or Local Communities. I myself find that municipalities have problems in solving this problem, so those with a Roma population. And also that explanation in the government's explanation that this is actually not the case in the calculation of the guaranteed consumption. For example, Roma students receive 100% of the regressive diet in primary schools, the rest of the population may be partially affected. Social transfers to people of Roma origin are inadequately higher than in all other citizens. Finally, even more funeral expenses are borne by municipalities that have a Roma population, i.e. inappropriately more than in other municipalities, so that it would be reasonable to include this variable share of the Roma population in the calculation of the guaranteed consumption of municipalities in the municipality. It has already been mentioned that not all the assets of the investment character of investments in Roma settlements have been used. I believe that some of the tenders did not include an invitation to tender this year or last year, and I note that four congregations succeeded in this invitation to tender. There are 20 of them in Slovenia that have this problem and in my opinion the country or the ministry should be more flexible in these calls. In some periods, however, investments are being built up and, if this happens in several municipalities, funds should be provided, which should be increased accordingly. In order to guarantee special rights, however, I do not consider that it constitutes a derogation from the obligation. And here I fully agree with the applicants. A special right must not mean a reduction of the derogation from the responsibility in the implementation of laws. We get a lot of sense that the Roma are more present in the delinquents, with, I don't know, breaches of certain legislation, but we probably all know that there is legislation in this area. Only implementation can be problematic. I also believe that it can happen that the Slovenian public is really discriminatory towards this population. In fact, if a Romani person commits a delinquency somewhere, some crime in the media will say very much: Roma did it and so on. If a member of the Italian or Hungarian national community had done so, it probably would not have been: Hungary or Italy did so. I believe that this negative discrimination is present. I come from Puconci, where the Roma population is in 7 hamlets, about 7% of this. I find that the residence stands, the socialisation of these Roma in the congregation, are very different. I'm guessing there's a very important reason for that. The eastern part, closer to the Hungarian border, is unseemly less socialised, less developed than the western part where Roma in the past had the opportunity to make money with their work. This is a general conclusion for the entire Prekmurje. And that's proof that we can't put them on the edge. If they have a chance, they can make money with their work. Let me get this straight. In another way, I can tell you how visible progress has been in solving this problem by the government. We have the first local community of exclusively Roma character, this is the suburbs of Murska Sobota, Deserta is called, we call it Plum at home. We have the first Romani museum in the Črenšovci, we have a number of high-ranking music groups, as I would say, we have groups that are engaged in dancing and I would be very happy if, respected colleagues and colleagues, we would like to see this to take you to these places to see this misery, but also the presence of a glimmer among these people. Perhaps there would be someone there to set up a monument, a yard, or to propose a holiday law on that day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Fick. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Ficko, for shutting yourself down. I think you're going to have to learn a lot more about parliamentary work, because otherwise you wouldn't be talking nonsense like you said, why we didn't go into a constitutional change. In fact, the 173rd article of the Slovenian Constitution speaks of the need for 20 Members to sign the Constitution, or that this is required by the government, or 30,000 voters. And since there are only six Members or Members of Parliament in our Group so far, and we cannot do so when we have 20 Members, we will certainly do so, but by then we have passed the law. So much for Mr. Fick. Now, about what we wanted with this marriage. The essence of being a citizen who thinks positively is that he has rights and obligations. The gypsies have only and only the rights that will be confirmed by this if you reject this law. Slovenian citizens, everyone else, we also have obligations, the Gypsies have no obligations. Another interesting thing is here. The Constitution states that members of the Roma community have special rights, does not say, members of the Roma community living in Slovenia and are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Since we have entered the EU, it means that every Gypsy from France who comes to Slovenia will have special rights because it is guaranteed by law in the Republic of Slovenia. If he comes from any EU member, he will have the same rights as you! And he won't need respect for the law, he'll be able to get social support as well, while our children, workers, workers are hungry. He can steal - the police won't arrest him, he can drive a car without registration and rob when he stops people - the police won't hurt him. That's what you're gonna do. More! In view of our legal experts, which we have so wisely great and clever, it will happen that any gypsy from wherever he comes from will have these rights, because after all it is the gypsy generation who travels and it is difficult to figure out where he came from. As for the government representative, who said foolishly that the Gypsies, because they were mentioned in the 15th century, are indigenous here. Given the mention of some gypsy Andrej who was hanged, or when a gypsy came from Ljubljana in Zagreb, this does not mean that they are indigenous. I will point out, this is the information from the official publication Roma in Slovenia, which was published in 1980, Mr. Government Representative. And it is important to be aware that this book speaks nicely of the Gypsies, mainly the Gypsies, as well as the Roma, as well as Sinti, the representative of the government; the third group, which is small and is largely not in Slovenia, is not mentioned. But given what you're talking about autonomy, it would make sense for you to read Valvasor. This means that, in fact, the autochthon can be anyone who once walked across Slovenian countries. In this case, the indigenous knights who went to the land of the morning may demand autonomy to defend the Holy Cross, Jerusalem. It is said that, after all, Richard Levjest indigenous Slovenes can also be found to be certain English knights who traveled through Slovenia, indigenous inhabitants of Slovenia, and therefore must have an English minority in Slovenia and give it special rights. Please! Please! And of course, the Slovenian Parliament, with its universal legal knowledge, will confirm this and burn it. What about the Slovenians and the Slovenians, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter! We'll just wipe them out, and then those two who will stay and put them in a cage and show that the Slovenians once lived here. Please! And Mrs. Trench's bullshit about the Tavern, please! This book says a lot of things very well. So there's one, I can't say another, like, "loading" even though it's a little weird, but it's actually these and nothing else. I don't know what rights to talk about and talk about Romani blood in our veins! Perhaps, as I understood Mrs. Potrato, she said she also had something Roma in her. I don't know, I have nothing, and I'm not ashamed of it. But I demand that those who have Romani blood in them respect the laws, just as I must respect them and all of us. It's true that some here-- [[Ms. Shirca]] - they did not respect the laws, but I think that this matter is slowly floating on the plan and that ladies and gentlemen will have to respect the laws, as well as pay for the time when they did not respect them. But in order to cover up all those matters, of course, then it is necessary to hang on the Slovenian National Party I do not know which adjectives and what else. I think and I hope, but above all, I think that the Slovenian voters - they have already begun to sober up, have already begun. When they get them from you a few more times in the head, they'll be completely sober. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Here you go, replica, Mr. Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u128	Mr Jelinčič, I sincerely hope that any positive quality of yours will affect my experience in working in this Parliament, but I stress positive. I wasn't talking about your client's technical skills in proposing constitutional change. I was talking, in my opinion, about sensefulness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you. There's no replica to the replica. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues! Given that I am a little darker sex, that no one will think that I have something gypsy, although I take Rome exactly the same as all nations, with all the communities that live in the Republic of Slovenia. The main problem of the Roma community in Slovenia is, of course, not that a large part of the Roma accept different forms of social assistance, but that they are equal in meeting the conditions of employment, Roma in total inequality compared to the anti-candidates, Neros. Any law on the regulation of Roma issues in Slovenia should cover the following areas: organised pre-school care and education; basic schools - Roma language in them; basic possibilities for young Roma to participate equally in the process of education and education; regulation of living conditions in Roma settlements; the possibility of legal acquisition of habitable parcels, their municipal arrangements, sewerage, water supply, waste management and so on; enable Roma to organise themselves as lice or local communities; and, as such, to participate in the work of municipalities and state bodies as an equal entity; assistance to the Roma community in the development of their information media, cultural activities, Roma publishing, society and more; employment opportunities for education, the establishment of enterprises with appropriate assistance to the Roma State; assistance to the development of their information media, cultural activities, Roma activities, Roma publishing, and other forms of social assistance to the Roma people with disabilities, and the possibility of receiving them. It is wrong to discuss the regulation of the Roma situation only through the prism of negative cases, which are particularly common among the lower Roma. In order to find the best solutions, it is necessary to establish contact and dialogue with the Roma Association of Slovenia, with a forum of Roma municipal councillors with other Roma organisations and societies. Just in the fact that so far most decisions on regulating the situation of Roma in Slovenia have been taken without their cooperation, there are many misunderstandings, abuses and inefficiency of solutions. In Prekmurje municipalities where there are about 5,000 Roma, it is precisely because of the continued participation of Roma representatives in the decision-making of their status and the situation of inappropriately less conflict situations than in other parts of Slovenia. In Premur Roma settlements there are a number of cultural societies that involve themselves in the cultural life of the locals, where their settlements are in the municipalities in which they live, and in a wider environment. Many Roma music groups and individual performers have not only been active in music, but have become increasingly popular in Slovenia and the international scene recently. Let me mention the group Halgate Gangs, Langa, Borovšek Brother, Jožet Kovac singer and many others. They have been preparing and broadcasting for a good decade on the central pomur electronic media for the Roma radio show of 60 minutes, prepared by Roma co-workers together with radio editorials. The broadcast directly prepares the breaking of stereotypes about Roma in Prekmurje and elsewhere in Slovenia, which positively affects the affirmation of their achievements, to open the debate on the main problems in the functioning of the Roma community and their solutions. The younger, but for its purpose and achievements, is also similar to that of the Roma broadcast on local television. The Roma problem is also dealt with in a planned and comprehensive manner by the central pomur weekly. Recently, an important contribution to the disclosure of the Roma problem is the Roma Information Centre, which operates within the framework of the Union of Roma Slovenia and prepares contributions on Roma issues for all Slovenian print and electronic media. On positive achievements in addressing the Roma problem, we should continue, including in those parts of Slovenia where problems due to the wrong approach are much greater, where the majority of people are still refusing dialogue and cooperation with Roma in solving their basic life problems. The introduction of Roma saints in Slovenian municipalities where Roma live has produced only positive fruits despite initial resistance in some municipalities. In doing so, further efforts must be made to educate Roma saints, train them to participate equally in the work of the municipal councils and to represent a genuine and authentic link between the municipal councils on the one hand and the Roma community on the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marinic. The representative of the government made his statement. I would ask - only another Member has a good two minutes of time, and then you would take the floor if you agree. Okay. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I am canceling this debate, but I will be discussing when the leadership of the Group of Members can at least count the time it has given Members at their disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u133	There's also Mr. Ivan Grill on the list. You have two minutes. Can I help you? Thank you. Then I give the floor to a representative of the government, Mr. Obrez. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I have to say what we all already know, but this is more an answer to the first-signed drafter of the Roma Community Act. It's about self-evidentity. In 1991, Slovenia decided by constitution, as well as in previous constitutions, when we were in the common country of Yugoslavia, it was no different to introduce special protection, special protection, positive discrimination for so-called classical minorities, classical national minorities and equal protection throughout Europe. This is also the position of the Council of Europe and so far all the documents the Council of Europe has. On one occasion Sweden acted differently in the case of the Finns, but then something quickly corrected. This means that protection is linked to a historical settlement, to a traditional settlement, as a rule also to a minority created by the movement of borders, and therefore to a minority, because on the other hand the whole or the queen is on the other side of the border. And in the case of the Roma community, which is in some ways a European minority, it is also traditionality, historicity and a specific area where this minority lives. I mentioned that Roma, then Gypsies, have been mentioned since the 15th century in this area. And special protection goes in the direction of protecting those Roma who live in precisely defined areas for which they have been identified from their mother's books, from births, morgues, weddings, to live there traditionally, historically. Slovenia has therefore decided, irrespective of the fact that Article 65 of the Constitution does not refer to the autonomy of the Roma, but it does so with the Italian and Hungarian national communities, that it will do the same with the Roma, which is not least seen in the political participation of the Roma, I am talking about specific Roma councillors, since Article 39 of the Law on Local Self-Government also speaks of autonomy. Other regulations also speak of specific rights that go to indigenous Roma. The decisions adopted by the Government - ten of them are extremely important and constitute an upgrade to other 1999 decisions, and last but not least to the 1995-October 2004 Roma assistance programmes - relate exclusively to these special rights, to those Roma who enjoy the status of autonomy and to those areas for which it has been established that they live historically. I believe that the government has taken a step forward to make a different decision than Croatia, I think that Member Juban mentioned the national programme of Croatia, which has 100 pages, I can say that we have forwarded and sent our documents to Croatia and they have essentially been translated into a national programme, the current government has decided to draw up an appropriate law, which will in turn also be a "unique" in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. Obreza. Only Mr Friend, 11 seconds, has a chance to speak from Members. Yes, you do. No, no, no. Thank you. The proposer's representative shall finally give the floor. Does he want a proposaler? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u136	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. Allow me to speak the final word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. For today your culture of dialogue has proved to be - here in the National Assembly, with the convictions you have given us. Let me start at the beginning with the Roma children. The New Man Court warns that children do not go to school. Every day these children are exposed to crime, poor care, actually being forced into corruption, prostitution, pedophilia. These are the facts. Social security doesn't act. In no case do we know that social services would act. Roma are allowed to drive, as we have heard today, unregistered cars to steal, to cause environmental threats. In short, they're allowed to do what we Slovenes don't. No one pursues them by violating the criminal code. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that a law was passed in this national assembly, which speaks, in 1.7.1999, on the so-called pension compensation to the twenty municipalities which have not received even the tolar of this title. Eight congregations are given 300 million tolars, and 234,000 Slovenians are hungry or on the brink of poverty! This is official statistics. We believe that this law is necessary and that it stems from a constitutional provision, although some are not of that opinion, and that there is a constitutional void, and we believe that we are talking about equality for all and for the Roma alike. The result of today's vote is well known, so it is not necessary to make a particular effort because no one will convince the sure ones. You're already sure. The Slovenian people have had the opportunity and the opportunity to hear you today, although some with a fig in their pocket when you press this button, you will be liked by your parliamentary groups. Because it would be time for me if you would allow me, Mr. President, to say a few words, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u138	He left the final thoughts to Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u139	Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich. You've got two and a half minutes left. It's just a time-consuming mistake. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I would like to say a few words about what has been said by the representative of the government. With his half-truths he was deceiving the National Assembly, he could have said that he was lying, but I won't say that he was deceiving the National Assembly, because the speakers about autonomy and allogeneity, both terms are very important for understanding these groups - he somehow avoided it. He was talking about Europe if Europe was to regulate a matter, but we know that it is not. Let us look at the regulation of the Slovenian national issue in Italy, Austria, Hungary, Croatia and then see who is right; certainly not, the representative of the government. One more thing. When he said that Slovenia had decided to raise the status of the Roma community to the same status as the Hungarian and Italian communities. It's an eccentric lie and a delusion. Slovenia has not decided on anything. If Slovenia decides on what, it will decide at the referendum. And if the representative of the government has forgotten that there may now be another regime that does not allow the use of the word "Slovenia" so self-involved and self-involved when it comes to their interests, let it be sobered, let it be stressed, let it look around and see that there is no longer what some have said: Slovenia has decided. Slovenia has not decided, we will decide, as we know, we - no, in the party, the Slovenian National Party will vote right, but the other Members and Members will probably make the wrong decision. And if we ever make a decision again, it will be up to the Slovenian people, perhaps even when, because of the inability of the police or because the police do not want to act, they take into their hands the same means that Gypsies use against those Slovenians and Slovenians who respect the law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at the latest at 16.05. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to six. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF AVENTIC EXPLANATION 125. Member of the Forced Settlement, Acquisition and Liquidation Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 125 of the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation was submitted to the Council by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. Representatives of the Council of State, Mrs. Marti Turk, a word for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you. I'm sorry. For the first time, I'm in such an important society, and perhaps because of my nervousness, I'll present our reasons a little bit worse, but still. Our proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 125 of the Law on Concession of Settlement relates mainly to the problem faced by companies every day. In fact, it is a matter of determining whether chain compensation is a normal or unusual legal transaction or a normal or unusual way of settling obligations between undertakings. The text of Article 125 of the Law on Forced Settlement states or provides that creditors and bankruptcy managers shall have the right to challenge any legal act committed by the debtor in the last year prior to the date of the insolvency proceedings, provided that the act results in an unequal or reduced payment of the insolvency creditors. It is also suggested that this act be abandoned, which has caused the debtor to lose a material right or a material obligation for it. However, in paragraph 3 of the same Article, in order to benefit the creditor, it is also considered, and in particular, where the contested legal act has been committed in favour of an individual creditor whose claim against the debtor existed before a legal act has been contested, and the creditor has received more due to the contested legal act than would have received as a bankruptcy creditor in the event that it would not have been committed. However, point 4 of this Article also suggests that the creditor who benefited from the legal act referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article knew whether he should have known of the debtor's poor economic situation, which is, of course, the fulfilment of claims that had not yet been made, whether he had received a payment in a manner that is not normal - one of these - and, if the contested legal act had been committed in the last three months before the application for insolvency proceedings or the application for the initiation of the enforcement procedure had been submitted earlier or after the submission of this proposal. In practice, it is particularly important to know how chain compensations take place in the economy. And the answer to the question whether a chain compensation constitutes a normal way of settling obligations depends, to a certain extent, on the effectiveness of contesting such a method of settlement of obligations under the provisions of Article 125 of the Law. In the event that such a method of settlement is not considered to be normal, one of the assumptions is that the effectiveness of the contested debtor's actions committed in the last year prior to the commencement of the bankruptcy procedure is that of the creditor's poor faith. In view of the initial uncertainty, the case law settled in the view that chain compensation is an unusual way of settling obligations. For example, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in its conclusions, has already held that I do not specifically mention them, because I think that we have also stated this in writing, but the legal doctrine in this respect is not in fact uniform; in particular, in terms of the answer to the question whether the netting represents a normal method of payment or not. Thus, writers Boštjan Rajc and Tomaž Petrovič considered in their articles that chain compensation was a normal method of payment, while Miodrag Djordjevic felt otherwise. I would point out that compulsory multi-member reconciliation is even regulated by a decision on compulsory repayment of obligations and claims of legal persons in the Republic of Slovenia and that a number of Slovenian companies, in fact the majority of Slovenian companies or companies, are also being compensated; that chain compensations are so common and extensive that they can be considered as a normal, normal way of settling obligations and that when determining whether or not they are a normal or unusual way of settling obligations, they are not only a legal issue, but also a real situation - this is a reality between the creditor and the debtor and developments in everyday business life. At this point, I would not particularly point out the other consequences of everyday economic life in the settlement of obligations, but I would not particularly point out once again that what we all know is that the payment discipline in Slovenia is very problematic, that companies are failing due to payment discipline in one way or another, that this is particularly problematic for a small economy, so we appeal once again that such a proposal, as we have proposed, is also accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Marty Turk. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was also addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you. Once again, a nice hello to you all. At its meeting on 12 this month, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 125 of the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation submitted by the Council of State of Slovenia in a single phase. The representative of the applicant submitted a supplementary explanation to the proposal for authentic interpretation indicating the purpose of the authentic interpretation, in particular in terms of extending and resolving the problem of Slovenian companies settling their claims or obligations in chain compensations, which have been a common and often burdensome way of settling obligations between them for years. In its presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service first pointed out that the regulation of the question whether chain compensation is a normal way of fulfilling it or not does not constitute an authentic explanation of its appropriate solution, since the authentic interpretation cannot fall into the content of the law itself in a way that amends or complements the legal text. The authentic interpretation is intended to clarify the legal provision, but taking into account its original content and for this reason it also has an effect on the adoption of the law further. However, it proposed to consider amending and supplementing the law on this issue. It further stressed that the case law that chain compensation is not a normal way of fulfilling obligations is uniform. The legal basis is Article 282 of the Bond Code, which provides for the content of the original obligation. If there is a chain compensation, it is not the content of the original obligation, but rather the replacement fulfillment. With such a replacement, one of the creditors comes into a better position than all the other creditors. She also stressed that there was a replacement because the debtor did not have money or liquid assets, which was the basis for the legal assumption that the creditor knew about its poor financial and economic situation. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that the government objected to the proposal for an authentic explanation because it considers that the issue of handling chain compensations in judicial practice is appropriate and consistent with the fundamental principle of equal treatment of all creditors in insolvency proceedings and the principle of liquid financial transactions. A more precise opinion will also be given by a representative of the Ministry of Justice. In the debate, we agreed unanimously with the opinions of the legislature and the government and with our opposition to the proposal for an authentic interpretation, for the following reasons: that Article 125 provides that the fulfilment of the creditor’s claim, if met in a way that is not normal, can be challenged and that all life and economic cases cannot be explicitly stated in the law, since then all laws would have more than a thousand articles, which would result in judicial practice defining the legal standards. Our case-law, a specific case-law of the Supreme Court, has repeatedly taken the view that chain compensation is an unusual way of meeting the claim. We also considered that the established case law on this issue was appropriate and that the proposed authentic interpretation would result in unequal treatment of all creditors, which is unacceptable or inappropriate. Following the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee adopted, pursuant to Article 150(2) of the Rules of Procedure, a decision that no proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 125 of the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation should be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Kucler. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Robert Marolt, to the State Secretary in the Ministry of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me to present the government's opinion, as already announced by the predecessor, the chairman of the committee. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia fully opposes the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 125 of the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation, since the issue of the treatment of chain compensations in judicial practice is appropriate and in accordance with the fundamental principle of equal treatment of all creditors in insolvency proceedings and in accordance with the principle of liquid financial transactions under the law on financial transactions. In the context of the implementation of the interpretation proposed by the State Council, chain compensations would be considered to be the applicable method of payment, even though the contract between the creditor and the debtor had not been agreed upon and, in the opinion of the Government, the equal treatment of all creditors would not be ensured. The creditors whose claims would have been settled in this way would have been unfounded in the obvious preference of the other creditors. Thus, creditors whose claims with chain compensation would not be met or could not be met should report their claims to the bankruptcy weight from which they would be partially or not paid at all. In contrast, the creditors involved in the chain compensation would provide themselves with the full payment of their claims even though they were operating at the same level of due diligence. The recognition of the fulfilment of obligations by means of a chain compensation for the normal mode of completion also constitutes an unjustified reduction in the insolvency weight and consequently a lower payment of all creditors, including employees employed in the insolvency proceedings of the bankruptcy debtor. For all creditors have the opportunity to avoid the risks arising from insolvency of the debtor using the applicable insurance institutions in the applicable legislation. The fulfilment of the claim by chain compensation cannot also be regarded as a normal way of paying due to the fact that such compliance is due to a business that is contrary to the rules in force in the current legal order. The fulfilment of claims in this way may mean that the debtor is operating without sufficient liquid assets and therefore its operation without sufficient liquid assets is contrary to the basic principle of liquid employment laid down in the Financial Transactions Act. The government points out in this respect that the law only defines this legal presumption, which can be contradicted. An individual who was chained up can prove in truth that he was a man of faith. If it turns out he didn't know and he couldn't know about the debtor's bad position, the court will find him a believer and his payment won't be cancelled. However, in the event of the adoption of an authentic interpretation proposal, the creditors or the bankruptcy manager should prove and prove that the creditor that was paid in chains was weak. [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In view of this, the Government considers that commercial traffic is not at risk because of the rule laid down in Article 125 of the law on forced settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation, and it opposes the proposal for an authentic interpretation of this Article. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you, Prime Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u148	Your Honor, the House of Honor. I will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 125 of the law on forced settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation. First of all, I would like to point out the fact already mentioned today that the bond code already provides that chain compensation is a substitute way of fulfilling obligations, unless, of course, this is the way it was agreed upon at the time of the occurrence of the obligation. For this reason, of course, it is difficult to accept such an explanation. It is true, however, that chain compensation is very common, many times even the only way in which companies deal with each other's obligations. Of course, we can ask ourselves why. Despite the fact that the problem of payment non-discipline has been very exposed in recent years, even though promises have been made, despite the fact that entrepreneurs have highlighted this as a major problem, nothing has actually been done in this area. This is mainly a problem for smaller businesses, and the fact is that this is also the case because some people are in a position to do so. I'll explain what I mean by that. As soon as possible, some companies in these chains are found - mainly large businesses, which are simply not to be avoided in these chain compensations - and, of course, these companies are very happy to participate in these chain compensations because they can also charge an appropriate commission for this to happen. This represents an additional profit for them and for those smaller companies which do not dictate the situation on the market, the added costs and the poorer competitive situation. The other thing I would say about this is that if a chain compensation were accepted as a normal method of payment, they would in fact accept and confirm or even allow to date a payment non-discipline. If we know that this non-discipline is just one of the biggest, if not the biggest problem of Slovenian entrepreneurship and economy, then we would be moving away from the goal of creating better conditions for the operation of this segment. Third, as regards the proposed interpretation, it is simply not ensuring equal treatment of all creditors. Only a cash payment is the payment that represents a normal or all acceptable payment and payment by chain compensation is possible only to those who can be found in this chain. To others who do not have the theoretical ability to find themselves in this chain, this payment is in fact nothing because they cannot afford their obligations and claims on the other hand. Therefore, such an interpretation would mean that, in fact, we have allowed certain undertakings to settle all their obligations before the bankruptcy of the insolvency creditor, while those who did not have the opportunity to compensate for their claims simply lose their pay and wait for what will remain of the bankruptcy mass; of course, not only creditors of companies but also workers, but also others. Last but not least, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, this proposed interpretation would exceed the purpose of the Institute of Compulsory Interpretation of the Law. The mandatory interpretation is to explain in more detail the content of the law which has been adopted, or perhaps the purpose of the law, but not to interfere with the content of the law itself. We believe that amendments should be proposed for this purpose, not by trying to change the content with an explanation. Last but not least, the amendments to the law or the direction of the changes are also considered by the applicants themselves. As stated in our Group of Members of this proposal, we will not support the adoption of an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. On behalf of the LDS Club, Dr. Mark Pavlich will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Say good-bye again from this place! Our Group also opposes the proposal for an authentic interpretation of this Article. We believe that business traffic is not compromised by the 125th Article rule. Well, most of our views have been correctly summarised in the report by the president of the labour force, and the government's position is virtually identical to that of the former government. All arguments against, however, are well founded on the practice of the Supreme Court and not least on the legal doctrine, such as the writing of Dr Miodrag Đorđević, who has been dealing with this issue for many years. But let me have a few words about this. Upon the application of the interpretation whereby the chain compensation would apply to the normal mode of payment, even though the contract between the creditor and the debtor was not agreed upon, equal treatment of all creditors would no longer be ensured. The creditors whose claims have been settled in this way would have been unfounded in favour of the other creditors whose claims with chain compensation could not have been met, even though they also tried to settle their claims in this way, but of course there were no debtors in the chain. The latter would thus have to declare their claims to be insolvent, which would only partially or not be paid at all. Unlike them, creditors who were fortunately engaged in chain compensation would ensure payment of their claim in full, even though they were operating with the same degree of diligence. The appropriate allocation of market risks requires all creditors to manage the risks associated with the non-applicability of their claims in the same manner and under the same conditions. The privilege of those who may be involved in the compensation chain departs from this principle as it is not based on any special care or behaviour of these creditors, which would suggest that they have taken better care to manage their market risks than other creditors. This would be the case, for example, when creditors have secured insurance for their claims, because under the same conditions any creditor can avoid the risks arising from insolvency of the debtor. In our legal order, for example, a whole set of institutions, such as classical and non-possessive flag rights to fiduciary transfers to insurance or withdrawal to insurance, are provided and could also be listed. The fulfilment of the claim by chain compensation cannot be regarded as a normal method of payment because such compliance is a consequence of an operation contrary to the rules established in the Slovenian legal order, and not least contrary to the law on corporate financial transactions - more specifically paragraphs 5 and 7. If I may conclude: Article 125, paragraph 4, therefore defines only a legal presumption, an subjective criterion which can always be contested. Trustees whose claims have been settled through chain compensation can thus always avoid contesting it if they prove that they did not know and were not able to know about the debtor's poor financial situation at the time of the fulfilment of the obligation. They have not done so in any of the judicial proceedings referred to in the proposal for authentic interpretation, so that the reasons for it have not been duly taken into account and all relevant circumstances have been evaluated, so, as stated at the outset, our Club of Members opposes this authentic interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr Bojan Kontic will speak on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Which, somehow in the shadow of the other political and media more receptive to these agendas, has also come to consider the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 125 of the law on forced settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation. The content of the proposal tabled by the State Council in the procedure is a positive answer to the professional legal question whether the chain compensation is applicable to the normal way of meeting the claim in the day-to-day business between the creditor and the debtors. It is correct to say that the legal profession does not have a single answer to this question, but the case law does have a clearly defined position and says that the chain compensation is a substitute and not a normal fulfilment of the obligations under which certain creditors come into a privileged position vis-à-vis other creditors. I also understand the applicant's concern about payment non-discipline. In the United List of Social Democrats, we are aware that payment discipline in the country is one of the major economic problems that has a negative impact on economic growth, but I would like to comfort the proposer at this point by saying that he should not be disturbed in any way, since the government, in its pre-election exercise and in its coalition contract, has ensured that, after the takeover of power, there will be no problems of financial discipline. So the concern for non-discipline of payments is superfluous. In the debate at the meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, it was pointed out, inter alia, that the adoption of that authentic interpretation would also constitute a substantive intervention in the law, which must not and cannot be the purpose of the interpretation. In the United Social Democrats' Group, we agree with the latter, but our main concern is not to defend such or otherwise legal position on this issue, but we would like to draw attention to the actual possible consequences, which have not been much said or recorded so far, but are essential to life. In fact, if the National Assembly accepted an authentic interpretation in the content as the applicant wished, this would mean that no legal business in the form of a chain compensation would be able to challenge legally in the last year before the debtor’s bankruptcy, as the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation now allows. As a result, the insolvency weight of the debtor would be reduced and, most importantly, the bankruptcy workers of the company would receive even less remuneration from the most vulnerable creditors in the process. There is probably no need to explain the difficulties faced by some Slovenian companies that are even more exposed to competition in the common market after our country's entry into the EU. In the parliamentary group, we do not want new cases of the Kranj Planika, Glass Rogaška and the like, I will not list them, so we will support as socialdemocrats the conclusion of the parent working body that the proposal for the adoption of the said authentic interpretation is not accepted, especially for the reason that the proposed measure does not reduce the bankruptcy mass and does not harm workers who have already lost almost everything in these bankruptcy cases: work as a basis for survival and then wage payments from bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you. Under the existing provision of Article 125 of the Law on Forced Settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation, it is assumed that the creditor for whom a legal act of benefit to creditors has been committed knew whether he should have known of the debtor's poor economic position, including if he has received fulfillment in a form or in a way that is not normal. Applicants shall propose the adoption of an authentic explanation, if it is not clear whether the chain compensation represents or does not constitute a normal way of fulfilling the obligations. Here the New Slovenia Group comes mainly from two starting points. First time. Is the adoption of an authentic interpretation even necessary; is the application of that article of the law in judicial practice a problem? And a second time. Would not the proposed amendment result in the unequal treatment of creditors in the insolvency or forced settlement process? With regard to the first question, we have found that the views of the Supreme Court are uniform: that chain compensation is not considered to be a normal way of fulfilling obligations, otherwise with all due respect for certain different positions of theorists. Therefore, the Supreme Court, subject to the other provisions of a comprehensive law and in particular the purpose of the law, has given its clear and uniform position. Since the purpose of the compulsory authentic interpretation is to clarify the possible unclear content of the legal provision in relation to the said, in the Member State of New Slovenia we do not consider that acceptance of the authentic interpretation of this Article is necessary. Above all, we believe that the adoption of the proposed interpretation would significantly affect the legal provision itself, which is not and should not be the purpose of the authentic interpretation instrument. It is necessary to be extremely restrictive in this regard, since it would be extremely unrealistic for us Members to write something in a law, in a certain article, and then change their purpose by adopting additional explanations. This would be in violation of the rule of law, and in particular with the principles of our New Slovenia Group of Members, which advocates clear and particularly predictable legislation. However, the possible adoption of the proposed explanation would lead to the unequal treatment of all creditors in a particular procedure. It's mostly those creditors who didn't find themselves in the compensation chain. Which, of course, is not their fault, but they have a different circle of business partners. In doing so, it should be pointed out in particular that legislation must aim in particular to ensure that all creditors are treated in the same way, not to make it dependent on the debtor to draw directly or indirectly into the chain of one of the creditors and thus allow him the privileged position towards the others. Above all, this must not become one of the silent ways of securing business, as there are other forms of insurance for this. The New Slovenia Group believes that the proposed solution could also result in an unjustified reduction of the bankruptcy burden, thus reducing already low payments of creditors' claims. And that would cause even worse problems for businesses. We are aware that we need to approach financial discipline in a different way than authentic interpretations. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will support the conclusion that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 125 of the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! This too is a serious subject, not an extremely serious topic, and we have tried to prepare ourselves for it as far as we can. The fact is that chain compensations were a method of payment in the past, which was legal, whether you admit it or not. He was legal and he was running, but some also served well in this way. The second fact is that chain compensations flowed as an unwritten rule, i.e. as a virtue of being recognised by economic and tax law. These are also statements made by the proponents, i.e. by the representatives of the Council of State, clearly and aloud. The fact is that this is and the objective is to make the creditor equalise the claim. The creditor's goal is always to get the claim settled. But it is what I always look and respect. This is the opinion of our legal service. The essence of this is the fact cited by the legal service: the authentic interpretation cannot fall into the content of the law in a way that amends or complements the legal text. We have to respect that absolutely. But there's probably another way that maybe -- or maybe not, I'm not a lawyer by profession -- this chain compensation was also used. Finally, the goal, once again, is that the creditor settles the claim. The essence of everything is what we all skilfully hide today: it is a financial non-discipline. Instead of taking action as soon as someone did not know, did not want to, could not or could not settle their obligations in any way, we left them to shut down businesses, open new ones, move their money and so on. But we're not gonna save anything with this. Therefore, on the one hand, it is unfair today, as most say, that marriage is unacceptable and is now impossible, and this is the injustice of one creditor to another. The guilt started a lot earlier. It is also true that the bankruptcy managers - of course, therefore also the bankruptcy managers - as good hosts sometimes know from practice, my colleagues, those who, I will say under the terms "sadly" are faced with bankruptcy proceedings in their municipalities to see how the bankruptcy managers sell through every real price what they can sell. And that money doesn't go exactly as we've heard from one side, that it's fair that first the workers get the part that they're owed and so on; we all know that's not the case and that's not true. These are the facts. Therefore, I am sorry that the essence of everything is exactly what the legal service says: an authentic explanation cannot fall into the content of the law in the way that the applicants give. The essence of this is also that once we are aware that there is another way to find one, if not one, but another way to do it, is that the applicant is right in the content. And no matter what it is, it's a state world. After all, the State Council has taken on one of the four elements that it cares about. Economists estimate that chain compensation is welcome, acceptable and possibly even more transparent than any other so-called legal means of settlement of debts and claims. In the Slovenian National Party, we have taken the position that I have now said that the goal must be to ensure that creditors get what they are doing. In what way, the easiest thing to do is to stick to the letter of the law. And even when we are supposed to stick to it, there are many who do not, so in the Slovenian National Party we will not make decisions on our own, and in whatever way, we will decide on our own conscience. I'll make my own proposal. I am aware that this is not the right way, but I am going to propose to encourage us to resolve the creditors' claims as quickly and as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Milan Squeakl has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr Srečko Hvauc is next. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. It was clear from the explanation that one of the key problems related to chain compensation was payment non-discipline. What bothers me is that it can be so easily declared that from now on or from now on there will be no more problems with this payment discipline or worry will be over. Look, I think she's gonna keep going, because the problem is still very pressing. That's what those who live in the real world know. It is true, though, that caring for this payment discipline will be taken over or taken over by another team. Unfortunately, the previous one has not been able to deal with this in many years, which is why the consideration of this different proposal is still ongoing. The other thing I might say is that, of course, I cannot agree that the question of the interpretation of this article relates to some wave of bankruptcy that is just here. It's okay if we're worried about protecting the bankruptcy mass, but in my opinion, the bankruptcy mass is the one that protects itself most so that the bankruptcy doesn't even occur. However, bankruptcy does not occur overnight, but occurs in a longer period, after a longer crisis of the company, which is due to internal or external factors. There may be another matter concerning the legal payment method or the legal way in which the obligation is settled. Of course, chain compensation remains a legal way of settling obligations. It was also prescribed in one previous period. We know that companies had to report their obligations. I think that was when she was called app, the name changed. As far as it's concerned, nothing's changed. It is only about whether we recognise this asset as normal or as extraordinary or as substitute, as provided by the Bond Relations Act. So again, I repeat my personal position that I do not support such an explanation. I would advocate that, if possible, chain compensations should be avoided or even eliminated in a way that is alive in today's economy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. A government representative has the floor. Mr. Marlot? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I could only add to the fact that the existing legislation, as well as the uniform case law, does not mean that an individual who has been paid chainly in such a way, i.e. by compensation, could not prove in justice and also prove that he was a believer. If he proves that he did not know and could not know of the debtor’s poor financial position, he will be found to be a believer in court and his payment will not be abolished. However, there was no such case in case law, failed to prove it. It is therefore a matter of accepting or rejecting the proposed authentic interpretation in essence only on the issue of the burden of proof, the burden of demonstrating trustworthiness or of mistrust. According to existing case-law, which considers a chain compensation to be an unusual method of payment, it is on the defendant’s part that the defendant is the one who was thus paid, and the burden of proving that he was not weak, that he did not know and was not able to know about the poor financial situation. If he fails to prove that he did not know and could not know about the poor financial situation, he will lose in this justice, and this payment will be annulled.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u161	Thank you, Mr. Marolt. Finally, the representative of the proposer, Mrs Marta Turk, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u162	I'm sorry if I'm taking your time and it's gonna be really short. I think that even the question of today's debate is, I think we can all find that we are very well aware of the problems of the economic situation, especially in view of what is actually ahead of us, the issue of payment non-discipline, which we are touching so directly or less directly. But I'd just like to give you a little heads-up. You know, those who haven't been in the economy for a while, and the payment time from the day of the order of realization to the end is getting longer. And the only way things run is by compensation. If the printer gets an order to make thousands of pieces of books, he has to buy colors, plates, pay for the production of a book and design sentence, he has to buy paper. When he does all of this, he has to tie the book together, hand it over to his client, and he pays it in 60, 90 or 120 days, and one month he's still doing it. At that time, however, paper sellers, paints and all of this needs to be settled. And of course similar in all other manufacturing processes. Of course, we agree that in chain compensations, those who can spin it all the time and those who are manufacturers are hard and hard to endure. And when we speak and when we advocate this authentic explanation, it's actually about solving that first situation before the bankruptcy occurs, that's how things are handled, and that's how it's defined that, in fact, chain compensation is one of the usual ways to pay for things to run. After all, there are no jobs without the existence of a company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Turk. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. If not, then I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes. The vote will start in half an hour, that's 15.55, five minutes before the fourth. I'm breaking this agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. 2nd point - The assembly will vote, in accordance with Rule 139 of its Rules of Procedure, on the law amending the law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production into non-terrestrial executions in the framework of tomorrow's vote. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the State Council. We are moving on to a decision on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the State Council - the second reading - is not suitable for further consideration. Anybody want to explain their voice? If no one, then I invite you to check the cards, see if they are properly inserted if the lights are on. If so, we shall proceed to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. 73 Members and Members present. He voted 65 against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] The proposal was adopted. The legislative procedure on the bill is hereby terminated. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the road safety law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Road Traffic Safety Act - the second reading - is not suitable for further consideration. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. 76 Members and Members present, 69 votes against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The proposal for a decision is adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on the Roma community. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the Roma community - the first reading - is suitable for further consideration. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Blackach. Anyone else? Here you are, Mr. Chernač. You have the floor to explain your vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I did not discuss the law today because I do not intend to participate in future debates on laws that are not intended to regulate the situation, but only to promote one of the parties. But I'll explain my voice. The Romani Community Act, as it is officially called, we see that it has three articles. In short, the first article states that it sets out the situation and specific rights of the Roma community. In another, that these rights are not, and that before the law we are all equal. And in the third to enter into force on the 15th day following its publication. I won't support the law. Not because that would be the position of the Group of Members, but because of the fact that I cannot support it, the applicants convinced me themselves in today's debate. So Members of the Slovenian National Party. Why won't I support him? Because his admission wouldn't have arranged anything. Will he save the 134 thousand hungry Slovenians spoken of by his esteemed colleague Friend Happy? He won't. Will Roma drive any less unregistered vehicles, as spoke of by representatives of the Slovenian National Party? They won't. Will it solve the conflicts between them and the locals who escalated in the past year? He won't. Even if the law had been adopted, it would not have been possible to resolve it because it was not his purpose. Its sole purpose was to promote the Slovenian National Party on the backs of an ethnic group, which certainly does not deserve this. I think that this debate between the Roma and others today will further deepen and that we should all work together to address solutions that have a certain weight and that would not cause these conflict situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. Blackach. Does anyone else want to explain their voice? Mr. Jelinčich. Anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The law is important and the law would have arranged many things that have not been settled so far. With regard to some people who are specialists in handling matters, I think they forget their own past, when they were, say, the directors of Lipica, who were almost driven away by them because they handled matters as well in Lipica as in Mr Cernač. I think it makes sense for the law to be adopted, because only those who are better than other Slovenians, citizens of Slovenia and citizens should be brought to the same level. We can't agree that some are privileged. And that's the purpose of this law. To regulate constitutional matter and to ensure equality in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u168	This concludes the list of Members who wanted to explain their vote. We move to a vote on the proposed decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 69. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 69.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure on the proposed law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, by addressing the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 125 of the law on forced settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 125 of the law on forced settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation shall not be adopted. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Barovich. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u169	Once again, because when I spoke on behalf of the Group of Members, when I said how we were going to decide, there were, under the terms, a "great" number of Members. Therefore, I say that I will personally vote in favour, although I know that the legal service does not consider the matter to be fully acceptable and that it is, in substance, absolutely acceptable. I also announced that members or colleagues in the parliamentary group would decide on their own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-25-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 7. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the procedure for examining this authentic interpretation has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also interrupt the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. All Members and Members are invited to expert guidance through the exhibition prepared by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, immediately in the lobby.
