ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Branko Marinič, Villa Rezman, Davorin Terčon for the start of the meeting and Dimitrij Kovačič. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item of the agenda, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia to the 8th item and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council to the 13th item of the agenda. I welcome all the invitees here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting on 11 March 2005. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I did not receive a motion to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. The College of the President of the National Assembly proposes that the agenda should be extended by considering a proposal for a law establishing certain procedures for offences and dismissing the execution of certain sentences of imprisonment, an urgent procedure. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will consider this item to be the 14th item of the agenda. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference and with the proposed addition. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 4th meeting of the assembly has been set. I hereby suspend the session, which will be resumed at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 34 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the Groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. Then, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel and Minister for Education and Sport, will answer the questions raised at the 3rd meeting of the assembly, to which they did not respond. Members who have asked two questions will ask the second question after all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government shall respond to questions within five minutes, as well as if the question has been raised by several ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question; please the Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. With regard to the announcement of the questions sent, I would like to inform you that Members Rudolf Petan, Rudolf Moge and Marjan Pojbič have raised questions which were not referred to in the field of work of the ministries to which they were addressed. Member Rudolf Petan therefore asked a new question, and Member Rudolf Moge referred the question to the competent minister, and Member Marjan Pojbič withdrew the question. They are also Ambassadors Matjaž Han and Mag. Anton Rop announced questions that made it unclear what they were asking. They have therefore amended or corrected their questions accordingly. On this point, Minister Zupan apologized for today and will be absent after 5.30 p.m. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised, the Prime Minister, the Minister and the Secretary-General must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in the bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you received a review of the questions sent and of the initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mr Saša Pece. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u3	Dearly-respected Prime Minister and members of the government! Your coalition contract points to the chapter of the banking system and privatisation, especially the privatisation of the New Bank of Maribor. As you probably know, the New Bank of Credit Maribor has been successful in all Slovenian sense, especially on the basis of unaudited business results for 2004, as well as for a narrower local area, namely Styria, an extremely important institution, which in addition to banking services on the market performs everything else, from sponsorship and so on. As a Member, who comes mainly from the neglected region, I am disturbed by the government's position or the government's attitude towards the issue, for the first time because of the untransparent policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. your policy, and for the second time because of the harmful government policy in relation to the financial institution called the New Bank of Maribor. The fact is that the extraordinary events initiated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, especially when it comes to dealing with foreign speakers, have a negative impact on the life of the individual bank. In our case, i.e. the reference from the Assembly during the period when this bank attempted to borrow foreign credit, it is my opinion that this increased the risk of default or higher interest rates mainly on the basis of so-called risk assessments carried out by other banks. Thus, the negative effects caused by you and your government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the New Bank of Maribor, in other words mean a possible lower purchase or, in other words, a lower price when selling the New Bank of Maribor. As you probably know for yourself - and I believe you know - the market share of the New Bank of Maribor in the Slovenian field is large and, more importantly, stable. And it should be in the interests of our country that this stable financial institution or stable position is maintained, not that it tries to devalue or work it under political pressure. In this connection, let me remind you that the previous government or in the previous period of 1994 adopted a decision by the National Assembly at the time of the adoption of the constitutional law, which said that a privatisation law must be passed for banks, and a second part for citizens and citizens to be reimbursed in the form of bonds issued. You held on to this in 1999, when you proposed the law. During the entire previous term, my law was hanging in the air, fulfilling the so-called constitutional decision, but the fact is that the previous Liberal Democracy decision did not take into account and sold the New Ljubljana Bank to a foreigner without any reservations. On the other hand, I would like to know, Mr Janša, if you answer me: What is the course of planned privatisation? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] What about the possible recapitalisation of banks? And: Why, if the bank is doing well, do you plan-or do I assume that you are planning - to change the management frame, given that the bank is operating successfully? I ask for a correct or specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u5	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for saying so! Colleagues and colleagues! Mr Member, thank you for this question. First, let me say that the government, with no concrete decision, has interfered with the operation of this bank, not in the operations of any other business bank, nor does it intend to do so in the future. Where the country is a major or, as in this case, directly or indirectly, 100% of the owners of financial institutions will act as a good host, but without interfering with the specific business decisions of the administrations. Because if you did, you wouldn't be acting like a good master. As far as privatisation is concerned, the government will act in accordance with the coalition agreement and in accordance with the interests of the Slovenian economy. It is not in the interest of Slovenia and the Slovenian economy that we have banks that deal in profits. It is also in Slovenia's interest that we have both good banks and a well-standing economy. And in recent years, there have been some breakthroughs here when we had very well-standing banks, but in the areas where these banks worked, it was not possible to say the same for the economy. Thus, in all the moves that will be made in connection with the privatisation of the New Bank of Maribor or in another financial institution will be drawn to the future, this will be at the forefront. We want to establish or upgrade in Slovenia, because to a large extent it is already established, such a banking system that will serve the interests of the development of the economy, local communities and Slovenia as a whole. Since the 1st May of last year, when Slovenia joined the European Union, the situation of Slovenian banks has partly changed, competition has increased, this has already partly affected the operations of some banks, of course we will be able to make a full balance sheet after one year, so far it has not been possible to do so, but the fact that the Slovenian banking system will have to adapt to this, that further privatisation will also be part of this adjustment, that the government plans this year to complete the concepts of this privatisation, to harmonise them, and then, of course, to propose appropriate solutions where some criteria will be put forward, one of these will be non-discrimination, so to say, we will privatise shares on the principle that the shares will be reached by those who offer more to Slovenian taxpayers for these shares. Another time. When it comes to certain specific interests that we have in the role of the Slovenian banking system in economic and social development, we will protect this interest by maintaining a certain control stake both in this bank and possibly in other banks. The privatisation process will be carried out in such a way that each owner or future owner protects or retains such a role. As has already been said, it is in our interest that Slovenia is not only well-standing banks, but also a well-standing economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Ambassador would like an additional reply? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u7	Mr Janša, you say that you will go into privatisation in principle, and I ask you why you have changed your own principle when you passed a privatisation law in 1999 and made a meaningful and correct case for this part of Slovenia, which has more than just bank banking services, it would be transparent for this privatisation to take place. In your answer, hand to heart, there is nothing to perceive about the word transparency. But I would like to touch on another subject regarding your answer. You probably know that banking is one of the most sensitive areas in our country not only because of international flows but mainly because of the attitude towards the economy and of natural and legal persons. Look! How can you say that the government of the Republic of Slovenia does not interfere with the operation of the New Bank of Maribor when I just said that the call of an extraordinary assembly - why was it called - is basically, we all know, caused quite a few financial damages, especially a minus in the international reputation of this Maribor bank? Other than that. The profession in our country says that it would also be necessary for a quality bank to recapitalise the New Bank of Maribor, but of course the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not approach it; first talk about some kind of privatisation where you do not want to talk about it, whether it will be exclusively Slovenian individual and institutional owners or you plan to sell it to the Belgian KBC as an example of earlier Liberal Democracy. In this regard, allow me to point out when you say: there must be well-standing banks. Look what happened at the New Ljubljana Bank! All profit that is goes abroad, and the Bank of Nova Ljubljanska also shows its profits on the property sale account and on the account of the sale of the financial investments that this bank carries. And we can't talk about this as a good master. I invite you also to answer me: Why will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - and will it - replace Mr Mesarič at the head of this bank, who has created a positive relationship not only to Styria and the environment, but to Slovenia as the bank leader? Why would you do that? Why don't you leave a good institution as well as a human resources institution as it has been? Thanks for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you for that additional question. After all, I've answered him in part before. As regards the law tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group in 1999 concerning the privatisation of state-owned banks, let me say that some of the solutions that were then possible cannot be implemented today for two reasons. For the first time, part of the banking system has already been privatized in a different way at this time - partly untransparent, you are right. Secondly, Slovenia has entered the European Union at that time, and some of the rules of the game are now different and some of the solutions that were possible before that date are no longer possible to implement today. However, it is possible to ensure transparent privatisation. That's actually gonna happen. I do not agree that certain individuals are now the only condition for the success of a financial institution. All that has happened so far with regard to the bank you are referring to is the exchange, but not the perfect, supervisory board that performs the supervisory function in this financial institution. This Supervisory Board has not adopted any substantive decision, so it has not yet been able to influence, either positively or negatively, the operation of the bank or the rating of that bank abroad. However, I fear that the bad will in connection with this move is linked to the fact that the Government has not taken into account in the proposal for the Supervisory Board some of the proposals that came from the party from which the Member raises the question of the Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. You want procedural? Please, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u11	Dear Members! I'm talking to you this time. I would like to express the wish afforded to me by Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure, that the National Assembly vote tomorrow to define or hold a broader debate on the subject of the banking system in our country, or to discuss the transportable privatisation of the New Credit Bank of Maribor, which is also a requirement, or to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should also be burdened. Please support the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u12	We will vote on the proposal tomorrow at the time of the vote. The next one will ask the Prime Minister a question, Mr Mag. Anton Rop. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u13	Mr President, the esteemed assembly, the distinguished Mr. Prime Minister! In recent weeks, you have unconditionally supported Croatia's accession to the European Union and have publicly expressed doubts about the work and efforts of the Hague court. Then you also argued that the European Union has double criteria in the case of Croatia, as so far it has not been necessary for the other members of the European Union to meet all the conditions for entry into the European Union. On 14 March 2005, you stated: "It would be a crime for Croatia to impose conditions which other candidates have not met." I would like to ask: On what basis have you publicly expressed your doubts about the work and demands of the Hague court? Why do you think the European Union has double criteria? Why did Slovenia have to meet all the conditions for entry into the European Union when it was necessary for Croatia to do so? I wonder: Is there any other argument, any other fact in the background of these positions that condition this unconditional support for Croatia?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Rope. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you for your word. Thank you for that question. However, it has been quite common in recent weeks and days and we have already responded extensively to it, but let me reiterate that the enlargement of the European Union to Southeast Europe and, in particular, to a country which is the only one of our neighbours who is not a member of this link is in Slovenia's strategic interest. I think that there are no differences in Slovenia or that this is part of the majority belief; there is no point in repeating this. I would also point out that, at this stage, no decision has been taken and no decision has been taken on Croatia's entry into the European Union; at this stage, it is decided to open negotiations where Croatia will have to prove, after all the chapters of these accession negotiations, whether it fulfils the conditions for entry. Last December, the European Council, through our active participation, established negotiating frameworks or negotiating venues and dates for the start of negotiations with both Croatia and Turkey. For both countries, the decision was positive and Slovenia supported both decisions. The list of open issues to be met by both countries before the start of the negotiations included only one question, one key question for Croatia. There were dozens of these issues in Turkey. However, the European Council has set a date for negotiations with both countries and has also set a relatively difficult condition in Croatia, which has been stated that Croatia must demonstrate full cooperation, full cooperation with the international court in The Hague for war crimes in the territory of the former Yugoslavia by 17 March. This text was drafted with a very clear understanding and explanation of the applicant, who was Luxembourg in this case, that this meant only what it says is a condition for Croatian authorities to prove full cooperation and to do everything in their power to extradite all suspects to the Hague court. There was no name and no specificity under these conditions. So that interpretations, which were partly from your side in recent weeks, that the condition of extradition was still the last suspect, are not true. According to the information we had at that time, the Croatian Government has done everything in its power from December to March to meet this condition set by the European Council. Some other countries felt differently. The conclusions adopted at the last meeting of the Foreign and General Affairs Council in the coming weeks will allow for the verification of this fulfilment and, if this verification is positive, it is likely that Croatia will be able to start negotiations during this mid-year during the Luxembourg Presidency. Slovenia has not, by any declaration, "defended" the work of the Hague court, on the contrary. We have only advocated a decision adopted by the European Council unanimously last December and in which we have also been involved. And in no case are there any differences between Slovenia and the EU, because Slovenia is part of the EU. Slovenia is one of the 25 members of the EU, there can be no gap between us and the EU. We can't break up with each other. There were differences of opinion, and some countries were only defending one aspect. Slovenia, which is the immediate neighbour of this candidate, must take into account several aspects. And I think that there are other interests of Slovenia besides the Hague court, without discording this court in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Does the Member want an additional explanation of the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, as regards the relation to the Hague court, you stated 16.3. on TV Slovenia, where you expressed doubts about the effectiveness of the work of the Hague court. As for the rest of what you have said, of course it is in Slovenia's long-term interest to join the EU, while respecting EU standards, there is no doubt about that. However, here again you reiterated your thesis that there are no reasons why you might conclude that Croatia does not meet all that it should meet before the Hague court. So I ask you: Do you not agree with the British Foreign Minister, who says that the EU cannot start accession negotiations with Croatia, because the key precondition, full cooperation with the Hague court is not met? He continues: "I regret that the evidence shows that Croatia does not participate fully with The Hague." You said the other way around that you didn't think there was any evidence. And: Do you also object to your own position when you said 1.9.2003: "Therefore, there is no negligible warning which should come from the Slovenian side that Croatia will also have to meet important political criteria for EU accession." And it is probably one of the important criteria of cooperation with the Hague court, which the British Foreign Minister says there is evidence that there is no such cooperation. Why have you changed your attitude, and why is this really necessary?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. Rope. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u19	Well, I also thank you for this additional question, which allows you to address some of the ambiguities that appear to occur in these interpretations. Firstly, I would like to point out that the condition of full cooperation with the Hague court was placed as a condition for the opening of negotiations on 17 March 2005 for Croatia in the conclusions of the European Council in December 2004. My statement is very precise and explicit - and you quoted it too - related to this period. During this time, in our view, Croatia has cooperated fully with the Hague court. On our question to countries that had a different opinion on where the evidence of this was not, some arguments were presented, but related to the period before December 2003, and in this regard we also have some different views. But once again, I remind you when this condition was put in place. Slovenia does not have clearly some intelligence available to other countries, nor did we get it at these meetings when these evidence should be submitted, we only received it informally. However, all this information relates to the period prior to December 2004, which was also widely written, and it is clear that the problems concerning cooperation with the Hague court on the Croatian side were considerable during the initial period; especially during the previous government, and partly during the time of that government. Because of this, as has already been said, our position in this case was very principled, correct, and there is no way of reading anything, nor is there anything else in the back. I think that any normal analysis of the situation shows that it is in Slovenia's strategic interest to see Croatia come to the European Union when the conditions are met; that this is, after all, also the approach that we have taken when we have opposed, for example, Slovenia being pushed into a convoy waiting for the last candidate to meet the conditions and then all come to the European Union together. I propose that we also continue to defend the same principle, because the other principles that have been in force here and which could have affected us have not been acceptable to us and the principle of the position is also, once inside, to defend the same principle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. The next Prime Minister will be asked a question by Mr Miran Potrč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u21	Dear Mr. President! This year, the entire European and advanced world will celebrate the 60th anniversary of the victory over Nazism and fascism. This is also a unique opportunity for Slovenia. At the celebrations organised in Slovenia, we can assess and highlight the contribution of our partisan national liberation struggle, not only for the liberation of our own country and for the integration of the important part of Primorska into the queen, but also for its contribution to the joint struggle of allied forces to defeat Nazism and fascism and to create new foundations for a democratic Europe. To miss the opportunity to highlight at home and in the world our active membership of the Anti-Hitler Coalition and our active cooperation with the allies would not only be historically inaccurate, but it would also not be useful to strengthen Slovenian national consciousness. We have not been informed of the preparations for this important anniversary of the Member and Members of the National Assembly, at least not from the opposition. However, we can follow the debates in the media, as well as the views of government representatives who allow doubts about how these celebrations will be organised. With the emphasis on reconciliation, the celebration of an event of importance for the creation and development of our irritability, and the desire to overcome the divisions of the past, which we fully agree with, there are also doubts in these controversy about the undisputed decisive role of the NOB for liberation, the creation of the foundations and the development of our statehood, and the greater emphasis on ideological differences that led to fatal divisions during the occupation, and unfortunately in the Lublin region after the war, also to the victims and beatings. Apologize for these practices has already been made and convictions have been made. The efforts of the State and most political parties have also led to symbolic misdemeanours and symbolic recognition of injustice, so different views on these issues should not obscure the undisputed historical significance of the 60th anniversary of the victory over Nazism for the existence and development of Slovenian national and national consciousness. That is why I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister: Where and with what content will the countries celebrate at the 60-year-old victory over Nazism? Will they participate in these celebrations and will the winners' representatives in Slovenia be honored, that is, Slovenian partisans? And: Will there be speakers from the government coalition or others at the national celebrations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. Run. You have the floor, Mr. President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u23	Your Honor! Thank you for that question. I think that not only, as you said, the entire advanced world, but the whole world will celebrate that at least this part of the world, which was covered in the cataclysm of World War II, will celebrate the 60th anniversary of the end of this war and the victory over totalitarianism or over two totalitarianisms, Nazism and fascism, because there are no differences in this. I think that there is no country in the world, there is no part of this world where we have a positive attitude towards these horrors, and also Slovenia will prepare a national celebration to celebrate this anniversary, which will be at Cankar's home on the proposal of the relevant committee on 9 May. As far as the content of the celebration is concerned, the content will follow the goals of not sharing these Slovenians' anniversary, but to link ourselves in a very clear relation to this past, including these specific anniversaries, which, as has already been said, are important in Europe and also in Slovenia, where there are no major differences and we would not want these differences to be created artificially with us. The country will organise, given that at the end of World War II in Slovenia did not follow the boom of democracy and human rights, but also things that should not have happened, the sad state ceremony at the 60th anniversary of the post-war beatings, which is likely to take place in Tehran in June. As far as speakers are concerned, the practice of this government will be no different from that of the previous governments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Would you like an additional explanation, sir? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr President, thank you for your reply. I have to say that the answer is partly satisfactory, but not entirely satisfactory. I believe that the important work of citizens and citizens who expect a clear, clearer attitude of the government towards celebration will not be satisfactory. I would like to remind you, because you know this, even at the starting points of what the opponents of course II were about. World War II. Prime Minister Churchill made it perfectly clear who is the ally and who is the opponent, not according to ideological criteria, but after who is fighting Nazism and fascism at that time and who as an individual or as a state cooperates with him. It is right that we remember other sad events, it would not bother us, it would bother us if celebrating victory over Nazism and fascism were connected to anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you, too, for this additional question. I think that all of us who are responsible with this country will do our utmost not to start any divisions or to start some artificial war on these things at this 60th anniversary. Nor will there be any organized, associated celebrations in the sense that we want to reduce or glorify events. The fact is that this year we are going to be 60 years old from things that we can look forward to, and also from things that we can't look forward to. In my interest, I think not only these governments, but all the parties represented in this House, all citizens and citizens of this country, are not being drawn to the future because of this we will have absolutely nothing. The government will propose to the National Assembly, including in part in this context on this anniversary, an amendment to the Law on State holidays and the work of the day off in this sense, in order to propose a special day to mark Slovenia's return to its homeland in all the years ahead, which is, of course, one of the undisputed achievements of national resistance against the occupying country. If this law, when proposed, is supported, it will be possible to mark this day as early as this year, and it is also partly part of the anniversary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Franz Kangler will be the last to ask the Prime Minister a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister! In the previous term, we witnessed a great centralisation. Personally, I've often felt bad in the coalition. 100 days of government is behind us. The government has recapitulated the inherited state. I come personally from a region where economic growth is low, unemployment - one of the highest levels. We have seen many times in the previous mandate that some individual entities from our region, which is at the very top of unemployment and the worst in economic growth, have gone through the various calls from the European Union funds that were most needed. According to the region from which I come - it has good logistics, it has Maribor Airport, it has a railway, it has a highway to Luka Koper. In the previous mandate, the government, under the Prime Minister Mr Ropa, decided to visit the various ends of Slovenia at the end of the mandate. You, as Prime Minister, have decided to make such a move at the beginning of your term of office. Last month, you visited with all the ministers of Prekmurje and took note of the problems that plague the region. So, Prime Minister, I ask you this: When do you intend to bring the government to Maribor with all the ministers, so that you can get to know all the current problems that are causing or affecting the ill-being of the people living in this region? What are the government's objectives and priorities to reduce these differences between regions and finally decentralisation throughout the Republic of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you for that question. The government will continue these visits to Slovenian provinces or regions. The purpose of these visits is to get to know some of the problems as much as possible at the beginning of the mandate and to finally get to know the people who are responsible for solving these problems among themselves. It is different to respond to some challenges that people who have to participate can also participate at some personal level if they are not only familiar with themselves through newspapers, cameras, or screens and telephones. The first experience we have with a visit to the Pomur region is positive, and the government is expected to visit one of these regions every month. We'll be in Maribor in May, I think on Wednesday, May 11, the visit is already being prepared. On this visit, we want to make sure that certain developmental backlogs can be addressed as quickly as possible. We are convinced that this region has significantly more real potential than have been exploited and integrated into development so far. One of these potentials has also been mentioned in the first question of Mr Pečet's Member of Parliament. Institutions that are doing well are not only responsible for themselves but for the overall economic development; these links have so far been insufficient. With this visit, we also want to encourage and enable people to live at least as well, regardless of whether they are in Ljubljana, Maribor or Murski Sobota or in any province. In part, these visits to various Slovenian regions or provinces at this time are also a broader preparation for regionalisation, with which the government actually thinks it will try in this mandate, whether the constitution will be amended or not, because we are still convinced that, with some good will of the province in Slovenia, it is possible to introduce the right approach so that this part of decentralisation will finally be achieved and we will not excuse constitutional restrictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Here you are, Mr Member, if you would like an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. Personally, I am very pleased that the government will take time in May to visit this region, which, as I said, is very small after economic growth and after unemployment at the summit in the Republic of Slovenia. I would therefore take the opportunity to give an initiative to the Prime Minister when he visits the city of Maribor to take the time and meet with all those who, in any way in the city of Maribor, work politically, for a brief discussion, whether they belong to the opposition or to the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u35	Well, this is part of or becomes part of a normal program of interviews that the whole government has. At the end of such visits, all those who can in any way influence the development of the region, regardless of political affiliation, from mayors, economists to carriers, Members, state councillors, in short, all those who have a responsibility to make development faster. And of course we will do that in Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. This concludes the questions raised to the Prime Minister. Some questions were raised at the previous meeting of the National Assembly to ministers who were not present and Members stated that they insist on an oral response in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure. So Dr. Dimitri Rupl asked Dr. Mark Pavliha about Italy’s intention to declare the ecological zone on the Adriatic. Mr. Minister, an oral response has been requested. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! In Slovenia, therefore, we believe that any activities and zones relating to the protection of the Mediterranean must be carried out in a coordinated and gradual manner, in a mutual agreement and with the agreement of all interested countries. This is also in line with the principles of international law and the legal order of the European Union. So in the Republic of Slovenia, we expect that the Republic of Italy will coordinate decisions as important as the protection of the Mediterranean with its neighbours in the spirit of European cooperation and in constructive dialogue, because only this can lead to the successful results of the protection of the sea, which is in the interest of all of us. The proposal of the Italian Organic Zone Act provides that the external borders of the zones shall be established in agreement with neighbouring countries. Also on the basis of the fact that Italy recognised the legacy of the agreement on the epicontinental band concluded by Italy and the SFRJ in 1968, Slovenia expects to be involved in discussions with the Italian side on the delimitation of any zones. We have also received such assurances from the Italian side. The Republic of Slovenia is already closely monitoring the progress of the procedure at the stage of the adoption of the law and to the maximum extent possible protects Slovenian interests. This is based on the fact that the Republic of Slovenia has a territorial exit to the open sea, its epicontinental belt and the right to declare its exclusive economic or ecological zone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you, Minister. Three questions were asked to the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Milan Beast. Mr Aleš Gulič raised a question regarding the Minister's visit to the Velenje municipality. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u39	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Gulič, as far as you know, I also visited the Municipality of Velenje during one of my first visits to Slovenian municipalities and schools, including in the morning one of the primary schools, branches and in the afternoon an inter-enterprise educational centre in Velenj. At this visit, as you can see for yourself, whether there has been genuine politicisation in terms of the boycott of some mayors of this region, the boycott of my visit, although it is not necessary in itself that local authorities are also present in the Minister's visit to a particular region; but, to date, the practice has shown that everywhere, except in this case, political factors, the local communities, if I may say so, have been pleased to attend these visits, where we have not only talked about the specific problems of schools, education, but also about the wider problems of the region and more or less, we have been pleased or satisfied with such talks. In this case, the reasons for the politicisation or boycott of this visit are not clear to me, but I regret that this has happened. I would like to point out once again that this has only happened in one case, although I have visited about 50 to 60 Slovenian municipalities so far, and nowhere has anything like this happened, but I do not attach such great importance to this politicization of my visit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you, Minister. Does Mr Gulic want an additional explanation? You have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. This is exactly what I wanted to point out, because you didn't ask me if I wanted any further explanation, and I think that the very nature of the question that I asked for for the first time, and then of course I didn't have a chance to hear the answer that I had this right. Of course, I did not want any further explanations about this particular case because I am satisfied with it at this time. But it is quite right that they have other colleagues, now of course they have remedied this mistake, but it is right to warn them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u42	I would like to ask that, in so far as the Member wishes, an additional explanation - no, the additional question is not provided under the Rules of Procedure anymore, but requires further explanation - that, to the extent that I forget to alert the Member to raise his own hand. Mr. Gulic, would you like an additional explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Milan Zver also asked Mr Ljubo Germič at his previous meeting, concerning the number of admissions to high school programmes for the next school year. Mr. Minister, an oral response has been requested. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. As you know, at the beginning of the year, the ministry lists the number of vacant chairs, teaching places in various secondary school programmes. This year, for the first time, we have slightly increased the number of vacancies in the field of vocational and secondary vocational education and a few fewer cities in the field of general secondary education. However, we would certainly not want the Ministry to try some violent measures, administrative measures fall into a rather asymmetric situation when entering secondary education. We all know that enrolling in high school programs is getting quite massive, which is unusual for the nature of this school, but I hope that in the years to come we will gradually eliminate this imbalance in a rather painful way with reform. It is just taking place in the first round of admissions to these high school programs, and it is interesting that without - as we all know - about 6,000 vacancies are awarded more than we have a child, students who are enrolled in secondary school programs, which means they have free choice and can really choose on the basis of their wishes. It is interesting, according to the first figures, which are not yet complete, official - this will be known in about two weeks' time - it seems that these trends of increasing enrolment in general secondary schools, especially in high school, have stopped and that the proportion of those enrolled in vocational schools has increased, which is also welcome because, last but not least, the European Union guidelines recommend the promotion of vocational education and, finally, the needs of the economy are such that they want a greater share of those programmes. I would like to point out once again that Slovenia has enough free entry places in secondary school to allow students and students to choose freely between different substances on the basis of their wishes, but that a school system responsible for the school system must also ensure that with promotion and other activities - not only a school system, but also, for example, an interdepartmental activity, including the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is strongly involved here, the Economic Chamber, the Centre for Vocational Education and other institutions - must respond responsibly and speed up, in particular, those orientations which are in some way deficiently represented in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you. Would you like some extra? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. If I am allowed, with this impression that you wanted to say, and also today's answer shows that you want to influence the relationship between general education and lower, secondary and vocational and technical education. Among other things, you stated that Slovenian society is not rich enough to be able to educate the unemployed. But when we look at the relationship between unemployed young people, we find that the largest share is in those who have a lower or secondary vocational education. That is why I am interested, Mr Minister, in whether you are not joining in the general assessment that when we are building a knowledge-based society, system-based arrangements should be built to raise the educational level of the population as a whole. In this regard, I ask: Does not the introduction of such rapid decisions for such movements somehow trigger the general education out of our school system, because Slovenia is known to be slightly behind the most developed students in general secondary school programmes? And so today I am asking you: How do you plan to achieve the relationship between those enrolled in high school and vocational schools, and what do you think this relationship is going to be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u47	The statement you mentioned referred to referred to the entire school vertical. This statement, which states that it is not good for society to reproduce unemployment in some way, given that significant asymmetry has also occurred in the field of tertiary education and that we have been educating certain profiles also at the tertiary level of education that are unemployable. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Minister responsible for education must respond to the fact that he would not reproduce unemployment. We all know about which social profiles are more or less involved. The fact is that a particular segment of the economy or of the labour market is empty and that the Slovenian economy needs the labour force of certain profiles, in particular those which we are talking about as deficits and where significant demand arises. What is the ideal relationship between general secondary education or high school and other secondary education is difficult to say. But the fact is, if we want to maintain high school as a classic, if I say so, a school to raise and educate some cognitive elites of the people, then we can say that by increasing enrolment in these programmes, the level or level, the quality is necessarily lower, falls. Even before I became Minister of Education, I have spoken or received a letter from the former Minister of Education that one of the key future reforms awaiting the school system is the reform of high school. And that's true. It is true that reform of high school is not the only reform taking place in the field of secondary education. We are here before an important reform of vocational secondary education. We can say that the reform is also going very well here with the introduction of a new system, a way of managing and financing secondary, vocational and vocational education that can grow into a universal system of finance in the field of secondary education. [[It's a "lumpsom" system.]] . And I think that, from the point of view of the state, this is a fairly rational, optimal system that we will continue in the future with this network and a new way of financing and managing secondary education. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you, Minister. Dr Mitja Slavinec asked Minister Milan Zver about the issue of less developed municipalities in co-financing preschool education. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you, too, for that question. This is a rather common question, which I have been asked practically on almost every visit to the field. In fact, local communities are strongly involved, particularly at the implementation level, in the pre-school education system. Here the system has been set up for the last six years by heavily burdening local communities with this original task. However, if we take a closer look at the reasons behind the conflict and friction between the state and local communities in the area of preschool education, it is important to say, however, that they stem from legislation that is not within the competence of the Ministry of Education and Sport, but rather from the Ministry of Finance. The law on the financing of municipalities is the responsibility of this Ministry and could be said to be strongly involved in this system of funding for municipalities is also a new Ministry of Finance, in fact a Ministry without a department responsible for local self-government and regional policy. We all know about it, and especially the mayors, how the appropriate spending system is defined. It is true that some municipalities, in particular the smaller ones, receive preschool education or the cost of preschool education, already represent almost 1/3 of the municipal budget, which strongly impedes the development of these municipalities, which also need to redirect other funds derived from so-called municipal taxes to maintain the preschool education system and cannot use them for their own development. How can we solve these problems? Of course, I am not called upon to answer these questions, but I think it would be good if this share, the appropriate spending for the congregations, would increase and there would be some adequate financial coverage for, say, the salaries of educators most controversial in this matter. We have also set up a special interdepartmental working group, consisting of representatives of the Slovenian Community, the Slovenian Communities, the Ministry of Finance, our Ministry and others, such as associations or associations of educators and principals, which will briefly try not only to analyse the policies of pre-school education, but also to find those systemic differences and conflicts or systemic inconsistencies that result in ongoing conflicts and tensions between local and national levels. On 1 March, this group was already operational and set itself quite extensive tasks. I am sure that we will find relatively quick solutions to the need for legal change, but once again, the main tensions in financing this activity do not stem from the area or from the systemic legislation in which my ministry would be native.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you, Minister. Does the Member of Parliament want an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Thank you for your word. I would like to know whether in your ministry you are considering a change in the way that the salaries of educators and educators will be financed directly by the Ministry, not directly through the municipality, as is the custom in all other forms of education in primary school, secondary school and not least in colleges, because we see no reason why preschool education should be financed directly through the municipalities, all other education or all other activities carried out under your ministry's branch so directly. On the other hand, if you are thinking in this direction, I am interested in when you expect such solutions, and at what time dynamics we can expect the relief of the municipalities, especially those that I have mentioned, which are the most burdensome due to the specifics and who would also need the most money for economic and other development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thanks for the extra question. It's true, it's one of the possibilities. If it were to be amended by law, we would have avoided a wide range of conflicts between local communities and the country, but would have left this solution to the previously appointed preschool policy-making council. I am counting on them to do relatively quickly a thorough analysis of the situation as well as proposals for solutions. I would virtually not object to such variants, not because it is much better than the current way where there are quite a lot of trends. But it is not necessarily that the pure form is the only way out of the created mystery and crisis. We can also find other options, intermediate routes, and in its own way, I would have preferred these minor corrections to the laws, where these imbalances would have been eliminated due to the excessive burden on local communities. I think it would be a short trip, but once again, I'm not warming up to any of these options right now. We will see what the conclusions of the appointed world will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Milan Beast. We are moving on to asking new questions to ministers. The first Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Drobnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! First of all, I am pleased that today, Minister Drobnic, you are present in the National Assembly. In the last month, we received an explanation in your absence that you were ill, and then on the same day you were seen in other places and other sessions. But now to the question. We were informed by the Union of United Fighters and participants in the National Liberation Fight that there were difficulties in financing their activities in 2005. In the 2005 and 2004 budgets adopted, funds have already been provided for their operation. So far, funding has been made by your ministry at the beginning of each year. Unfortunately, this year, Minister Drobnic wants to conclude a contract for substantially lower resources than mentioned in the already adopted budget for 2005 and only for a period of five months. In doing so, it should be stressed that we are celebrating the 60th anniversary of the victory over fascism and Nazism in May this year and that the organizations of the union of fighters do not have the means at this time to cover the most basic costs, such as the rental of premises. In a given situation, it is impossible to expect that, in the absence of funds, this year's anniversary will be dignified, so I ask you, Minister Drobnič, when will you respond to the initiative of the President of the Alliance of Hostages, at which point I would like to inform you of my work or the functioning of the fighting organisation and this year's programme? Second question: Do you intend to reduce the funds for the operation of the Rebalancing Union because you do not want to sign the 2005 contract in the planned amount in the budget? What are the reasons for this, however, because it is a veteran organisation and reduced resources can threaten their further development?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u57	Dear Member, thank you very much for asking me this question. First of all, when I was there. Of course I was sick. What then turned out to be conscience on television, if it did, was just old videos. Regarding our meeting with the President of the Union of Fighters, we agree on a cabinet or coordinate on the deadline. Let me say right now that I have a very large number of initiatives for meetings, among other things, there are 170 institutions within the Ministry that want to talk about the perspective, etc. It's just not possible to do everything. And there are many others, which have also been explained in public. I will find time for everything, and we will also find time for the President of the Union of Fighters to discuss the program and activities. In view of the activities carried out by the Ministry in reviewing the use of funds for 2004 and the 2005 programme of activities and the objectives it has under the Coalition Treaty, we have taken the same approach for all veteran organisations in concluding co-financing contracts for 2005 and for all of us for 5 months, given that we are expecting any changes in the budget, we can rise or otherwise. Taking into account the fact that organisations or societies have a decision on the status of society in the public interest, the Ministry has carried out a review of the fulfilment of the conditions that it fulfils every five years under a single regulation on the criteria for the award of the status of society in the public interest in a particular field. It is not possible to overlook the fact that agreements on co-financing of activities for 2004 were concluded with eleven companies or associations, namely, the Occupational Association of 1941 to 1945, Kranj, the Association of War Disabled Persons of NOB in Trieste, the Union of Korean Participants and Friends of Anti-Fascist Resistance, Celovec, the Association of Disabled Slovenian Wars Associations, the Society of Tigers, the Association of the United Fighters of NOB, the Union of Veterans of War for Slovenia, the Association of North, the Association of Mobilized Slovenians in the German Army 1941 - 1945, the Society of Evictions of 1941 - 1945 and the Association of War Disabled Persons of Slovenia. We have found from the data that there are no clearly defined criteria under which these companies are financed. We have also found very large differences in the receipt of funds, including the fact that some veteran organisations also have non-veterans on their list. From the contracts concluded following the co-financing of the activities of individual companies, the Ministry found in the review that individual companies or associations did not fulfil obligations under the contract within the time limit agreed in the contract, such as quarterly, semi-annual and annual reports on the use of funds for 2004 and the work programme and the financial plan for 2005. This does not apply to all companies, but it is necessary to review the accession of new post-cofinancing contracts. That review of compliance with contractual obligations also requires a certain period of time. Following the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005, the Ministry will join the conclusion of the Annexes to the 2005 Treaties. We also clearly intend to set out the criteria for how many veterans there are, that certain veterans, for example, would not be neglected in any way. There is no reason for, say, veterans of war for Slovenia to receive four times less resources, even though they are numerically the same as some others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I regret to say that I will be very specific, or I will look at the magnetogram later, but at the February meeting of the National Assembly regarding your absence, it is Tuesday, the second day of our meeting, when I was repeatedly explained by the President of the National Assembly that you are sick. On the same day or the next morning in Del there was news, and on the evening in the media a press conference, which you referred to on Tuesday, also noted that on Tuesday an economic social council was convened, which even you should have led. So it would be very good to come to this truth, to come to this truth on a day, because there is a bad feeling in us that you did not place the national assembly among the top priority of those meetings that would give them more attention than others. With regard to the other part of the answer, I would like to say that I welcome, I hope that you will meet with the fighters as soon as possible and, of course, you will find the time as soon as possible, because otherwise it may be dangerous for this organisation, but above all I think it may be very inappropriate if this meeting does not happen as soon as possible, because otherwise, in fact, the May events and the markings of victory over fascism and Nazism, where they will certainly participate actively, may be at risk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Aurelio Juri will raise the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u61	Dear Mr. Secretary. First of all, I welcome the fact that for a long time there have been no visits to our waters, to nuclear-weapon ships on board, and I wonder, to whom is it to be credited, or to our government, that these visits do not come, or perhaps to the other side, because it is uninterested or has no time? With regard to nuclear weapons, another issue is more important. Around nuclear weapons, we can say that with recent stories on the international script, on the international chess site of North Korea and Iran, these weapons have entered some new worrying spiral path of proliferation. That is also what I consider to be the inadequate responses of other nuclear giants. I ask: How does the Slovenian government view this dangerous phenomenon? Does it lead, where and how, to what activities? Has it ever, how and where, within NATO or directly to the United States of America, reacted to the disclosure of the situation that the entire concentration of American nuclear horsepower - there are several dozen - among the 480, as far as they are located in Europe, right at our border, in the nearby NATO air base in Avian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u63	Mr President, honourable Member. Thank you for your question. Clearly, NATO's nuclear forces are an integral part of the entire Allied force. The 1999 Strategic Concept of the North Atlantic Alliance defined this alliance as, as it is called, a credible and credible nuclear policy that will demonstrate solidarity and commitment to conflict prevention. In order to ensure this, there is a need for the wide involvement of European allies in joint useful planning for the peaceful storage of nuclear weapons and for nuclear policy operations. The nuclear forces in Europe are also one of the key elements of the defence and political integration of the Alliance. In addition to the United States, the nuclear capabilities of the United Kingdom and France are also on the soil of Europe. Their nuclear forces, like the Allied forces, have a deterrent function, which all together strengthens the security of members of the North Atlantic Union. The solidarity and unity of the views of the members of NATO on the strategic importance of nuclear weapons for the security of the Alliance is also reflected in the sharing of applications, the taking of risks and the responsibilities of individual allied countries. In order to ensure the safety of all members of NATO, some allied countries have taken over the burden of nuclear weapons storage. In this context, we understand the burden of these countries as the greatest expression of solidarity with the other members of this alliance. Since 1991 - I would like to stress this in particular - to date, NATO has reduced nuclear potential by more than 85% [[you can see about this in the relevant documents, some of them you know or have mentioned, even on the Internet is something like this]] . About where nuclear weapons are located and how much they are, our ministry cannot make statements because they are data with a certain degree of secrecy in order to ensure that these weapons are protected as effectively as possible. However, we can assure you that the highest safety standards are provided to protect Nate's nuclear weapons, as well as full control over compliance with these standards, in which all the allied countries participate. Slovenia, as a member of NATO, in terms of common defence policy and solidarity in relation to the nuclear policy of the Alliance, naturally assumes its share of responsibility. For us as a new member, then three "no" are: no, then there are no reasons or plans to install nuclear weapons in the territory of the new members. Slovenia, as a member of NATO, participates in the Nuclear Planning Group and its subgroups. In these working bodies, it shall act equally on the nuclear policy of the Alliance, on its control and on ensuring the conditions for the safety of nuclear capabilities. In this respect, Slovenia is defined as a member of the Alliance as a nuclear policy every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you, Minister. Mr Miro Petak will next raise the question of the question to the Minister of Justice, Dr Šturm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respectable all present, respected Mr. Dr. Sturm, to whom I refer this question! The law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation provided in Article 153 of the 1997 paper for a security guard that a word would not appear among the buyers of the property in bankruptcy that could in any way contribute to the bankruptcy of an undertaking. Therefore, it is also expressly stated that the buyers of the insolvency property cannot be a natural person who, in the last five years prior to the start of the bankruptcy procedure, has been employed by or served as an economic operator, a member of the administration, a member of the supervisory board and so on. However, for Tro Prevalje in bankruptcy, there is a dilemma for the company since the beginning of the bankruptcy and sale of the company, as well as today, whether it was a sophisticated scenario in this case, how to bankrupt the company and then buy it back. The owners of the Prevention Tro project, which purchased Tro's assets in bankruptcy, are also former members of the Supervisory Board and former CEO of Tro. Prevent Tro because of all these facts could not be among the buyers of the assets of Tro d.d. In bankruptcy, but at a public auction, the co-owners of Gorazd Fala, as a former member of the Supervisory Board, and Jože Golob, as former director of Tro Prevalje, submitted statements that there is no circumstance under Article 153. The statements were certified by the notary who, on the same day, compiled a notary record, stating that they both transfer the business share free of charge to other persons. This statement and notary record satisfied Tro Milan Kos’s bankruptcy manager that Tro d.d.’s assets were sufficient. In bankruptcy, he sold to Prevent Tro, although it was not possible to understand in the Court Registry after five years that such ownership changes and the transfer of shares had actually occurred. However, the Law on the Registry clearly states that registration for registration is necessary within 15 days, I stress within 15 days of the completion of the conditions for registration in the Register of Justice, the same shall apply to the application of an amendment to the Register. Of course, it is not difficult to figure out why they avoided it. I'm asking the minister. Are you familiar with this case? What measures will the Ministry take in the future to prevent such acts of law and public ridicule from occurring in the rule of law? Was there any official supervision of the work of the district court in Slovenj Gradc and the bankruptcy manager by the Ministry in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. Commissioner Miro Petek cites several cases of irregularities related to Tro and mentions the criminal charges filed against the responsible persons. He asked whether the Minister was aware of the Ministry's action to stop such irregularities, whether the official supervision of the work of the district court in Slovenj Gradc and the bankruptcy administrator would be carried out, how to remedy the injustices by losing their employment due to the bankruptcy of Tro. The Member also mentions the bankruptcy of Kograd, Buildingnik Prevalje, where the bankruptcy manager Abrim Puslim loaned Pompe the money while the employees did not get their claims paid in full. The Member asks whether the offences will finally be the responsibility of those who belong to the judiciary or who are granted all-round immunity. The Head of the District Attorney's Office in Slovenj Gradec submitted a report on the company Tro, which shows the individual judicial and prosecutor's decisions. In this regard, it must be said that the Ministry of Justice must not intervene in order to justify individual judicial decisions. Pursuant to Article 134 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, no one participating in the trial may be called to account for the opinion given in the decision in court. While Article 6 of the Judicial Service Act provides that a judge may not be charged with a disciplinary court for the judgment he gave in court. In addition, the Ministry of Justice is part of the executive branch, so it must not interfere with the court's substantive decision, as it would interfere with the independence of the judge in its decision-making, which would be contrary to the other principle of the division of power. The Ministry of Justice can only refer to the Institute of Supervisory Complaints when it comes to an unwarranted long resolution of the matter. The bankruptcy manager must not have partial resources acquired under the bankruptcy procedure, as this would favour certain creditors. As regards the operations of the bankruptcy managers, let us mention that, in accordance with Article 75 of the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation, the President of the bankruptcy chamber must supervise the operations of the bankruptcy manager. Article 75 of the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation provides that the President, as I have already mentioned, must supervise the operations of the bankruptcy manager. However, in accordance with paragraph 79b of Article 79b of the Law on Judicial Service to the President of the Supreme Court in Maribor, the Ministry of Justice has proposed that it carry out official controls to determine whether the Presidents of the insolvency chambers have supervised the operations of the bankruptcy managers with due diligence. The Ministry of Justice also proposed in the case of the bankruptcy debtor SGP Kograd, Dravograd, in accordance with paragraph 79b of Article 79b of the Judicial Service Act to the President of the Supreme Court in Maribor, that it should carry out official controls to determine whether the President of the insolvency court supervised the operations of the bankruptcy managers with due diligence.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you, Minister. Mr Marko Pavliha will raise the question of a letter to the Minister of Justice, Dr Šturm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ministers! Mr. Secretary Dr. Sturm! Your answer to Ambassador Friday is in fact the ideal point for my question. We all know what happened at the February session when Dr. Shkrkov was not voted a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. At first glance, there is nothing so wrong as Members are completely free to make decisions and we are not bound by any influence. However, what is of course worrying and what has happened for the first time in the history of Slovenian parliamentary democracy, as well as the wider part of Europe, is of course why this election has not taken place. Dr. Skrkov was not elected for decision in a specific case for which she should not be punished. It is a grave breach in the principle of the independence of judges and, of course, a grave violation of the right of individuals to decide on their cases impartially. A specific case was condemned by both the President of the Constitutional Court and the President of the Slovenian Judicial Society, as well as by a number of experts, and, if I may quote, the Minister of Justice turned to judicial silence."which is so much more surprising because it is a legal expert because it is an ex-constitutional judge and, last but not least, a creator of the current Slovenian constitutional regime. Let me read you two quotes from publicist. The first is in the preamble to the Legal Practice: "It is difficult to believe that after the second decade of education in parliamentary democracy, the division of power between the legislative, enforcement and court, which, with elected representatives of the people, may still come to the thought that it will be possible to descend on slippery ground into the independence and independence of the Constitutional Court." The President of the Slovenian Judicial Society points out, among other things, the inadequacy of the Slovenian regime for the appointment of judges. Only Switzerland and Macedonia know the election of judges in Parliament. I ask the Minister: How do you comment on the Shkrk case? How do you feel about the current constitutional arrangements for the election of judges? Do you not believe that, due to the prevention of political influence, it would be advisable to introduce a method of appointment known to other developed countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Thank you, honourable Member, for the question raised. The honourable Member first touches on the Minister's behaviour or non-regulation as regards the case in question. In view of this, let me just say that it is my belief that any minister of this government is not competent to comment on the behaviour of the members of the national assembly in any way, nor is it competent to intervene in the conduct of the judiciary. Given the constitutional principle of the separation of power, this is not a topic which the executive branch is supposed to devote to such a statement, so of course I do not believe that the Ministry of Justice has a basis for commenting, much more so because very convincing factors have been raised on this issue, only the Constitutional Court and the Slovenian judiciary. I think that this question has been clarified in this respect. With regard to the way in which judges are elected, it should be said that this issue was raised in the previous term in the Constitutional Commission, that the Constitutional Commission did not foresee in the Slovenian Constitution that there were opinions on this subject in the Slovenian legal doctrine. This has not led to a change of constitution. I agree, however, that it would suggest considering a new way of appointing judges to those positions that are not directly linked to the election of judges in Slovenia, either judges in the courts or judges in the Constitutional Court. It is about running for various places in international courts or only in international commissions. In this case, he is a Slovenian legislator, not a constitutionalist, but the legislator has chosen a very difficult path because all these appointments are bound in the same way as the appointments and elections of the judges of the Constitutional Court. Here, however, I join the opinion of the honourable Member that such a position is very difficult, especially because in many cases it is necessary to react very quickly and put forward my candidates. However, the current legal system, which regulates this, is such that, among other things, it can allow for the abuse of procedural rights, thereby extending deadlines even within half a year or a year. That is why it makes no sense, and I am convinced that in these cases this role could be done by other authorities, such as the President of the Republic or the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Just for a little bit about the first thing. I ask the Minister whether it is also a matter of intertwining the executive and legislative authority, or vice versa, to interfere with the enforcement authority in legislative cases where, for example, the Council of Justice proposes one or even two candidates for the President of a particular court, and then the Minister decides otherwise, even differently, depending on the professional criteria. I have been a member of the Judicial Council for five years myself, and I can tell you that this has often happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. In this case, it is a special institution of the Council of Justice, which is indeed a constitutional category, but it proposes judges for election, and the Minister of Justice does not have an election function, nor does it have an amendment function. This role is transmitted directly by the Council of Justice to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you, Minister. Mr Bojan Kontič will raise the question of a Member State to the Minister for the Economy, Mag. Visionary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, Prime Minister General, and all the ministers present in the Assembly Hall! In Velenje Coal they ended up getting lignite in the Skala Cave. Prior to the press conference, the Coal Management announced difficulties in gradually closing the Skala Cave in connection with the lack of funding for this purpose. As far as I am aware, you, Minister, were also briefed on this at your Friday visit to Velenje: Unlike the visits attended by the Prime Minister, that is, the members of the opposition at these meetings are not invited, at least I can say this to myself. And if I understood the first one, the school that went into the church premises, I'd understand that, and this time I was a little bit surprised. Mr. Minister, I ask you: Have you examined my initiative which I addressed to you a while ago and suggested that you consider the possibility of drafting a law on the gradual closure of the Skala cave within the Velenje Coal Mine System? In addition to the closure programme, this law would also set the level of funds for the implementation of the Gradual Closure Programme. In doing so, it is also necessary to provide for resources for the development restructuring of the Silesia Valley in response to the consequences of mining in this area over the past period. I ask you: How far is the preparation of this law?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. As early as 2000, Coal Velenje developed a programme to close the Škala Cave, which was partially implemented in the substantive part, but never came to life from the point of view of the provision, and especially for the purposes of the Skala Cave, the necessary additional financial resources. To date, all the activities carried out during this period have incurred exclusively the cost of producing Velenje coal. The preparation of the Act on the gradual closure of the Skala Cave should take into account the fact that the current European Union rules on State aid for coal miners do not allow such aid, but it is not possible to ignore any exceptional treatment. The Council Regulation of 23 July 2002 on State aid for coal lays down in detail the rules on granting State aid for coal to contribute to the restructuring of coal. It takes into account the social and regional aspects of the restructuring of the sector and the need for conservation as a priority measure the mineral amount of domestic coal production that ensures access to stocks. Aid may also be granted as aid to reduce production by 31.12.2007 to cover current production losses under certain conditions. Member States intending to grant aid for the reduction of activities shall submit to the Commission a plan for the closure of the production units concerned by 31.10.2002 at the latest. In fact, it is very clear how active they have been so far in solving this problem and how the previous governments have reacted to this problem. The closure cannot be covered on the basis of environmental rules, as they provide that the polluter is known and must also pay for the recovery. In the area of mining, some provisions of the Mining Act are also applicable in the context of abandonment. The law provides that the concession act is the basis for granting mining rights. In accordance with this Article, the obligation of the holder of the mining right to remedy, re-enactment of the establishment of a new or alternative state of the environment must also be specified or set out in this Act. The holder of mining rights shall cover all costs of repairing damage resulting from the implementation of mining works. In order to remedy the land, the holder of the mining right from each unit of the mineral raw material produced shall, on a monthly basis, allocate funds for the partial or total rehabilitation of the land, as provided for in the concession contract, to a special account or to a mining fund. In fact, the provisions and rules of the European Community in granting State aid for coal to this area are very restrictive and, of course, it is with a time limit which is also sadly missed on this day. Of course, as a competent minister, or under whose authority this right belongs, I am susceptible to all initiatives and proposals that would, on the one hand, be in favour of this sector and, of course, in accordance with EU rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister of History for closing the Skala Cave. I know this matter, and even with activities in the past, I have not been most pleased. It is true, however, that the management of the coal mine in the past did not expose these problems to the extent that it is doing so now. In this case, it is not State aid, but it is the owner, which is in this case a State, who owns Velenje, to remedy the damage and consequences that have occurred in the past. It is true that the law has defined all activities since the adoption of the law and, in return, the accounts are not completely clean. I am pleased that you are inclined to see things resolved and that you will listen to every initiative in this area. But that is precisely why my initiative has been addressed to you to approach the drafting of the necessary law and to make it possible to restructure the valley. The simple question is: Have you examined this initiative and decided to prepare this law or not? Are we just going to stay at this rhetorical level when we say we don't see problems and we take initiatives and we don't do anything?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Conticy. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u83	I don't know, obviously the Member didn't listen to me, even in response. I was very specific and I gave him a very specific answer to his question. We have examined the initiative and found that it is actually an award, that is State aid and that we are obliged to comply with the EU rules in force, so we have also assessed that, according to these rules, it is in fact extremely difficult or, in fact, I do not see the way in which it has already been delayed, because unfortunately it has been delayed here, because by 31 October, Member States intending to grant aid for the reduction of activities should have submitted to the Commission a plan to close the production units concerned. That wasn't done. As a matter of fact, any granting of state aid is a signal to us, if you see the way that it is in accordance with European Union rules, to approach. We have studied this ourselves, unfortunately, we have not provided a way, if you see it, we are susceptible to initiatives. More specifically, I can't respond to what I said. But it's a big question why you're late. I don't know if you were paying attention to this at the time, but that wasn't the problem at the time. But I think that's the problem. Once again, with regard to the concession act, the State, as the owner of the concession act, has granted mining rights and all obligations stem from the Mining Act and from the mining rights granted to Velenje.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Maria Possonec will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. I'm asking Janez the next question. Farmers who have paid contributions for the fourth category of pension and disability insurance are now receiving extremely low pensions. They also do not receive a protective supplement, a supply company, nor a regression. It's really a very low amount that's not enough to survive. Given that an amendment to the law on pension and disability insurance is being prepared, I wonder whether these changes will also apply to farmers and their pensions. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mag. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u87	First of all, thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. Under the rules on pension and disability insurance, farmers have been able to protect themselves against a narrower scope of rights since 1983. If they voluntarily opted for such a form of compulsory insurance, they were charged with contributions from a base lower than the lowest pension base for a pension. By this choice, they agreed to be granted only the right to old age, family or invalid pension from pension insurance, but not the right to a pension from the minimum pension base, the right to a pension allowance, the right to an allowance for assistance and service, except in the case of blindness, the right to a disability pension for a physical disability and the right to an allowance for recreation. In accordance with their choice, farmers were granted only those pension insurance rights for which they were insured after meeting the conditions. Farmers who paid lower contributions and were insured only for the purpose of obtaining a pension require that they also be granted additional pension and disability benefits for which they did not pay contributions. In terms of insurance, their claims are not justified as they receive all the rights for which they are insured. They cannot therefore obtain the same rights as other farmers or private persons who have paid substantially higher contributions to pension and disability insurance. We will examine these proposals in the light of future legislation and try to find an appropriate solution. However, solidarity has already been taken into account in the current law. Therefore, insurers who have been protected by a lower level of rights, less than half the entire period, of insurance periods, also acquire these rights, even if they have not been fully insured, may exercise all these additional rights. Also, regardless of the duration of the pension period and the level of the base from which the contributions were paid, the pension cannot be measured below 34,911; however, it is indeed low but not lower. Minimum social security for farmers is ensured by this. However, those who do not have any other income other than this minimum pension are guaranteed a higher level of social security under the Social Protection Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you, Minister. Mr Milan Petek will ask the Minister of Economy of Magi a question. Visionary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u89	President, thank you for your word. I am referring to the issue of holding the Slovenian power plant, which we know today is the largest electricity supplier in Slovenia. It brings together 10 companies, employs 5,000 people and is a large part of these companies from the end of Styria. That is why I am asking this question. At the time of setting up, all those who monitored the establishment remember the heated debate about the seat of the new company. Part of the public, especially the professional, was then committed to being the head office of the company in Maribor. This is due mainly to the fact that Maribor was the seat of the Slovenian electricity industry for many years with great experience in the construction and management of hydroelectric power plants, as well as with a number of intelligence both economic and technical professions. Unfortunately, that's when the government decided to head in Ljubljana. During that period, history remembers some of the efforts of the current Members, who are now in the coalition, at the time they were in the opposition, who also collected 52 signatures from Members. To illustrate then, Mr Jerovšek and Mr Pukšič, together with the help of Mr Kangler and Mr Sok, even organized a forum or consultation in Maribor entitled How to defend complete centralisation. There were some juicy remarks at this meeting, and I will quote only one quote: "In the Drava Valley in Maribor, black flags could hang on half a drug. The last capital fortress in Maribor fell by the government's decision to be the seat of the holding company in Ljubljana. The capital to be created by the Drava Power Plants will be decided by people from Ljubljana. I have a feeling it's been a robbery for centuries in the Drava Valley in Maribor." This is a quote from one of the Members. Mr. Minister, since then, four years ago, a large part of the then opposition, now a government coalition, really tried to have a holding seat in Maribor, I wonder: Is the situation so changed that the government is willing to move this company to Maribor? In my opinion, only by making such a move and such a move will your assurances become credible, as well as by ensuring that other representatives of government parties will the establishment of the headquarters of certain state institutions and state-owned enterprises also take place in this mandate outside the capital of Slovenia. If the answer to the question is negative, of course I am interested in your arguments for such a decision. At the same time, I am also interested in whether the government is planning to move to one of the cities outside Ljubljana to separate the distribution and marketing activity. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I am pleased, in fact, that you are critical of your own party and of the decisions of the previous government regarding the head office of the holding company in Maribor. It is true that this current government has a different approach and has also written down that there will be a creation, I stress the word, the establishment of the headquarters of certain state institutions and state-owned enterprises outside our country's capital. I think that's right. In moving, the issue must also be assessed in light of the positive and negative effects of resettlement. I think she also warned those round tables, which were then in Maribor, that the capital to be created by the Drava Power Plants should be decided by people from Ljubljana, that certain solutions had been reached and that in fact the management of the holding company was composed of three people: one from Maribor, one from the Sheleška Valley and one from Posavje. This is said, from the provinces where the most energy is also generated. That is also the case, and that is why it is sitting in the administration and capital, so it is not someone from Ljubljana who decides, but people from regions where energy is also created and I think it is also. As far as the move and the arguments against it are concerned. In fact, I am pointing out that holding is a Slovenian company and not a Ljubljana company, although it is based in Ljubljana. It is very important that the company is successful. And according to the operation we are monitoring, the company is successful, and I think that in the operation of this company, because it is now concluding a four-year mandate, a good new-made group has been formed. Of course, there is a great question as to whether this group would be such as it is or would not have broken up at the time of the move. It is worth noting that the electricity market in Slovenia is opening up, that, in fact, foreign electricity providers also have a great deal of interest in the "know-have" workforce. In the event of the break-up of such a newly formed group, there is also a great danger that, of course, a large number of people would leave because of the relocation of this group, and in some ways could also potentially cause damage to the holding company or all the companies that the holding company combines. So I think it's hard to fix the mistakes that were made four years ago and to move to a holding company because of the move. If there are professional, economic reasons for this, I will be happy to listen to it, but I do not actually see them at the moment when your questions are being analyzed. Second. However, it is very important that you mention the seat of the newly created distribution or holding company of the Slovenian distribution. In fact, the government has to separate, in fact, the separation of distribution companies from market work, which relates to distribution itself, because now it is so hot in one company and in one company and then it seems to me, and it will be very soon, because this will need to be systematically regulated in a short time, but the proposal is that the seat of the Slovenian electricity company should be examined in this professional sense, and if the reasons, as you say, were previously on Maribor's side, I will be happy to support such a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you, Minister. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will ask the Minister of Justice, Dr Sturm. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The fact is that in Slovenia the judiciary has not worked as well as everyone would have wanted since the very beginning of Slovenia's state. Judges, the courts are drowning in judicial backlogs so that many important cases are obsolete due to such and other procedural errors. Today they're walking, I'll say, across our country, people who apparently could be claimed to deserve to be convicted. It is also true that Slovenia is according to the latest figures at the summit of the countries of the European Union where so-called returnees occur. These are unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, facts. Partly, we can also call him the biggest culprit for such a confusing situation in the Slovenian judiciary, it is certainly the permanent mandate of our judges, which is nothing more than one great privilege. Such a great privilege that neither the President nor the President of the State has. The permanent term of office is also a major culprit for judicial backlogs, since judges can easily take their time because they are not in any hurry for their term of office. And lastly, if this time were to be at least partially useful, used, but, as we have seen, many backlogs, many cases fall due to procedural errors in the trial, even at this time do not use it as necessary. To this, we can say that the catastrophic situation in the Slovenian judiciary is also being warned by the European Union. Perhaps Mr Minister also recalls the so-called "twinning" project in 2003, which was intended for the Slovenian judiciary and where Slovenia was, I will say, compared to one comparable region in the European Union and the findings of this project are to our Members, I hope that we are all familiar. The first such finding was the judicial effectiveness of 1 to 3 for one comparable region in the European Union in the field of civil law, in the field of criminal law 1 to 8. Salaries in Slovenia of Slovenian judges were satisfactory and higher than in this region. Better personnel and spatial equipment of Slovenian courts. All this data shows that something is actually wrong with Slovenian judges and not with the courts. The National Assembly has met with the problem of a permanent judicial mandate many times, a hand on the heart, particularly at the initiative of the Slovenian National Party, and we also know that on 21 May 2001 the National Assembly adopted a decision which reads as follows: "The mandate of the judge elected to the judicial service lasts 8 years, with the work of the judge being checked every two years. After the expiry of the term of office, the judge may run again for judicial service." Such a decision was confirmed by some Members of the now ruling coalition. I wonder if the government's position on a permanent judicial mandate remains the same. [[It is said that it should be phased out in Slovenia as a privilege]] ? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Sturm, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you, honourable Member, for the question. The question of judicial backlogs is certainly one of the more difficult cases to deal with, among other things, the Ministry of Justice, although the key responsibility for reducing judicial backlogs does not lie with the executive authority and does not bear the Ministry of Justice, but is borne primarily by the courts themselves. However, if we are referring to the courts, let us say that these are, in addition to the judges, all the other co-workers, it is said, all the other professional staff working in the courts. Therefore, in the framework of the courts they are responsible for reducing the judicial backlogs of judges and other judicial staff, under the appropriate leadership and direction of the Presidents of the Courts. It is only the Ministry of Justice in this area that examines the cases of other countries where they have also faced this issue and have successfully addressed it. In the Netherlands, for example, where they were able to reduce judicial backlogs in the 12 years with the planned work and the planned project. After choosing one of the models to reduce judicial backlogs, which will prove successful, of course it will also be able to approach concreteisation. For the time being, based on the comparative studies we have already done at the Ministry of Justice, we estimate that solutions will be sought within the Netherlands and the Federal Republic of Germany, and in part Austria. Among the means of reducing judicial backlogs, in particular, we are considering the following options: resolving disputes in the context of alternative dispute resolution, then accelerating court information, which has already yielded very good results, and introducing judicial management and as much administrative work as possible should come from the judges over the personality of the court. The second question of the honourable Member was about the abolition of a permanent judicial mandate. The termination of a permanent judicial mandate does not have a direct impact on the reduction of judicial arrears. The permanent term of office is one of the guarantees for the independence of the judge and, at the moment, the constitutional category. Let me add that the public sometimes mistakenly thinks that judges, because they have a permanent mandate, are untouchable and that, irrespective of their mistakes, they always belong to the service for an indefinite period of time. This is not entirely true, for it is possible for a judge to be deprived of a bad part of his mandate, even in two ways in a disciplinary procedure or for a double negative assessment of the judge’s service.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to have an additional reply regarding the permanent judicial mandate and by mentioning the culprit or one of the culprits for judicial backlogs in the Republic of Slovenia. Among other things, you mentioned the composition of the courts and gave us a model of Germany and the Netherlands. Before I spoke about the "twinning" project, you know, Slovenia was then compared to a comparable German region. They found that the composition of staff in Slovenian courts is better than in this region, although the courts in this region are more effective. So much for that. One of the ways you've gone about solving judicial backlogs is, in my opinion, the abolition that we're going to be dealing with in this session. I'm not saying it's one of the ways to reduce a few judicial setbacks in our courts. However, mentioning a permanent judicial mandate as an option of independence, at least in our opinion, is still the main culprit for the backlog. Judges simply take time, even though they make terrible mistakes in their trials. We can all get that through the media. And I don't believe a permanent court term is a constitutional category. Whether it should be abolished or not was also voted on by the Members - here I have a vote on - from the government coalition that today is forming a government. I wonder whether this government is preparing a change of constitution in this area or not, or whether the position of the government or the Members of Parliament who make up this government has changed in these years? That's my very specific question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u98	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you. Well, I cannot comment on the statements you have made, honourable Member. The government has not yet dealt with changes to the Constitution, so that I cannot convey the government's position in this regard. My personal position on this is well known, namely, that I am not impressed by the interference with the change in the Slovenian Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u100	Mr Aloise Sok will raise the question to the Minister of Public Administration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister of Public Administration, my question will be very brief. On this issue, however, I was encouraged by the record in the local media, which covers the area from which I come. The subtitle reads: "The Slovenian government has given up the good 900 million dollars in Phare's pre-accession assistance programme to build the international border crossing of Gruškova." In view of the fact that this border crossing will be opened, as it says, by the end of March this year or early in April, this article is based on the fact that the current government has actually given up this money and that it will provide this money from the Slovenian budget. And I ask you, how did this invitation go? Did it actually happen, and if it did, why did it happen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Sok, Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, the construction of the border crossing of Gruškova was included in the envisaged co-financing by the European Union under the Phare programme and a public tender was actually launched for the selection of the operator. The Slovenian Evaluation Commission has prepared a report on the most favourable bidder. Then it was that the European Commission delegation in Ljubljana rejected this report in July 2004 for two reasons. First, that information should be allegedly disclosed at a time when no formal selection decisions have yet been made, disclosure of information on the course of the procedure. Secondly, due to the alleged unequal treatment of tenderers in this tender. The delegation requested the cancellation and repetition of this invitation to tender. The renewal of the invitation to tender did not take place, but a contract was concluded with the selected contractor, the construction company Primorje. In this way, the project fell out of the co-financing plan and actually there was a drop in funds at the level you mentioned, so this money from the Phare programme will not come for this project. I learned about the matter relatively soon after I took office, and since it was a large sum, I gave her special attention. I have assessed that if there has been a mistake on the Slovenian side, it is necessary to act against those responsible for this error. That is why I took a lot of time on this matter and personally reviewed all the documentation and requested answers to all the key questions, especially questions whether the European Commission's delegation's observations hold or not. I must say that I have received documented answers from the professional services to all the questions, so I will not give an assessment based on mere oral answers, but I have also requested an appropriate document for each answer, and I can assess from the previous data that there has been no error on the Slovenian page. This is because, according to the documentation, the evidence of unequal treatment of tenderers is unfounded. Indeed, the tender offering a lower price was eliminated due to strict tendering conditions in the tender documentation prepared in accordance with the European Commission's handbook and this tender documentation was also confirmed by the European Commission. For the successful tenderer, the delegation considered or claimed that it should also be excluded for the same reason, I personally looked at the documents contained in the offer and saw that this provider actually fulfilled the formal conditions. As regards disclosure of information, however, it is clear that this disclosure of information is based on the information on the call of a staff member from one of the tenderers to the European Commission delegation. I myself assess that the facts and evidence do not speak in favour of the fact that it is on the Slovenian side, of course, I am talking about the developments during the mandate of the previous government, and there has been a mistake which would require action against certain employees. At the time when the delegation requested a re-examination of the invitation to tender, it was for July 2004, which means that the time until the end of the year when the Phare financial memorandum was due to expire did not allow for a recurrence of this invitation to tender, which means that it would be pointless to repeat the invitation to tender. Now, of course, the government will try to resolve the resulting failure or replace it with another source, by trying to finance it from the so-called Schengen resource. This is possible if the project were financed from the Phare programme, this would not be possible because these two sources of funding are being excluded. And that's how it's going to be achieved. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I conclude - or obtain funds for that first part of the project, this is for a floor arrangement or so-called zero quota, from a scenic source. [[...]] And, of course, we will make every effort to reach these European funds. I will continue to use the discussion with the delegation of the European Commission, and I will change my position only on the basis of facts and evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u104	Would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u105	Then 900 million was the difference between the lowest and the highest offer, or why 900 million?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u106	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u107	900 million planned co-financing from the Phare project, which was actually lost for Slovenia. That's where it's coming from. The difference between the selected and the excluded tenderer was 5%. I think it was 300 million Slovenian tolars, but I am not quite sure about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič will raise a question for the Minister of Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u109	Dear President, distinguished Minister Vasko Simoniti, colleagues, colleagues! One of the most famous Slovenian multicultural groups in Laibach, the Government or the Ministry of Culture, has reduced the funding already provided under the NSK Treaty. In 2004, the former Minister of Culture granted funding to the NSK or Laibach Group in the amount of 5 million Slovenian tolls per year for a three-year period. They got it last year. This year, this year, it went down. In the full range of these three-year funding support programmes for cultural programme operators in the field of performance, music, visual and intermediation art and literature, Minister Vasko Simoniti alone reduced financial support to only 1 million tolars, which is why Laibach has already filed an action against the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia against the administrative court of the Republic of Slovenia through the Bar of Cheferin. I wonder: What were the substantive reasons for the reduction of funds? On what basis did you decide on the legal basis and on the substance of the concerns on which you decided to take such an unusual measure, to say the least, during the already ongoing funding period, despite the fact that the Laibach Group has met more than 100% of its contractual obligations in the past year and in the last period and has presented Slovenia in the world with even greater excellence? Of course, many other groups were involved in their promotion in last year's tour. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Simonita, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Aleš Gulič, I thank you for the question and explain the following to you. In the framework of the NSK's information programme, the Laibach Group applied for a public call for the selection of public cultural programme providers in the field of art and book, and the subject of the call was the co-financing of motivational programme providers in 2004-2006. In accordance with the rules of the Ministry of Culture, the Laibach Group’s three-year programme was discussed by the Music Arts Commission, which it rejected at first reading. In response to the opinion of the expert commission, this group further substantiated the programme and the expert committee changed its decision on the basis of the new facts submitted and proposed to the current Minister of Culture to co-finance the group's programme of one million tolars per calendar year. The Minister of the opinion of the expert committee did not take into account and decided to increase the funding for the programme from the proposed million to 5 million. The NSK info thus concluded a programming contract defining the Ministry's co-financing of 5 million in 2004. In accordance with the tendering conditions, however, the indicative volume of the appropriations for 2005 and 2006 has been established and the contract with the contractor has clearly stated that the final amount of the appropriations for 2005 and 2006 will be fixed annually and that the amount will be determined in the appendix to that contract. The supplement is to be concluded on the basis of a call from the Ministry to the contractor for each year. In accordance with the terms of the tender and the contractual arrangements, the Ministry of the Contractor called for a precise definition of the scope of the programme in 2005. The proposed programme was addressed by the Commission on Music Arts, which, in terms of quality, evaluated both at first reading and proposed co-financing at the original proposed level of one million tolars. In the opinion of the expert committee, which, although proposed by my predecessor, I agreed and followed their expert opinion. I would like to remind you below that your claim that the funds in the full range of three-year funding of the contractor have been reduced only to the above-mentioned group does not correspond to the actual situation. The proposals of the expert commissions that have proposed the amendment on a reasoned basis are therefore not the only one of the programme partners of our ministry, where the level of co-financing changed in 2005 from the originally projected level of funds. It is therefore not an unusual measure, but rather to respect and comply with the tendering conditions and to comply with the contractual arrangements. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the rules set out in the tender documentation have been clearly defined in the amounts of our Ministry's programme partners' funds. In accordance with the tendering arrangements, the submission of the application meant that the applicant agreed to all the conditions and criteria for the invitation to tender. Of course, the contract is not only binding on the Ministry, but also for NSK information. Their signature meant that they agreed with the contractual provisions which stated that the final amount of funds for the purchase of equipment and programmes of operators in 2005 and 2006 would be determined annually and defined by the addition in the contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much. It's a question of question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u113	Of course, I have an additional question or additional answer, please. This is because the Treaty was three years in order to protect operators for a longer time, so that, of course, all changes within each year are more linked to inflationary flows, and this is a matter of minimal concern. Of course, the matter is also interesting from another point of view. Here, in a way, only one committee, the music commission, and Laibach, we know that it is not only a music group, and that is why, of course, the minister signs this, which, however, has an overview of all this cultural activity, not just over music. And just as Apollo, like Monsagetes, led the assembly of all husbands, he not only listened to Erat, but also Eutepera, Kaliopa, and Clio, and others, making it easier for him to decide whether it was good or bad. I asked for substantive reasons, not just for formal reasons, so I would really like to have this part answered for me: What was the substantive issue with the Laibach group in the previous rejection that their funds had been reduced from 5 million to 1 million, that is 80%? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u114	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you very much. So, personally, I took note of the opinion of the expert commission, as I said, and took this expert opinion into account. I believe that this expert committee was able to judge this and, of course, I agreed on this as well as I said. Regarding the nine husbands - I did not hear well what you said, but I would also like to mention that the NSK has recently signed the mentioned appendix to the basic contract, which stated that they will receive a million tolars for the operation of the Laibach Group in 2005. With regard to 100% compliance with contractual obligations, I would say that this applies to all the same principles, that all have to meet the conditions 100%. With regard to the content comments on what happened, I cannot tell you exactly at this time, nor have I prepared myself for what are the substantive reasons. In the first rejection, the Commission noted to the group in particular that these sets were justified only on the outline and that they were financially overvalued.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer will raise a question from the Parliament to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Honorable ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Increasing fertility and improving poor demographic image is one of the key strategic issues of Slovenia, among other things the Slovenian government noted. Therefore, the resolution of this issue has also been identified by its programme as one of the priorities. It's all right up here. Given the fact that negative demographic trends are characteristic of most of Europe and not just Slovenia and that for some time most European countries have been dealing with this issue and finding solutions, it is logical that we are talking more about this at this stage than offers concrete answers and solutions. In public appearances by government representatives, especially you, Minister Drobnič, there were many unknowns and few specifics. While you have laid down a sea of ideas and ideas in this dictionary, there are too many resolution pencils like: we should, we will, we will design, we will ensure, what will be more flexible and so on. However, in my view there are also some shortcomings that fall within the so-called group of contradictions. The most interesting is what you said when you presented the Ministry's programme when you first presented the programme for greater fertility, and immediately after you announced the liberalisation of the economy, it is said, a more flexible labour market, which translates into a more liberal approach to the forgiveness of workers. So, according to you, greater uncertainty with greater job losses will result in greater fertility and more positive demographic effects. Or that point of yours. [[Quote]] That "it is strange in this country that you are rewarded if you choose to be single" [[End quote]] which is, of course, the power to state that in the future, due to carefully planned demographic policies and programmes of your ministry, certain rights will be forfeited, according to your unjustifiable privileges, single mothers and single parents. Terrible, catastrophic, and concrete action! In short, the forecasting of social rights interference or the treatment of social rights is, without further delay, in total contradiction with the announced government objectives of increasing fertility. That's why I'm asking you, Minister. First: What concrete measures is your ministry preparing? Secondly: Will you in the government try to enforce the proposals of one of the members of the government's strategic council to introduce a special tax for couples without children? Thirdly: Do you support the idea that demographic policy will also be resolved by immigration? And fourthly: Do you support the idea of introducing a specific fund for demographic transition and the idea of extending working time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the questions raised and for your interest in the demographic image or demographic image of the Republic of Slovenia, which has unfortunately been quite black lately, and the government has also prepared some measures and targets in this area. The promotion of fertility is influenced by a number of measures and factors, not only from the arrangement that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs somehow owns. There is certainly a lot to be done on the environmental agenda, housing policy, study, education and other things not to mention. This is certainly a national issue, as well as the issue of future pensions, the provision of social insurance, health insurance, that the funds will be full, and not least the labour market, which you are finally mentioning, how to ensure the necessary labour force in the long term, either by importing or by ensuring a balance between fertility and economic activity. First of all, we want to encourage media support that will favour family politics, because we are aware that parents, couples, decide for children for this reason because they love life because they love children. The task of the State is to ensure decent social policy as well as family policy through its actions. We are aware that increasing some transfers would not significantly help to improve fertility. All these measures, including media support, can also be done with a favourable public opinion; this is also reflected in the results in other European countries. We have already proposed amendments to the Income Act. What in this sense, then, about the allowance allowance for parents, for large families. So, income and taking into account the basis for income levies. Then we will prepare amendments to the rules of the law on parental protection and family relations in terms of improving the rights of parents, analyse the implementation of the law on parental protection and family benefits, both as regards the right to work, the receipt of family benefits and the effectiveness of social transfers, and consider the national development programme to improve the situation of children in the Republic of Slovenia for 2005-2015. This submission is foreseen for the second quarter of this year. We will carry out an analysis of labour law on the rights of parents and prepare a proposal to encourage employers to recruit young parents and return mothers after maternity or parental leave. We will prepare a project for a family-friendly company aimed at protecting the employment of young parents in the care of the child in case of illness. Even with regard to dwellings for young families and for young people, they can also help to improve fertility. This is in connection with the Ministry of Environment and Space. An intergenerational agreement will have to be drawn up, as if the Slovenian pension system could become a problem at the time of a drastic decline in birth. Preparation of measures for parents with regular student status in order to ensure that more student couples decide on the birth of children. For mothers with student status, the state is supposed to provide parental supplement all the time, so we are going to elaborate this more precisely. We will also prepare long-term measures to promote births, for family businesses, incentives for entrepreneurs. In short, if I may sum it up. There are many of these measures, all of them are not financial in nature. Some also promote family life, and they promote decisions for children. As far as the flexibility of the labour market is concerned, this is. This has already been accepted by the previous government in the framework of the Lisbon Strategy and has also been confirmed. This does not mean the ease of forgiveness, but mobility of the workforce, mobility in terms of obtaining professional qualifications and more. The flexibility of the labour market means, however, that if you read the studies, more work for an indefinite period and less for a certain period of time. About the singles, that's why you mentioned it. All I've mentioned is abuse in those who only seem to live a single life, and otherwise not. It is only about eliminating abuse, or we have stressed the support of single parents and nothing worse will happen there, but perhaps even better.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I cannot agree with most of these answers because I have been very specific in these four questions. In fact, you're telling me about measures that will have some effect in 25, 30 years. And I've been asking you about the current social system that we have here. Of course, sufficient numbers are needed to ensure the number of active people who will care for the older population and the younger population. And if we are reading a coalition contract in which you wrote, inter alia, that one of the main issues in Slovenia in the future is also the issue of the Slovenian national substance - although it is not explained what the system interprets - but through the coalition contract is on this segment that I am now asking you about, the power to understand that this government or this country will build all the defence mechanisms, the protection of this national substance: foreign capital of foreign investment yes, immigration of labour from abroad, professional etc., otherwise not. This is what the Coalition Treaty says, and I specifically asked you about it in three questions. Finally, these same questions and ideas are offered to you by individual members, not about the entire strategic world of government, but by individual members of the strategic world in the Slovenian public. And I asked you, are you inclined to support these ideas in preparing your program or are you rejecting them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u122	Your additional question did not explain anything essential to your previous question. We kind of assume you're wondering what my position is on some of the proposals from the Strategic Council. With regard to this male tax, as far as I can understand, I have already explained at the press conference that our orientation is to support families, this proactive way of supporting them because most of these measures are already built. And at this point, we are not thinking about introducing this measure. The Strategic Council is a consultative body for the government, and it is not one that confirms either government plans or anything like that, but it has its own thinking, it has its own experts who give their opinions on this. And I didn't know what substance you were talking about. Maybe it's about the labour force, about the import of the labour force, or something else. If I understand this question of yours in this direction, then I must tell you that this government is advocating an economy that will attract investments in Slovenia in order to increase employment. Of course, we do not want to import the workforce uncontrolledly. But if you were talking about some other national substance, I don't know. However, you must tell which national substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Member Alenka Jeraj will raise the question to the Minister for Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the ministers! Colleagues and colleagues! I will ask the Minister of Culture about the protection of cultural heritage. The Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage defines the immovable and movable cultural heritage and regulates its protection by establishing the powers of the State and the local community. Article 5 of the Act provides that a cultural heritage which contains elements which demonstrate continuity or individual degrees of cultural and civilisational development, or which represents the ultimate achievement of creativity, or a key or rarely preserved proof of a particular period of historical history due to its particular or exceptional importance, may be granted the status of a monument of State importance. By decree declaring the Turjak Castle area to be a cultural monument of State importance, which entered into force 28. 6. In 2002, the following units of heritage were declared to be a cultural monument of State importance: the Turjak Castle and the Turjak Castle themselves. Both units have special significance for the Republic of Slovenia due to their cultural, archaeological, landscape, artistic and architectural, historical and other outstanding characteristics. On the basis of the above, they were declared a cultural monument of national importance with the characteristics of the cultural landscape, the art-architectural monument and the historical monument. On the basis of the above, I ask the following questions: How is it ensured that the monument of national importance is permanently preserved? What is it and will be done to preserve the monument of national importance of Turkey? How many funds have been earmarked so far to preserve the monument and predict how long and how long will it be in the future? I also ask for an answer: How will the Castle and its area, as well as the protected elements and accessibility of the public, be handled and ensured in what way, without jeopardising the protection of the monument in order to increase the cultural heritage of Turkey and other cultural monuments of national importance? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Simonita, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I thank you, honourable Member, for your questions and give you the following answers. So, in what way is it ensured that the monument of national importance is permanently preserved? The area of preservation and protection of cultural heritage is governed by the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage of 1999. The heritage of a greater cultural, archaeological, architectural, landscape, artistic and historical value is awarded the status of a cultural monument of local importance and, in a particularly important heritage, the State recognises the status of a cultural monument of national importance by decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The public service shall prepare a conservation programme for each declared cultural monument, through which the elements to be protected are determined and the development guidelines for the use of the monument after reconstruction. According to the law, the status of the monument is the responsibility of the owner and the declared monuments are on the priority scale of co-financing from state resources. What is being done and what will be done to preserve the monument of national importance Turjak - the area of Turjak Castle, including the castle Turjak, is declared a cultural monument of national importance. The castle is owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the management of cultural monuments owned by the Republic of Slovenia under the Act is entrusted to the Ministry of Culture. In the years 2000 and 2001, a large part of the castle roof was repaired; in 2002 the Vite Hall was fully renovated; in 2003 the entire investment technical documentation for the functional modernisation of the southern and western tract was produced. Since September 2004, the reconstruction of the South and West Treaty has been under way. During the first half of this year, the Ministry will prepare a public offer for the long-term purchase of the castle. In accordance with arrangements with the future tenant for the establishment of a suitable function, the Ministry will approach the restoration of the remaining parts of the castle. The funds used so far to preserve the monument: from 1999 when the Ministry of Culture took care of the monuments owned by RS until the end of 2003, 114 million 803 thousand were invested by the Ministry of Culture for the renovation of the castle. Since September 2004, the reconstruction of the South and Western Treaty, which will be completed by the end of 2005, and the investment value of these interventions is 382 million 498 thousand dollars. However, the continuation of the renovation depends, of course, on the agreement with any future tenant. How it will be handled and ensured that the castle can be presented and what follows from a long further question. For the Turjak Castle and other monuments of national importance, appropriate destinations must be selected in accordance with the conservation programme, which, of course, highlights the monuments. All cultural monuments of national importance must be publicly and freely accessible to all. Adequate purpose will enable the acquisition of own funds for the current operation and existence of the monument. The tourist and cultural activities of the monument will increase the cultural and historical value of the monument itself and enable the acquisition of structural policy funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr Rudolf Moge will ask a question from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u128	Can I make a procedural suggestion first?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u129	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u130	I learned that a few minutes ago, the bishop of Dr. Vekoslav Grmič, who did a great deal of good for Slovenia, died, and I suggest that we honor his memory with a minute of silence. [[...]] [[One minute of silence.]] [[...]] Thank him for everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u131	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u132	The Income Act, which began to be fully used, as we know from 1.1.2005, has changed, among other things, the system of taxation of pensions created in Slovenia or received by residents of Slovenia from abroad. Among other things, taxation of pensions on a source was introduced, which means that pensions with a source in Slovenia are taxed at the time of payment and the rate of the tax depends on who is paid the pension, on the amount of the pension and, most importantly, on the provisions of international agreements to avoid double taxation of income between Slovenia and other countries where these agreements exist. Those agreements eliminate double taxation of income, including pensions. Therefore, the purpose of the agreements is not to abolish the taxation of certain income, but only to ensure that this income is not taxed twice. A bilateral agreement on the avoidance of double taxation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia has not yet been concluded and I therefore ask the distinguished Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Minister of Finance: Has an agreement on the avoidance of double taxation with the Republic of Croatia already been drawn up or how far they are with the preparation of this act and when is it expected to be adopted or ratified in the National Assembly? I ask this because I have been approached by a large number of our citizens and also by citizens from abroad in my office.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Rupel, please. Both ministers have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u134	Mr President, my fellow Member, Mr Mogo. The thing is well-known to both the government and the foreign ministry, as I have for a long time, has a long beard. This is a double taxation convention which Slovenia has already started negotiating with Croatia or which Slovenia has already started negotiating, and I think it is quite a number of years ago. However, every so long these negotiations have been suspended, because the territory of each State Party or subject to such a resolution must also be indicated in this Convention. We're about this, I'd say, arguing with neighbouring Croatia, because there were problems with establishing a border. As you know, the issue of the border between Slovenia and Croatia is something, I would say, chronic and because of this we have not yet reached the end of this story. At the moment when I perform here and when you ask, Mr Member, new talks are taking place between Slovenia and Croatia on this issue. As I understand the negotiators, there have been some new receptions with which we can avoid the squeamish issues of the territory, etc., and as I understand it, there could be a contract or intervention in a relatively short period of time. We are aware of the problem of the situation in which we are both Slovenia and Croatia, although Croatia seems particularly interested in this agreement being adopted as soon as possible and has recently seen greater interest or motivation on its part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you very much. If I may, honourable Member, you have addressed a written question at the Ministry of Finance on 11 this month, and we have also forwarded it to you last Friday, or within one week. The fact is, I think that the answer from my fellow Minister for Foreign Affairs has given you the reasons why this has not yet happened. It is true that for many years this issue has remained open - between Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. The urgency has now increased, and it has increased in some ways precisely because a different law has been enacted in Slovenia, changes to the law on income adopted by this National Assembly. In May 2004, they introduced a new principle and principle that income is taxed at source and for pensions paid to beneficiaries who have their permanent residence or residents, in other countries, is then taxed here in Slovenia. Of course, this has raised a number of questions because this principle is currently in force, but there is still no agreement between the two countries to resolve the issue of double taxation. I am confident that, as long as these negotiations continue, as Minister Rupel has reported, we will soon come to a final solution. From the point of view of legislation, the tax legislation of the Republic of Slovenia has no problem, problems have been in a completely different area and I think that, if they are resolved, such an agreement will be very simple and will be very soon to be considered in this national ratification assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u138	If I understood you correctly, then that means that these double taxes are also in the package in Croatia to get rid of the border at the same time, and if I understood you correctly that you are looking for another way to get around these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u139	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I'll explain it for a little while. Because the border issue had not been resolved, it was not possible to write this limit in all the details in this agreement, as some would have wanted on the Croatian side. We avoided this problem by just saying the territory of Slovenia, the territory of Croatia and leaving the definition of borders outside this agreement, but it took several years - to reach this solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Happy Friend will raise a question for the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Respectable ministers, colleagues, colleagues! My question today, however, is addressed to you, Mr Sturm, but it also applies to the Minister of the Interior to a great extent. As a result of events that have never been sanctioned or condemned, the Slovenian public is also somewhat unappreciative to us politicians and, of course, there is a clear answer to these questions. What's this all about? It's hundreds of billions of stolen tolars. Before me, Mr Miro Petek has already addressed this subject to the Minister as a question, but it is generally known that companies have been bankrupted in Slovenia, and there has been a story of wild property that has made a handful of people very rich. They are also known for financial affairs, from Dadas, SIB Bank, Zbiljski Gaj, Elana, Red Cross, Slovenian Railways, Insurance companies Triglav, TAM Maribora, Orion, arms affairs, in which all are so-called innocent, Holding Ljubljana, and many citizens and citizens have essentially lost their property in these stories and there are many unemployed people on this account. The judiciary and the prosecution in the Republic of Slovenia have done nothing or the law enforcement authorities remain silent on these matters. There have never been serious approaches, prosecutions. We've never definitely found out about the culprits. It's always been a cellophane. More. Offenders are walking from company to company. When they leave one, they collect good retirement benefits. Last case in Elan. "Corruption" and "wild privatisation" are the most prosperous companies in Slovenia. The parties at the congress take decisions, such as DeSUS, on the audit of the ownership of the company, but unfortunately only on the conclusions. The vast majority of people in Slovenia or taxpayers are increasingly poor. A small percentage of them get rich like that. I ask you, Mr Minister, what will be done about what is now going on in the Republic of Slovenia. Will he take this issue seriously? Are we going to deal a little less with the so-called Roma groups that have been wiped out and a little more attention to these transfers, which have actually caused major shortcomings in state treasury? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Sturm, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. It is true, however, that the question, as well as the conclusions on which you have based your question, is relatively general. You were wondering if I could briefly sum up how the state will address corruption and the signing of food contracts. Let me say that the detection of crimes is primarily a matter of internal affairs bodies over which the Ministry of Justice does not have jurisdiction. However, prosecution of criminal offences is a matter of the State's prosecution, which the Ministry of Justice has a certain scope of jurisdiction over. While the State Prosecutor's Office is independent in handling specific cases, the Ministry of Justice, as part of the executive branch, does not interfere with its work or assess its work when it comes to the substantive decisions of the Prosecutor's Office. However, the Ministry of Justice may act in the sense of a supervisory complaint in the event of an unjustified long-term settlement of the case, and may also request from the State Prosecutors reports on the cases they are dealing with. Both in the case of criminal offences, which, although quite generally referred to by you, as well as in other cases, the Ministry of Justice will consistently serve the measures it has at its disposal. Of course, it is always possible to improve existing legislation, so the Ministry of Justice will also endeavour to thoroughly review the whole so-called organisational justice legislation and try to harmonise it with the comparable European countries of our cultural and civilisation circle in order to find a coherent and appropriate solution in this case. In this context, we can probably expect some new additional powers, including the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u146	Dear Minister! With all due respect, general orientation, are things unknown to the Slovenian public? We know of all these cases, many have been stuck as court records in the cabinets of present prosecutors or courts. And in this context, my word was also a request to you for a piece of understanding and a quick action. We can also carry out a partial audit of the companies that were owned, and we will find out if everything was legal, as some claim today. Take, for example, the insurance company Triglav, and there would be another company, but this is a good case. And in this context, normally, we cannot go beyond the fact that even the nativity of today's talk, which is slightly smaller than we would like to be, can be saved if we reduce poverty and increase employment. We can do that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Although I did not see a specific question, except for the general conclusion, which in many cases can be agreed upon. Let me just say here that things that are done cannot be dealt with. In all those cases which are open, however, under the conditions I have discussed, the Ministry of Justice may also adopt those measures which are currently laid down in the law. And that's what the Ministry has already done, and it will. In particular, the case, which is indeed closed but which is not completed in terms of supervision by the Minister of Justice, is unresolved files in the closet of one of the prosecutors. It was today that I had an interview with the Head of State Prosecutor's Office, and I also received a thorough report from him on the matter, which will also allow certain measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will raise the question of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I took part in the process of appointing a government with my address, I touched on the health field and I also expressed my opinion that everything was well and right in the coalition contract and the power to attract what was written. At the same time, I made it clear that the text was too often based on promises and forecasts where the coalition would work, while it was significantly less able to track the quantitative data, calculations that would, of course, specify the text written. The Coalition Treaty also stated that the scope of the rights would not be reduced and that the coalition would provide a basket of compulsory health insurance rights on the basis of complete solidarity. I think we could all agree on this, even though there was a question as to whether it would be possible to ensure this by exercising all the rights we had so far, without any answers as to where we would provide the resources for their realization. Of course, this doubt has also been increased by the assessments and forecasts and opinions of the Strategic Council for Economic Development, which, of course, has a significantly different view of the provision of rights and doubts have increased with such statements to the representative of this Strategic Council. Of course, doubts continue when we read the following messages, where the public health treasury should operate with 5.5 billion surpluses this year, or how it should balance the financial plan, i.e. with another initiative coming from the Ministry of Health, and of course the focus is on ensuring that rights in the basket of compulsory health insurance are not violated. If we take a closer look at where these savings are supposed to be. This is a multi-billion-dollar area of medicine and disease. I therefore ask the honourable Minister: Can we, after the current moves, believe the proposals of the Government Strategic Council, which requires the reduction of public funds and the reduction of health rights, as well as the announcements in the Coalition Treaty, that these rights will remain at the same level or even increase?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Brucan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u152	Mr President, honourable Members, Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to say that this question that you have asked today is, of course, very general in some part, in the second part and in the last part in fact concrete. That is why, of course, I will respond in this way. In particular, let me stress that in the Coalition Treaty we have stated that the extent to which health services are guaranteed must not be reduced. This is enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, which certainly does not mean an increase in the scope of rights. So we didn't predict the extent of the increase in rights. We also wrote that social values, such as solidarity, social justice and universal access to rights, must be strengthened and developed in Slovenia. That's what we're gonna do. With regard to cost management, however, it is important to stress in particular that Slovenian healthcare, similar to health systems elsewhere in the world and, of course, in European Union countries, has been operating at the upper limit of its financial capacity for many years. The greatest threat to this stability is the fast-growing expenditure, which is due mainly to the ageing of the population and the consequent changes in pathology. The rapid development of medicine and medicine and technology. Of course, changes are necessary in order to create conditions for improving financial resources and managing health care expenditure, thus meeting the requirements of the convergence programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia following the smooth operation of the health insurance undertaking in the field of compulsory health insurance. When introducing cost-management measures, including the allocation of funds through so-called SPPs, we will in particular be based on the needs of citizens and will not reduce their rights to health care in the future. One more word about these five and a half billion tolars. This isn't about any reduction. It's all the wrong information you've been able to read in some newspapers lately. The main issue was an over-inflated budget or a health insurance financial account for the following year. And we will use health insurance in the area of programmes and to reduce waiting periods instead of 7 billion in this year 3.7 billion. In doing so, of course, it is necessary to say that this money, 5.5 billion tolars, is the additional money created as a result of the amended legislation on pension insurance and is a meal that is somehow this year, if we are looking at it in its entirety, more than what could be expected without this amendment of legislation. We will also make real use of this money in the coming period, at least by the end of 2006, even after the agreement with the Ministry of Finance, to increase programmes to reduce waiting periods. However, the question is how capable we are in the current health system of this moment of 5 and a half billion actually with the system we inherited. I think that some of this is certain by the end of 2006, when changes will take place in other areas too, and I think it will be complete. So it is not about reducing money for programmes, but it is, of course, a somewhat entangled financial plan of the health insurance institution, which has been written at some points so that, of course, it can be used by those who prescribe medicines at their own discretion. In any case, I think that this plan has been exaggerated, but of course you mentioned medicine and disease because it is not a cure, but it is a drug, and there is little difference in that. Of course, in the case of patients, let us also prepare some of the new developments that will put Slovenia in Europe where we belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your answer. If this was a mistake, I'm sure I meant medicine. However, Mr. Minister, regarding the issues of financing and ensuring the scope of compulsory insurance rights, I would also ask you, given that you are visiting different cities in Slovenia and at least from media messages, it was possible to understand that you are predicting increased employment of doctors, accelerated renewal of equipment and reduction of waiting period, and you are also predicting an increased level of investment, as only in Ljubljana [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u155	I would like to point out that this is already a complementary question or a number of questions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u156	The question is, of course, related to ensuring the scope of compulsory insurance rights [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u157	Under the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to an additional reply. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u158	If I am allowed, I will ask a question and the Minister will assess whether he will be able to answer. In the event that I have been too broad, I will, of course, use the opportunity to ask a question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. This is an investment or a promise to increase public investment, given the programme already adopted, so that funds can be made elsewhere in Slovenia, except in Ljubljana, it may not be. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u160	I will be happy to answer this question, of course, because we have never promised to increase investment in health care or in walls or equipment anywhere before. All we are now talking about and all we are discussing when we visit Slovenia is the result of a programme already prepared in the previous mandate of the previous government. None of this is new. It is true, however, that for the next four years we lack at least once more money for health investments than is currently provided for health investments. For this four-year period, we have about 30 billion tolars. Not because of the desire, but to be able to meet the needs of those who are not on the programme at all, we need an additional 30 billion. I am aware of the extremely difficult situation in this field of investment in Slovenia, not only in Ljubljana - in Ljubljana the biggest problem is actually part of the clinical centre in terms of emergency and intensity, but these problems, such as in Ljubljana, are also present in many other places throughout Slovenia. I have to say, wherever I've been, I've run into exactly the same problems. Of course, I hope you will not say that we have made these problems in these three months; these problems are long-lasting and have arisen after years of mismanagement. In any case, we will try to arrange these things with certain investment movements in the balance sheet. So far, of course, this has not been possible. However, I would like to point out that all these plans that are now in preparation are the result of the plans that have been prepared since before, and none of these plans are new. So I must answer this question of how the rest of the places will be handled at this time. I must say that I will take it that everywhere where they have gone wrong or deliberately out of plans in the previous period, they will come back into this plan. If I only mention Novo Mesto Hospital as one such case, there's a lot more. So I hope that, at this time, I will be able to have the opportunity to substantially increase some investments, but so far there is no guarantee of this anywhere, neither in the old budget nor in the more recent interpretations of this old budget. But I hope something changes at this time. It's hope for now, it's not a promise, and I think I'm gonna make an effort to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat will raise a question from the Parliament to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary-General of the Government, distinguished ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the 2nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 17 November last year, we discussed the proposal of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia on the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union and the European Council. The debate concluded with a general assessment that this is one of the biggest challenges for Slovenia as a member of the European Union. How the Presidency will take place depends, of course, on whether or not the Constitutional Treaty for Europe will enter into force by the end of 2006. No matter what model it takes, it needs to be carefully prepared. This is also what we considered in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, as it was said, among other things. [[reading from magnetogram]] : "It is necessary to prepare for the presidency from now on and not only financially, but also organisationally, personnelally and politically. This is and must be a national project and not just a government project or just an external ministry. Furthermore, in order for the country to play its first major role on the international stage in a qualitative manner, it is important that the newly formed government immediately adopts a comprehensive programme of action and is likely to gain its consent and to inform the national assembly thereof. Of course, it will be necessary to prepare for negotiations within the Council of the European Union, meetings at expert level, working groups, meetings of the Committee of Permanent Representatives, meetings at the highest ministerial level, informal ministerial meetings. Therefore, in our view, staff reinforcements of the Permanent Representation in Brussels should be strengthened, European departments of the ministries of the field should be strengthened and, of course, everything else should be taken care of. As you have noted, I have not touched on substantive issues at all, nor have I reached agreement with other presidents or with other co-chairs. I therefore ask you, Mr Foreign Minister: Are you ready when the Staff Plan and the Training Plan for Professional Fellows will be adopted and how will you act if a sufficient number of highly trained, trained professionals cannot be properly trained in time? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Rupel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think it's a fear that a sufficient number of officials might not be able to be properly trained in time. I would also point out that this is not a big, first major test of Slovenia on the international scene. Slovenia has already chaired the UN Security Council. Slovenia currently holds the chairmanship of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Slovenia has finally managed to convince the world that it is worthy of international recognition and you will also admit that these were very important actions that Slovenia has carried out in the foreign and political field. Now, as to the specific issues that you are addressing to me. We have first set up a narrower working body or a narrower working group for the Presidency of the European Union and a wider working group for the Presidency. The Closer Working Group shall take care of the content, ensuring consistent leadership of the preparations for the presidency. This group is led by the Prime Minister, Mr Janša, members of Dr Bayuk, then by me, then by Dr Virant and State Secretary for European Affairs Koprol. This broad working group for the preparation of the Presidency, represented by representatives of all ministries, is in charge of operational preparations for the takeover of the Presidency and oversees the work of ministries and other government-based, participating bodies. Five subgroups operate within the broader working groups. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is the leading authority for the management of the subgroup to prepare the Presidency programme, while the leading government body for the work of the subgroup and the staff is the Ministry of Public Administration, which is chaired by a fellow Virant. The task of this subgroup is to prepare a human resources plan that you are asking about, then a business schedule, selection of staff, preparation of an education plan by target group and so on. I'd like to say that these subgroups have already started their work recently. Individual ministries shall participate in the preparation of the Presidency programme, including in the design of the Staff Plan and the selection of staff. Our Ministry, the real Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its field, is preparing a programme of human resources completion or refinement, complements that will take place at individual stages. It is clear, as you yourself find, that a thorough and early preparation is necessary for the effective implementation of the Presidency. That's the key. In training the staff involved in the activities of our Presidency in the European Union, we will primarily ensure a high level of knowledge of the functioning of the European Union and decision-making processes in institutions such as the world and the European Council, and you yourself have mentioned that one part of this Presidency may happen if the European Constitution is adopted in a timely manner. We will pay particular attention to the establishment of a sufficient number of officials, capable developments, the management of working groups within the framework of the European Union Council working groups. Of course, we will also pay great attention to training people or learning foreign languages, particularly French, which is one of the most important languages for working in the European Union. Then we will strengthen the central coordination bodies at home in Slovenia and, of course, the permanent representation of Slovenia in the European Union. This human resources strengthening will take place gradually and in stages. I would also like to mention that we will also receive some assistance from co-chairmen, Germany and Portugal in preparing for the Presidency of the European Union. This assistance, advice, cooperation already under way will be useful in the preparation of the Presidency staff. So we don't even think about introducing a sufficient number of officials for this mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u166	I thank you for what you've told me. I'm sure this isn't the first chance I've ever had. Allow me, however, my personal opinion to consider it the most important among those you have mentioned. I asked about these things simply because I know a number of young people with university education as well as postgraduate education, which upsets them and sees them as a job opportunity. Since there has been a lot of talk about compatibility lately, about political compatibility, of course, I wonder: Will some of these young people who might have enough knowledge not get the opportunity to gain experience before they can compete for important places? When I asked you about the assistance of the two co-chair countries, there is also a practice in Europe that when they cannot get enough of their own from the human resources pool, they simply come from other human resources pools. So I wonder, do you think we'll have enough?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u167	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u168	Dear Member! The issues we are talking about have been the subject of discussions at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for some time and also broader in the government. I am aware that many young people in the Slovenian Presidency of the EU have the opportunity to work, for a career, for progress and so on. We'll pay full attention to that. Believe me, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are not asking about any membership or political criteria in employment, if that is what you had in mind. The problem I see is that the amounts that the financial aspects of wages that the government can offer to young people are relatively poor, relatively unstimulating, and that sometimes makes it difficult to get the best people. I promise myself, however, that because of the nature of the work that we are expecting in 2007-2008, we will still motivate enough young people, I especially count on them, and that with their help we will do our job well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Ficko will ask the Minister for Education and Sport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia is funded or co-financed by the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, building sports facilities, research and development of sport and publishing in sport. The Foundation shall decide on the allocation of funds allocated to its activities under the annual work programme or financial plan and the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Foundation. On the basis of Article 21 of the Scientific Commission, the Foundations shall draw up proposals for material for meetings. They shall cooperate with the Director of the Foundation in their activities. On the proposal of the expert commissions, the Council of the Foundation is expected to adopt a decision on the allocation of funds. For 2005, it was awarded and distributed at a total value of 1 billion 782 million SIT, a maximum of 982 million 800,000 for the construction of sports facilities, in 81 programmes. In view of the above, I ask the question: Does the Ministry of Education and Sport exercise any control over the work of the professional commissions and the Council of the Foundation regarding the allocation of funds? In the 2005 distribution of funds, I found in the review of the approved programmes that only four programmes from the statistical region of Pomurje received funding to co-finance the construction of sports facilities. The total amount of funding for the co-financing of the construction of sports facilities is SIT 13 million, which means 1.3% of the total share for this purpose of distributed funds in Slovenia. For sports activities, a total of SIT 2.1 million is allocated to operators from Pomurje. Viewed in its entirety, the mayoral sport of the 15 million SIT, mentioned above, receives one billion 782 million 800 thousand, representing 0.5% of the share. With this information, I'm as disappointed and sad as Pomurec. Mr Minister, I am convinced that you agree with me that such division is not yet in line with the goal of the Government of Slovenia after achieving a balanced regional development in Slovenia, of course this time in the field of sport and sports infrastructure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia promised to achieve this goal on a recent visit to Pomurje. On the basis of this, I ask the question: How will you ensure the achievement of the objective of equitable regional development in the area of the allocation of the funds of the said Foundation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u172	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Mr Ficko, Commissioner, thank you for the question. I share my concern with you too because the Premur region has virtually been left behind from the distribution of funds from the Foundation for the financing of sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. As we all know, this foundation was set up by a national council, which is also exercising its constitutional rights. The fact is that the lawfulness of the Foundation’s work is the responsibility of the Director that the Foundation has a significant share or an important role in financing sports activities as well as investment in sport, while at the same time the fact that many civil society organisations, sports organisations, have addressed a protest against the way financial resources are allocated, in particular investment funds. I also fully understand your indignation and indignation at some of the premurk sports unions. The fact is that the financial control over the allocation of the Foundation has an accounting court and that I am not aware of the audit of the Court of Auditors and of their possible findings. The Ministry of Sport also does not have functions of control over the operation, financial supervision, the only thing the Ministry of Education and Sport has in this regard is that each year the Council of the Foundation gives a report on the financial situation and operation to the Ministry. The Ministry can now prepare or identify possible inconsistencies in the functioning of the Foundation in particular in terms of whether the existing rules and criteria adopted by the National Assembly have been complied with. The fact is that the National Assembly could also change those rules and criteria. Above all, I advocate or support the fact that all participants or all those who have applied for these funds have the right to defend their rights under administrative procedure. The Foundation now rejects this possibility of being established under the Foundations Act, which does not foresee this possibility. Given the strength and importance and role of the Foundation in the development of Slovenian sport and also in the field of investment in sport, I believe that all those who have run for these funds should have this legal certainty. I agree with that. I think that the Administrative Court has also assigned to all those who have complained about this procedure, but now the case is before the Supreme Court and we are waiting for the ruling of this Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u174	To be completed: funds acquired in the Pomurski sport for previous years. For 2003, this was 9 million or 1.3%; in 2004, there was 10.7 million or 1.1% of the share, I mentioned earlier in 2000. In addition to keeping the rules, the Foundation writes in its 2003 report: "The Fund has divided the funds according to the model of even distribution of funds across the entire territory of Slovenia." These data, which I have mentioned, probably do not confirm this, so it is all the more justified to intervene in the allocation of the funds of the said Foundation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u176	As I said before, I agree with your findings, warnings. We will, I expect, in the coming days, the foundation council is scheduled to meet tomorrow to address all these reports, and in the coming days we will also receive these reports to the Ministry of Education and Sport. We can also get to know you in more detail if you want, but this moment, I stress again, we do not have the systemic possibilities of financial control and the impact on the operation of this foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u177	Thank you. Mrs Majda Shirca will raise the question of a Member of Parliament to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u178	Dear Mr. Rupel! You have been Minister for Foreign Affairs for so long, it will probably not be difficult for you to answer the question that I will ask you, and above all, your matter is certainly not foreign to you. Also, Slovenia is not a foreign country because it has been dragging for endless years. The question is not what you have done in the past, but what you have done in recent months on this subject, as regards the return of works of art and images from Italy to Slovenia. We all know that during several periods, that is to say before the war, at the beginning of the war and after the war, a great deal of art has gone to Italy, which has never returned to Slovenia, regardless of the fact that both the Paris peace treaty and the Ottoman agreements have created a legal space to justify and require return. We demanded it, but there hasn't been a return. There was no return of hundreds of works of art, including those of Karpač's famous paintings from the Church of St. Ana with children and saints, about which we began to negotiate in 1993. First of all, questions about the return of those recently discovered works of art that were hidden in the cellars of the Roman palace and were to be presented in the market for Rivoltella are very complicated. We know that these are images that were not taken illegally but by legal means, including the law that was passed in Italy in 1939, which meant and allowed only the withdrawal of works of art from war. These works, which have their own ID cards, revers, documents and all legal notes recorded that they are from Slovenia, cannot and still do not come to Slovenia. That's exactly what I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: What have you done in the last slightly tighter relations between Slovenia and Italy, especially in the light of the fact that many politicians in Trieste have somehow expressed that the question is whether it is even Slovenian ownership that doubts arise, and also in the light of the fact that the memory is somehow extinguished and what was before the war is no longer remembered, but is disappearing? So are the pictures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Rupel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u180	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member! It's also a story with a beard. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are responsible for the process of negotiating the return of cultural goods, works of art, archives, cadastral and land books from Italy. This is about the procedures that have been conducted before World War II, in short, a long time since then, and the chances for action have been great before you and I came into Slovenian politics. But it's not that important. What I'm saying is that we have our duty to return the cultural goods. The legal basis for how these procedures are to take place has been prepared and justified. And with regard to the professional basis, you probably know, the Ministry of Culture was in charge. In short, there are two ministries involved. In many diplomatic notes, in 1999, 2002, 2003, and so on, we called on the Italian side to establish a bilateral mixed commission, to respect the arrangements, to which the Italian side unfortunately did not react for a while. On our initiative since autumn 2004 - I am talking about the latest time - a special working group, composed of representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Culture and the professional institution, is meeting, with the task of drawing up a list for Slovenia of outstanding issues in this area. The working group is also in contact with the Italian professional institutions, which, as is known, are preparing an exhibition at the Rivoltella Museum in Trieste called the Restaurant of Masters from Istria, from Paolo, Veneziano to Tiepol. As we also understand from the media reports, 21 works of art were to be exhibited, either before or during World War II, from Slovenian churches to Istria. The Italian side invited Slovenian experts in autumn 2004 to participate in the catalogue of this exhibition, which is, of course, questionable whether Slovenia should participate or not. This is a matter of substance and time. After the December meeting [[I'm talking about December 2004]] There is a written communication between our ministry and the Italian Foreign Ministry, also between the professional institutions on both sides. And the documentation on the works to be taken, which will serve in the negotiations for their return, is being updated today. These efforts are carried out by us: the sector for international relations in culture led by Mrs Drnovšek Zorkova, then the sector for international law, the sector for relations with the European Union and the Single Economic Area. As I have already said, our ministry also cooperates with the Ministry of Culture and other institutions such as the National Gallery, the Slovenian Archives and the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, with the church as the owner of the main work of the arts. The position of the church, which was confirmed by the bishop’s conference, is that Italy must return the works of art to their original places. This was also repeatedly expressed by the church's top representatives in talks with the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs recently, a month ago, in my conversation with the Archbishop Aloysian Uranus. In short, we're doing what we can and can do right now. Of course, we will not give up and hope for a near solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u182	Minister, you didn't surprise me with the answers, because everything you said was done long ago, and actually these facts are familiar to me. I've been asking you about activities lately. I am supplementing my question with activities this week. This week there was a delegation of the National Assembly, a parliamentary delegation also attending a visit to Rome. I was concerned, at least the media reported what was said there. Gustavo Selva, a member of the National Alliance, or the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission, who has spoken on this subject on several occasions and has identified himself, said this week that if images and statues were taken illegally and forcefully, we must return them to Slovenia. Obviously, the leader of the national assembly group, Mr Kramberger, was not familiar with the matter enough to challenge or hope that you would object to such a position, because the images were not illegally taken from Slovenia, but legally based on the law and only to defend them, protect them and somehow withdraw them from the war threat. This statement by Mr Silva is of great concern to me at least because it assumes that it is an illegal alienation from Slovenia and, of course, in this light, concern is justified. In this light, I am also asking you an additional question: Does this concern seem in place to you, and if you will respond to it even when you visit an even more undefined and increasingly withdrawn visit to Mr. Fini in Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Parliamentary. Of course, we are all concerned, but the statement that you gave me, Member Selva's statement surprised me a bit, not only on the positive side but also on the negative side. On the negative side of the fact that Mr Selva was obviously unaware of the origin, of the nature of the work at the time when this thing started, or that he did something a little ignorant. However, what he said in the second half of his statement is good. He said that if this is the case, if these works in Italy are in some inappropriate way or in an illegal way, we will return them. This was some kind of statement that was probably binding. If you don't mind, I'll be done. If this statement is serious, it is a Member, I take the statements of Members and Members seriously. If this statement was serious, then we can promise that there will be an acceleration in solving this problem, which, as we say, has a long beard. As you know, the O.K. Agreements were signed in 1975. The matter began to be resolved in the old Yugoslavia and then stopped in the old Yugoslavia. But on your question, regarding my possible dialogues with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Finland of Italy, I can assure you that, of course, this will be the subject of our discussions and that this is, of course, sooner or later on the agenda of these talks and dialogues, as has always been the subject of dialogues and discussions and requests in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The question will be raised by Master Borut Saiovic to the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Council of Ministers! Colleagues, colleagues! My question concerns an area that has recently been very topical in Slovenia, namely waste management. The time is coming when we will have to adopt a final strategy on how to tackle this problem. I wonder: Does the new government already have a waste management strategy? Are incinerators involved in this strategy? Then the question is, Why, in what number, how many would be most appropriate for Slovenia? And above all, what becomes more up to date every day: Are the regional waste management centres also possible locations of future incinerators? This strategy, which has emerged recently and is based on the support of only large centres, with the excuse that this requires financial effects, does not make sense to me. This is about as if only one bathroom and one bathroom were built in residential towers due to favourable economic effects. More waste in one place means even or too much environmental burden. The population of Slovenia is not such that certain European solutions are easily transferred to Slovenia, as certain cities in Europe have more inhabitants than the whole of Slovenia. And not in the end: When and what solution do you anticipate for Ljubljana, where the most waste is produced in Slovenia in one place? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u187	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u188	Thank you very much for the question, Ambassador Magi. Borut Saivitz. First of all, does the government already have a waste management strategy? Yeah, he's got it. Are incineration plants included in this strategy? Yeah, they're on. If and in what number and how much? Two devices should be installed in the Slovenian space. Let me answer your questions a little bit more. On 22 April last year, the Government adopted a strategic paper on waste management. The document is called the Operational Programme for the disposal of waste with a view to reducing the amount of waste disposed of, biodegradable waste for the period until the end of 2008. This is also the result of a national environmental protection programme in the field of waste management. The current government is summarizing the operational programme in force. The second question is about incinerators. This is a directive on waste incineration. The Directive covers the incineration of hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste. The Directive excludes biomass, while waste oils are no longer excluded. Thus, capacity is needed according to our estimates for waste incineration in the long term about 380,000 tonnes per year. To your specific question, a concrete answer. In view of the usual size of incineration plants for waste incineration, it is appropriate to install one or two devices in the Slovenian space. In view of the amount of waste, small installations are not excluded on economic technical conditions and in particular on favourable energy consumption. Due to the requirements arising from the rules on biodegradable waste disposal, 23 more municipal waste landfills are expected to operate after 2008 and the first incineration plant will have to start operating no later than 2009. Maybe the most sensitive question about locations. Locations for incinerators have not yet been established. With regard to the need for thermal treatment of waste and the time dimension that I was just talking about, some activities have already begun to determine optimal possible locations, always with a thorough expert opinion and local partnership that the local population will also accept the location. In the already mentioned operational waste disposal programme, the Government has instructed all carriers to prepare a report on the fulfilment of their obligations under this programme for each calendar year. An optional report on this issue is expected to be submitted to this year's June. You also specifically asked whether regional centres were potential locations. My answer is the same as before. Locations for incinerators have not yet been established. And you asked what and how with Ljubljana, which because of the large number of inhabitants also means that the most waste is produced here. Ljubljana and Ljubljana swimming pool is an integral part of the whole of Slovenia. Thus Ljubljana will also be included in this decision one or two devices set up in the Slovenian space. I have also prepared a slightly more detailed answer to your question, but it is linked to existing legislation, to the European Directive and also to assessments of how much and which waste will be incinerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk, Minister of Public Administration, will raise the question of the Ambassador. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Since 1991, the former Slovenian municipalities or the headquarters of these municipalities, with the exception of 8 or up to 13 potential centres of the provinces and administrative districts, have consistently lost their powers at the expense of the gradual and ruthless centralisation of the new country. In this reform, only the new small congregations, which often did not even have the most basic legal conditions for setting up, acquired the truths. Almost all the new capitals, especially the newly formed city halls, are also acquired, including those that do not meet all the legal standards. In the meantime, all the municipal centers were lost. Powers were lost in various areas, such as inspection services, tax and geodetical administrations, the area of defence and protection and rescue, etc. This time it's supposed to be the administrative unit. Under the coalition contract, you have written down that you will change the territorial structure of the state administration by forming 12 or a maximum of 14 exhibitions from the current 58 administrative units. All these interventions, together with the announced degradation of administrative units, are and will also contribute to the outflow of highly trained and university-educated staff to the so-called administrative centres. However, I am convinced that such an intervention also means significant job losses. It is also right to list some of these municipalities: Ajdovščina, Dravograd, Idrija, Ilirska Bistrica, Izola, Kamnik, Lenart, Lendava, Logatec, Ormož, Slovenska Bistrica, Slovenske Konjice, Škofja Loka, Tržič, Vrhnika, Žalec, etc. As far as I know, you have also advocated this reform as Secretary of State in the previous government, and it has been stopped. I wonder: Have you prepared any new expertise on the subject of 14 administrative units, like three years ago, where this was rejected? So let me make a decision. I ask Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of Public Administration: What are the arguments for the projected transformation of 58 administrative units into 14 administrative districts? When do you intend to make a transformation, how do you imagine it, and what will be the financial, organisational and human resources consequences, in my opinion, of unnecessary reforms? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Bevk, Members and Members of Parliament! The two key objectives of the government in the field of public administration and its organisation are: firstly, ensuring the quality and accessibility of administrative services for citizens and for businesses, secondly, rationalisation, saving, cost reduction and restrictive employment policies. That is why the government will seek and use all possible mechanisms to achieve these two objectives, including the other one, including rationalisation. And one of the projects in this context is also the envisaged reorganisation of administrative units, which was in fact - that is, the professional basis for it was actually prepared already in the previous mandate, but it is not true that these professional bases would ever have been rejected by any formal decision of the Government or of the National Assembly. The main reason for not reorganising administrative units was that the project had been committed to establishing the landscapes, i.e. the regionalisation project. We are planning to reorganise administrative units for the first half of the following year, that is to say actual realization, and the basis for this is to be prepared this year. Following the reorganisation, 14 administrative units with exhibits are expected to operate in Slovenia. In particular, I must stress that the service part, i.e. administrative services, what is important to citizens and businesses, will remain in the same locations. Services will not retreat and this government will not repeat mistakes from the past in the area of tax administration, for example, when some important services have been removed from the local environment to the regional centres for entrepreneurs. On the contrary, this government will seek to bring administrative services closer to end-users, in particular by continuing to open local offices. In Slovenia, 182 informed local offices already operate today, providing quality of the most basic administrative services for citizens. What are the advantages of reorganisation? There will be a concentration of management of human resources, finance, allocation of administrative matters, files, i.e. greater flexibility. For example, if we are dealing with different burdens in two administrative units today, we have great difficulty redistributing, say, files from one administrative unit to another, because it applies to the principle of local jurisdiction for many procedures, not for all, but for many. So, much more flexibility, much better human management, finance and administrative work. Secondly, some director services will be concentrated [[Information technology, accounting, finance]] . There is no reason for every administrative unit in a regional area to have a special computer player, if you want, I will take this case when we know that one person can cover the entire area or several administrative units with his services. And from this title, of course, we will be able to make rationalisation. In other words, with fewer people, we can do the same work. This does not predict forgiveness from the reorganisation of administrative units, although I always say that this is no longer excluded in the administration, but I believe that we will be able to reduce the number of employees from this title over a longer period of time. We are looking for every opportunity to reduce the number of employees in the administration, which is what citizens expect of us. The project will be prepared precisely this year, including the financial and human resources implications. I would like to reiterate once again that it is important for citizens to be close to them and that services are of good quality, that the administration is as cheap as possible and that the state budget is as low as possible. This is what is important, but not what kind of board will hang or how many executive heads will be in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. However, I think it would be necessary before this reform is implemented, which I think is still questionable, to prepare an analysis of the state of territorial organisation of the various national authorities across the country. It would be good to see bad and negative salaries, for example, tax administration reforms. Is this tax administration closer to service users than before the reform or relocation of services and employees to larger centres - say, from Idria to Novo Gorica? I doubt that. What about the reform of the geodetic administration? There was a reduction of 60 to 100 jobs in the plan. That's what I'd like to know, too, is how this thing happened here. It is necessary to analyse and evaluate the option of territorial integration of state authorities around existing administrative units, which you consider to be the most successful part of the state administration, but not to join them in 8 or up to 14 future regional centres. I think that in this way, by bringing all these state authorities together in the current administrative units, by bringing together support services, we could achieve more important and similar rationalisations than you say. Otherwise, it will only take place on individual references, which will accept the roles of citizens and individual information points. But if we want a more serious service, let's say from Idria we have to go to Nova Gorica, I don't know, from Metlika to Novo mesto, from Jessenic to Kranj and so on. So I would really appeal to reason in all of us. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] these reforms, which are many reforms due to reform. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you very much for questioning or for another question. I would like to emphasize once again what is essential. After this reform, it will not happen that a citizen should have a service in another place than he gets today, but I said, rather the opposite! Thus, with the help of local offices, services will be approached by citizens. That's our goal, and that, I could say, is a promise. Reform due to reform - that will not be the case. I think I've made it clear enough what the main reasons are that guide us. But I also thank you for that first part of the second question, for the initiative or proposal, which is very much worth considering. In fact, the integration of the various public administration services, which are today organised separately on their separate vertical lines, could further bring savings and rationalisation and more coordinated work. It is, for example, the organisation of a geodetic service, the organisation of a tax administration and some others, i.e. inspectorates, defence administrations, a protection and rescue facility and so on. A review of the territorial organisation of these in the state administration has been made, we know exactly how they are organised. For example, the geodetic administration has 12 geodetic administrations, Durs has 13 tax offices, defence has 8 defence administrations, protection has 13 outposts, health inspector has 10 district units, market 14 and so on. In short, a highly dispersed territorial organisation of the state administration. In fact, we intended to address this issue at a second stage, either at the same time or after the reorganisation of administrative units, saying that horizontal integration of various organisational forms of government into a uniform form, which again means rationalisation and better use of resources, easier deployment of employees where there are priorities where there is more work and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Milan Cvikl will ask the Minister of Finance a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u198	Mr Vice President, members of the government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister! In recent weeks, the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia presented mainly the work programmes of the ministries, the priorities of the departments and the expected scope of the additional amount of money required by the departments at the conferences. We have witnessed preparations for the budget's rebalancing and ministers are justifiably, totally in line with the coalition contract, all of us have demanded more money from the state budget, at the same time a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the pension and disability insurance law, which also foresees an increase in funding for new rights, is once again in line with the coalition contract. You, as the first custodian of the state treasury in Slovenia, have not yet responded fully to the demand for more public money. Some analyses show that the coalition contract would cost between a minimum of 106 billion and a maximum of 360 billion dollars per year or over 1,000 billion dollars during the government's envisaged mandate. It is true, Mr Minister, that, at the edge of the meeting of the European Finance Ministers on 8 March this year, you have explained to the whole EU how Slovenia manages well with public finances, that it may have a somewhat unambitious deficit planned for 2005 and the coming years. Now 112 billion or just another percentage point or 60 billion under the Maastricht criterion are legalized. Correctly and I agree that this is an unambitious goal for you. However, on the same day, your Prime Minister, Mr Janša, said that the additional deficit is another 70 billion, so that Slovenia has almost exceeded the deficit of 3%, which, of course, was determined by Maastricht and would prevent the euro from being taken over. Yesterday afternoon and evening, on Sunday 20 March, you met with your colleagues again to solve the complications of the Stability Pact. Congratulations on the well-attained agreement, but I assume that people in Slovenia have asked you about so many different numbers. You say something, and your Prime Minister at least initially something else, even though on Thursday, March 17th, he's already a bit of a fixer. You've completed your discussions with the International Monetary Fund today. THE STA already reports what the representatives of the Fund have told you. We understand that they praised past results and warned about moves for the future. I ask you, Minister: What deficit, for what deficit, will you take up the deficit in the proposal for the 2005 budget rebalancing? Is it nominally higher than the level achieved in 2004 or lower than it has already been adopted, which is expected in view of high economic growth and urgent due to the euro takeover? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Bayuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ambassador. Of course, the question was only the final question, but before that you had one speech about your understanding of certain statements. And I will also allow myself to correct your speech first, and I will also have to clarify once again that when the Prime Minister spoke of 70 billion, he did not talk about the deficit, but he said that until then, until that day, we had detected at least 70 billion additional tolars that were not foreseen in the 2005 budget in force. Then - not once, but repeatedly - I have already explained this and I have no problem explaining this to you again, that it is indeed the vast majority of expenditure that has not been foreseen. Only one part of this, namely the expenditure that we will have to cover from the budget related to the return on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court of excessively charged or found illegally charged interest, would amount to 9 billion this year and this could not be foreseen. And it could not actually be foreseen because the Constitutional Court decided this in the middle of the summer last year. Mr. Minister, Dr. Maramor, actually warned me about this at the time of the handover, but at that point, on the basis of the information he had available through the Ministry's professional services, he expected that it would be there somewhere between 3 billion and half. The fact is, after re-checking by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, we will have to devote 9 billion dollars to this problem. Nine billion! Everything else, out of the 29 billion additional, unforeseen appropriations, the 2005 budget expenditure we received through written presentation by the Ministry of Transport and Railway Agency, plus the guarantees we are currently receiving from banks, written instructions that we should pay them, which brings the 70 billion that I have already reported. As for last night's meeting. There was a meeting behind closed doors, so I'm surprised you already have information about what was going on in there. However, I can assure you that they have not praised the previous governments and have not attacked the current ones. They didn't even praise the present. The fact is that the situation of the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia is in relatively good condition, if viewed from this point of view, to meet the criteria for taking over the euro. However, this Commission has warned us that the convergence programme sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a basis for this takeover of the euro last year, that this programme is essentially insufficient, that it is unambitious in that it has postponed all reforms to the future and that it has actually achieved some perfection only on the basis of the assumption that Slovenia will retain its position as a net recipient from the budget of the European Union, which is not yet guaranteed. And what is least assured is that if we become and remain - what is the wish not only of this government but of all the Slovenians - that we will remain as net recipients in the budget of the European Union if we are currently exposed to the capacity to draw on these funds. The fact is - and this is an undeniable fact, Mr Member - that the previous government has not highlighted sufficient mechanisms and that the data clearly show that in the area of cohesion programmes we have drawn - nothing, in the area of structural programmes we have drawn - nothing that this government is now changing your so-called record projects or programmes that are nothing more than empty boxes, names, without programmes and projects, that we are only now doing this and that we will try to expose it. As far as your question is concerned, what kind of deficit will we take? Of course, we will stand up for as little deficit as possible! On the contrary, what the previous government has done, which has sent to this National Assembly a budget for 2004 and 2005 with as high a deficit as now foreseen - shows that it has now changed this political option of its vision and view of these things. I am grateful that you are concerned about inflation in Slovenia, because you were obviously not worried enough before, given the proposed budgets that you sent to this National Assembly for consideration. The only thing I can provide you with; currently, based on the data we have, because we are looking at a reliable deficit that will be presented by the government in defence. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u201	I'd like to ask you slowly if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u202	Yeah, I'm just finishing up. That the deficit would be lower than what the government had planned in December 2003, that is, much less than 112 billion in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u204	Allow me, however, to ask a question or an additional question because I have not received an answer. And let me quote you in the first place, too, STA. All I know about this meeting is from the STA and the STA says that today, when you met with the delegation of the International Fund, you said that in the Ministry you are currently preparing a rebalancing of this year's budget, in which you intend to reduce the deficit by 15 to 20 billion. I'm glad you said that, if that's true, which is what the U.S.A. reports. We also estimate that this could be reduced by 10 to 20 billion because there is more revenue due to the good economic situation. Indeed, this same international money fund says that the economic situation in 2004, in the last year of the previous government, is much better than predicted. Last year, the country recorded a strong 4.6% economic growth, entered the exchange rate mechanism and is well prepared for the planned takeover of the euro. However, the AMS points to the need to reduce the budget deficit to a level lower than planned. And I only find because, of course, you have also found that an international visit has now confirmed that the picture of public finances is not as black as that of the Prime Minister. On the contrary! In 2004, the deficit was lower than planned. But what will be the deficit in 2005, in the first year of your government, of course, it is up to you. And in this regard, I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, how will you, as Minister of Finance, act before the pressures of the ministries? How will you - when you say that the government will only deal with additional pension requirements in the second half of the year - decide on the proposal of Mr Žnidaršič? How will you address the budget items that you say are only collections of items? How will you support the development, objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and, for example, cover additional healthcare needs? That's what I'd like you to explain to us because you didn't give us the number. I want to know how the number 15 to 20 billion, the lower the deficit, will reach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u205	Thank you. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u206	Thank you very much for this additional question. Of course, you would like to have a discussion in three minutes about the budget balance and public finances. Speaking of which, let's start with a little bit about public finances and the real situation. The structural deficit not only changed in 2004 but also increased slightly, according to recent data. You are well aware that this is one of the preconditions of the Stability Pact and we have yet to work in this area. And we will also have to come to this National Assembly with certain proposals that we will be together, because this is not a business of a single minister, not a government, but a government and a national assembly. The missed opportunities to really tackle the structural deficit in Slovenia are obvious. That's what we're gonna have to do now. And we will have to do this because there was no listening because we still insisted that we could have a deficit indefinitely, but not that we finally only have to accept and accept the fact that it is written in the Stability Pact that in good years it is necessary to actually generate an surplus to prepare for bad years. In good years, such as last year, 2004, when obviously economic growth reached 4.6%, which is indeed absolutely good and worth congratulating that we can all be happy that Slovenia has achieved this and that we have had such a deficit. It has indeed been slightly smaller, but I hope that you, Mr Member, and others will not forget that this has been achieved on the basis of the exercise of the extraordinary powers vested in the Minister of Finance under the Public Finance Act, so that he can, without the Government, decide to suspend the implementation of the budget. On 7 October, the President, the last Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble, decided on such a measure. And this is a major cause, not structural change, but the determination of a minister who actually achieved that we have reduced the deficit by a few 10 billion less than anticipated. So, I think you've gone too fast, not just now, as always, when you've been talking about these things, in praise for a situation that's actually not as pink. Structural deficit in Slovenia is a fact. In accordance with the Stability Pact, we have to save it and save it by 0%. [[...]] [[character for end]] Every year, this is not a small provision for any government and not for this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will put the question to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues. My question will address the problem of my congregation of Radeče. The location plan for the construction of the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant was adopted in 1986 by the municipality of Laško and, after about 8 years, this hydroelectric power plant began operation in 1993. The municipality of Radeče, which was established in 1995, also had to provide a permanent source of resources in order to take up part of its obligations under the terms of the final and incomprehensible works. The Regulation on concessions for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, by which it established the method of payment and the amount of concession and other important provisions, has never been implemented. The Radeče municipality, however, lost about 25 million tolars a year. These funds were intended to replace the municipality by adopting a decree on compensation for building land for water. The Sava power plants of Ljubljana objected to this and contested the amounts calculated by these legal means, and the Constitutional Court, by a decision adopted on 28.10.1999, annulled the contested decision. Thus, in 1996 and 1998, Radeče municipality calculated the ineligible remuneration for construction land of 92 million Slovenian tolars. Even though Selu today received 28 million tolars, her debt has increased to almost 200 million, as a result of the late payment of interest. With a view to resolving this problem, on 27 November 2003, at the 31st ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, a law was adopted to amend and supplement the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava and, in 2004, to clarify the text of this Act, which provides for a solution to the problem presented in Section Transitional and Final Provisions in Article 3. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I ask you: Why and for what reasons does the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia not implement Article 3 in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Act on the Conditions of concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Thank you for your question. Mr President, it is true that, in the first paragraph of this Act, which was adopted in this National Assembly, the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava actually states in Article 3 that, irrespective of what is in the fifth paragraph of this Article 3 of this Act, the concessionaire's obligations to pay the part of the concession, which, in accordance with Article 6(3) of the Law, belongs to the local community, shall be reduced by the amount recognised to the concessionaire by virtue of the legal decisions of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia in 1999 and 2002, by which the municipality of Radeče was ordered to refund the overpaid compensation for the use of the building land. The second paragraph of this Article further provides that the details of the payment of the concession shall be laid down in the concession contract in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 3. So far, the facts, now the interpretation. The tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia states that the details of the mode of payment of the concession are not laid down in the concession contract or in the annex, which is a condition for the implementation of the above-mentioned legal provisions. On the basis of this, we therefore consider that only a properly supplemented concession contract will provide an appropriate basis for the implementation of Article 3 in the transitional and final provisions of this Act. Therefore, we must be committed to correcting the actual contract in order to include this, so that the tax administration can actually do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Would you like some more?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I am convinced that the failure to resolve this problem, or the increase in debt, is finally spilling state resources into a owned company. I think that one agreement needs to be made between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment and that this problem will nevertheless be resolved. At the end of the day, the local community or our Radeče municipality do not go into proper use because of the law on the financing of municipalities, so I think it is important that this problem be resolved quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u213	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u214	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, there's only a comment. I am grateful that you have warned us of this. The fact is that it is only today that I have actually learned that this law cannot be implemented because the concession is not properly implemented that this contract should be reviewed. That is why I will also look into this matter as soon as possible with colleagues from other ministries responsible for this. However, I must say that this law was passed in 2003 and nothing has happened for a year. I hope we can solve this problem for you soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u215	Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, Secretary-General of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As it is said, I am addressing the question to the Minister of Transport of Magi. Janez Christmas. Given that we are in the midst of intensive preparation for the start of the construction of three motorway sections on the pomur highway, namely Maribor-Lenart, Cogetinci-Vučja Vas and Lendava-Pince, which will start building in this year, I ask you first: In what transverse profile will the motorway be built? We know that the section of the Vučja vas-Beltinci motorway along Murska Sobota is built in the width of the lanes 3.5 meters instead of 3.75 meters and without exit belts, i.e. only with withdrawal niches, which is not in accordance with the 6th Article of the Regulation on the location plan for the Maribor motorway - the Slovenian-Hungarian border at the Vučja vas-Beltinci section. The Regulation is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. 63, August 6, 1999. There are different interpretations concerning actual categorisation and the actual cross-sectional profile of this section of the road. Most of the public are also convinced that it is not a highway, but only a fast road that allows speed up to 100 kilometers an hour and is, of course, dissatisfied with such a solution. I am also curious: What were the reasons for Dars’ decision to build a highway with no exit belts right on the ferry? And: How can a highway now be built at such an increase in traffic at the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the EU be extended to a motorway with a classic profile as we have on the other Slovenian motorway network? So I'm wondering, what transversal profile are the rest of the sections of the hillside of the highway going to be built in? Because we hope that in the northeastern part of Slovenia, because the last one gets the highway, we will not get the poor version of the highway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u217	Thank you. Here you go, Minister Mag. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the design of the profiles, motorways shall take into account the aspects which are identified mainly by the density and structure of traffic, the stage of construction, the technical design details and the difficulty and type of terrain in which they are taking place. On the basis of these points, the motorway profiles in the Republic of Slovenia are also formed and the rates between each profile allow for the most economical design of motorways. On the existing Slovenian highway network we have thus according to the criteria built various profiles of motorways, for example, Hrušica-Vrba, this is the so-called Gorenje highway, then the coastal highways, which are completely devoid of lanes, as well as the Štajerska motorway leg on the section of Slovenian Konjice-Dramlje. For the four motorway sections from Maribor to Pinc, the remaining two sections will be planned for the construction of the Pomur motorway in full, that is, the normal transversal profile, which is 26.20 meters, with the possibility of phase construction. In view of the density of both today's and the projected traffic, a study of possible rationalisations of normal transversal profiles on the A-5 Pesnica-Lendava motorway was prepared in 2002 from the point of view of the cost-effectiveness of the investment, which was also considered thoroughly by the Darsa Project Council in January 2003. In his conclusions, he agreed and supported the proposed rationalisations, which in fact meant the construction of the motorway from Maribor to Pirnica, with withdrawal belts, in the profile 24.6 meters, and further to the border with Hungary in the profile of 21.2 meters without withdrawal belts. The conclusions of the study served as one of the basis for the evaluation of investment values adopted by the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in February 2004. That is why we intend to build the Mooring Highway further in the proposed transversal profiles. In doing so, it should be pointed out that land purchases are carried out for a full cross-section and that bridge facilities, such as overpasses or undercarriages which could not be upgraded later, are already being built in the first phase in the width of the full profile, that is to say 26,2 metres wide. Traffic analyses also show that taking into account the increased freight traffic after Slovenia's entry into the European Union by an average of about 1,000 vehicles per day, taking into account the additional 5,100 vehicles per day after the construction of the Beltinc to Lendava motorway [[of which the majority of freight traffic is]] and, taking into account the approximately 100% increase in total traffic over the 20-year planning period, the capacity of the train in the selected profile will not be exceeded. The capacity of the four-passenger road is in the selected profile, i.e. 24.6 metres with lanes and below 21.2 metres without lanes, including with such volume of freight traffic, i.e. over 50,000 vehicles per day. With regard to the categorisation of the Moorish freeway, it is undoubtedly a highway as defined in the Public Roads Act, a state road which is intended for remote traffic of motor vehicles and which is an integral part of motorway links with neighbouring countries. The Pomur motorway is therefore meeting all the conditions for the categorisation of these roads as motorways in accordance with the Law on Public Roads, as it is linked to the motorway system of neighbouring countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Honorable assembly, distinguished minister, Mr. Mate! In Slovenia we have a centre for criminal and technical investigations, which was established in 1950 by the name of the Criminal Technical Laboratory. To date, its core activity has virtually not changed and the scope of forensic, criminal and technical investigations and the provision of expert opinions for the police as assistance in detecting and directing investigations, the provision of expert opinions for the police and the prosecution as an annex to the indictment and later to the indictment, and the provision of expert opinions on the basis of a court order for the purposes of proof and reconstruction. The Centre is set up as a sector within the Department of Criminal Police of the General Police Administration. In 1998, the Constitutional Court held that this centre was because the organisational unit of the body involved in the enforcement of criminal proceedings was not able to be trusted without reservation in the criminal proceedings. The consequences of this decision are as follows. Indictments supported by expert and expert opinions of the Centre shall not be accepted by the courts. The courts on important enforcement matters no longer assign centres for criminal and technical investigations, but often less skilled individuals and also request forensic laboratories abroad for investigations, although this would not be meaningful and necessary. This problem is therefore mainly of an organisational nature. I believe that the solution to the problem is the exclusion of the centre from the body involved in the detection and prosecution or allocation of such status, which also formally provides sufficient independence for the centre. So I ask the minister: Is he familiar with the position of this cent and when and how he intends to edit it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr. Minister Mate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u222	In the beginning, maybe just two sentences would say [[...]] [[Not included.]] For two years now, we have not had a centre for forensic and technical investigations because it has been renamed a forensic investigation centre. [[...]] Indeed, it has been located, as you described, within the criminal police sector of the Ministry of the Interior or the general police administration, with changes to the reorganisation that took place in the past year, in August 2004, this centre has been separated from the criminal administration of the general police administration and is now an autonomous organisational unit within the general police administration and is so professionally and managerially independent of the criminal police and subordinated directly to the Director-General of Police. This is a step further, but it still does not solve the whole or whole issue in this area. Perhaps he would mention only that it has been seven years since 1998. For six years, all the current police generals and ministers have been more or less familiar with this issue, and there has never been a right way to make a difference. In these 100 days, if we all mention them somehow, I have also learned about this open issue and the possible solutions that we are now studying. The dilemma that we are facing is, of course, if it is enough to move this centre from the police, if I say so, from the General Police Administration in the Ministry of the Interior, and whether it would already allow this authority to act impartially and deliver opinions that would be taken into account in the courts. By the way, we are the only European country that does not have its own national forensic investigation centre and, of course, we have serious problems with that. The body or people working there are very highly qualified, both theoretically and practically, and it is a great shame that we cannot use their knowledge as evidence in court. Another way to put this body is to put it under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice. And, of course, the third option is to put this body on its own as an agency. Each of these three options that I have described, of course, has some advantages and weaknesses. However, it will probably be necessary to resolve not only the status of the Centre for Forensic Investigations as a whole where it will be formally placed. It will probably be necessary to seek the right solutions in order to give individuals who are employed in this centre a status that will allow them to be experts. This status must, of course, be granted exclusively on professional grounds and also recognised by the courts and the prosecutions so that the matter can function effectively. And perhaps in these solutions, when we finally create them, even in consultation with the Ministry of Justice and other bodies that can participate constructively in the final resolution of this problem, it is probably best to bind these experts to a certain period of time when they have a licence, if I say so. This period should by no means be shorter, in my personal opinion, than five years. This would ensure their independence, independence and, above all, professionalism, which would help in the capture of perpetrators and later in effective convictions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u224	I thank the Minister for his reply. I am also aware of the fact that, in fact, since 1998, I have also mentioned this, a long time ago. I don't know why the former minister, such as Dr. Bohinc, didn't solve that problem. But I wanted to draw attention to the fact that this is actually a pressing problem, the core of the proceedings before the court and also of the premonition proceedings. That is why, of course, I wanted to know if you are dealing with this problem and if we can expect an appropriate solution in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u225	Thank you. Mr Milenko Ziherl will ask the Minister for Education and Sport and the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u227	I'm sorry. One moment. The Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u228	Within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy and within the framework of the renewed Lisbon Strategy, science, technological progress and lifelong learning have an important place. They are expected to provide new products, new technological processes, environmentally friendly and energy-efficient processes and thus new jobs and greater prosperity. Well, the state of innovation, lifelong learning and education does not reach the expectations of the Lisbon Strategy. I have in mind in particular poor results in the examination of knowledge in mathematics and science and perhaps elsewhere where it has not been checked. Then a long study in colleges and colleges. The next weakness is the structural distribution of students to the extreme damage of science and technology, for which interest is still falling. The following weakness are irregularities in universities where we witnessed the purchase of diplomas, then the lecturers, for example, were able to read in the newspaper that 150 hours were taught in four hours, had 108 graduates and 8 Masters, which is all over the regulations. In my day, two chemical scientists covered one doctorate, one master's degree, and three diplomas. Then there is the disconnect between research programmes at universities and institutions with the economy. Then the unwillingness of people, especially the elderly, to education, retraining. Above all, it is critical at present in activities that are in crisis and where production is closing. I am thinking of shoemaking and textiles, where in some Western countries we could prepare a prequalification programme for them and maybe become a Kevinnars or some other profile. We are also in the process of establishing a so-called innovation society somewhere in the beginning, as there are no incentives. I therefore ask the two ministers: Are there any measures already in place to address these shortcomings, and when can we expect them? And when can we expect the results of these measures, because if we start today, the first students will come out in four or five years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Dr. Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u230	Thank you so much for asking. I will try to answer at least that part of the questions that concern my area, which we are covering in the Ministry, I am covering. So, the Lisbon Strategy, you have rightly identified, stipulates that members should increase their interest in the set of mathematical and natural science programmes and the orientations of the subjects. We have already established coordination for education and training 2010 years ago, and in this context there is also a math and science group working and preparing a range of activities in this area. It is true that the latest results on this have been less successful, but we are trying to get the institutions, institutions, institutions that are dedicated to this, in particular the teaching institute and the educational institution, to prepare thorough analyses as soon as possible, on the basis of this, to take certain measures to eliminate this backlog, which our students have shown in comparison with their peers abroad, in the next round. There has already been one analysis on this subject on the Education Committee, and I think it will also be the subject of a debate at the plenary session of the National Assembly. We will provide all possible studies, which will then be made for discussion. In the field of secondary education and vocational education, which specifies the Lisbon Declaration, the so-called Copenhagen Declaration or some Copenhagen process is under way, which is trying to create certain standards in the field of vocational and professional education: from the certification system to the credit system, to the europass and a variety of other things. In short, the purpose is to standardise certain competences in the field of vocational and personal education and to compare them in Europe, to make them more transparent or to allow for greater transparency and mobility. What we have done at national level - or, say, what is happening now - is to try to give greater autonomy to high school institutions. Also ensure greater partnership between schools as well as links with the local environment, in particular with the economy. Here we can see that these schools, together with higher schools, are most responsive to the needs of the economy or the local environment. We're introducing new programs like megatronics, auto-servicers. I spoke earlier on the previous question about the new system of governance and financing in the field of secondary vocational education, so that what is going on here is a kind of activity and the reform process is quite lively, that is, in line with European expectations. Higher education, last year we passed, as you know, the law on higher education - we set up quality commissions. I can say that most of the cooperation here is also with the European Social Fund, we are opening new programmes, and we are also trying to introduce a credit system that ensures vertical and horizontal mobility and at the same time creates a higher education system, which will be a follow-up to the first cycle of the Bologna process, i.e. higher education. This year, we specifically supported the classification of study programmes in the so-called technical direction of technical study programmes. Also because the needs of the economy have been quite articulate. The area of adult education, we can also boast of the fact that- let's just say, we are only going to invest about 9 and a half billion Slovenian Tolars in this education this year and that the EU's share in co-financing these programmes is almost half. We place great emphasis on lifelong education. Here Slovenia has considerable opportunities to raise formal and informal forms of education and, of course, increase the competence of the adult population to improve the situation. Exactly in this area [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] European average. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Are you satisfied with the answer? Thank you very much. Mr Gantar will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u232	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking a question about Luke Koper's projects. On 4 January 2005, you informed the public, Mr Minister, that you had accepted representatives of the initiative committee of the local community of Ankaran, which is opponents of the construction of the third port of Luka Koper. Among other things, you have announced the establishment of an interdepartmental working group which will address the development of the port of Cyprus and its surroundings in a comprehensive manner. You mentioned or said that the further spatial development of Luka Koper would be regulated by the State Location Plan instead of the existing and valid spatial documentation prepared by the Municipality of Koper. On 20 January, the Government, as I was informed, set up an Inter-Resort Working Group for the comprehensive treatment of the development of the port of Cyprus and its influential area, which is also expected to participate in the preparation of the State's plan for the management of port infrastructure at Port Luka Koper. My question, Mr Minister, is: what has the Interdepartmental Group done in particular in these two months? Have you already received a documented initiative from the Minister, your neighbour responsible for transport, to prepare a national location plan, including an explanation? What has the Ministry of Environment and Space done with regard to the preparation of the State's site plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u233	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member of Dr. Paula Gantar! Everything you said in the introduction to your question of the House is true. I also find that, for now, everything I have foretold has also happened. The government Inter-Resort Working Group is chaired by a colleague of the Minister of Mag. Janez Christmas. During this time - and I am also a member of this Interdepartmental Group - it met at four meetings and prepared for decision-making in the government very largely, with carriers, hands, content and variants of materials to be addressed by the Government in the coming days. The only shame is that the government has not yet considered and accepted this material, so I will not be able to answer all your questions, not least out of correctness to the government procedure. Because your key question, which touches the department that I am running, is the answers in the alternative solutions, and the government will then decide which one it will take. In addition to the mandate of this Interdepartmental Group to assess the validity of the proposal for a State site plan for the entire port infrastructure, it has received two other important tasks. The first, which is very important and difficult, is to draw up guidelines for the development of the port of Cyprus, including a comprehensive regulation of mutual legal relations, from real-law to concessional arrangements for the performance of the port public service, the regulation of maritime use relations for the performance of port activities, and to take account of the documents already drawn up. So, this commitment, this task is with materials, with hands like I said before, and with solutions to government conclusions. And she was given another task to develop the guidelines that will be represented by the Republic of Slovenia as the institution of management entitlements in connection with the business development of Luka Koper, d.d. Also in the form of a decision, this responsibility for government material has already been prepared. And now your very specific question, which touches on the instrument of the state location plan, and what has been done by the ILO Resor at that time. As Minister, I myself, together with my colleagues at the meetings of the Interdepartmental Group with extensive material, prepared positions for the government. And in the context of the material, a comprehensive review and assessment of the actual situation in the port of Kore, particularly in view of the spatial problem of all the last ten years, has been prepared. We have therefore prepared this material in very detail, as well as in terms of its environmental impact, with all arguments, expertise and others, with all the laws and European directives in force in the Slovenian legal order. We have found that, although there is a very large concentration of activities and interests in the space in the wider area of the port, the conceptual assessment of the entire port area, if I may say so, both in terms of internal development and also in terms of the impact on the development of the town of Koper, as well as Ankara and other hamlets, and also in terms of natural and cultural values, has never been carried out before. And although there is a large number of diverse, conditionally complementary activities, which may be problematic in terms of environmental protection, their cumulative or synergistic impact has never been fully assessed. And given that several conflicting opinions have recently been very clear in the context of the environment, we believe that there is an undisputed need for different public interests to be weighed, including by private interests. In such cases, the system instrument established by the new spatial legislation is a spatial implementing act called the State Location Plan. For the government's own meeting, we have drawn up several options within the Interdepartmental Group, how we can reach it, and as soon as the government adopts one of the options, we will also provide it to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u236	Thank you very much. First of all, I must say that I do not understand why, because the government has not yet addressed the material, I could not get an answer to two very specific questions. Have you already received a documented initiative to draw up a national location plan? The answer is very clear: yes or no. And in addition: Has this period run 12 to 18 months, as you said, that you will spend preparing this national location plan? Of course, I would say that the spatial planning process under Slovenian legislation is a very open process of participatory participation of the population and is public in all phases. That's why I don't understand. I would also like to say this, although I will not go into the content, conceptual initiatives and conceptual solutions to the coast, ports, the wider area with the latter have already been made very much. I could now list at least three or four in different workshops with a Mediterranean initiative, etc. I therefore doubt that you will once again be doing a conceptual initiative, a conceptual design that will actually reveal what has probably been discovered many times before, revealed and of course well known on the coast. I would like to add to my question: Has this initiative for the use of the site plan been mediated or not yet transmitted, and is this period 12 to 18 months already running?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u238	Thanks for the extra question. As for many, as you said, already-formed professional positions, public views, round tables. The Government's conclusion explicitly states that this Interdepartmental Group will take into account the documents already drafted. No document will go past us, and anything that is acceptable can be taken into account. Second. On your particular question whether the Minister of Transport is a competent minister, that is, the Minister of Transport has already taken the initiative to draw up a national location plan. No, he hasn't given it yet. Understandably, he did not give it, for first it is necessary to wait for the government to decide which way to go. That's the only concrete answer. The answer to your third question when this probationary period will begin to run for 12 to 18 months is that from the moment the government decides on one of the roads. This is said to be my assumption that this deadline will begin to run in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Slavinec asks the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that. Certainly one of the objectives of our transport policy must also be to redirect passengers to public transport. This will undoubtedly be achieved with appropriate quality, competitiveness and all other factors affecting when passengers decide how they travel. Unfortunately, the quality and competitiveness of our rail transport are not exactly focused on achieving this objective. In ensuring the quality and welfare of passengers on trains we cannot possibly be satisfied, even more so, because on certain routes the situation is objectively worse than it was decades ago or more. In particular, on the longest-lasting route to Pomour, a green train, which was equipped with an air conditioning and the like, drove a long time ago. Now driving Intercity, where of course the air conditioner does not work, drives for a very long time, completely uncompetitive compared to foreign carriers. He also does not follow the timetable, for he is permanently late. This, of course, not only causes passengers not to arrive in time, but often also delays the connection to the next train. That's what's causing more trouble. That is why, Mr. Minister, I wonder: Does the Ministry of Transport monitor the competitiveness of rail passenger transport? What does the Ministry of Transport intend to do to increase the quality of this transport, reduce transport time, eliminate delays and place railways competitive not only for our domestic other public transport, but also for the situation abroad, especially for Europe? I would also like to ask: Does the holding of Slovenian Railways have a time-bound plan to purchase the missing modern train compositions and thus a plan to complete the modernisation of the driving assets of the subsidiary passenger transport? How will the State, as 100% owner of the Slovenian Railway Holding Company, participate in this update, which must be part of the further restructuring and development of the company? The railways essentially made sure that Slovenia was not a small country. From Hodosh to Venice, driving takes almost as long as it takes from Venice to the end of Italy. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much for the question of the Member of Parliament, Dr Mitja Slavica. I agree with your assessment that public passenger transport, especially rail, has not been given adequate attention in the past, which, last but not least, reflects the fact that the average travel speed in passenger transport on Slovenian railways was 52.6 kilometres per hour between January and February 2005. In particular, this low speed is due to the extremely poor situation of rail infrastructure and to insufficient investment in the past in the modernisation of the rail network. While the purchase of new passenger trains and tilted trains has improved the comfort of passengers, it has not contributed to higher speeds or simplified words, there is nothing to help us with a fast car on the macadam road. It will therefore be necessary to invest significantly more in the development and modernisation of rail infrastructure over the next period. In the Coalition Treaty, we have undertaken or made a commitment to raise the quality of services intended for public passenger users in rail passenger transport and to ensure adequate long-term systemic financing of public passenger transport, which will ensure affordable rail transport and the proper development of passenger rail transport. At the last meeting, which was held between the Ministry of Transport and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the first concrete guidelines for the future concept of public passenger transport, not only in railways, included the concept of public passenger transport, which must be linked to rail transport with a harmonised timetable and also to the objective of a single ticket. Perhaps a few statistics from the analysis of individual vehicle types, i.e. vehicles. According to age, 13.1% of motor suits and 31% of locomotives and 35% of passenger cars are over 30 years old. These vehicles will have to gradually remove Slovenian railways from the rolling stock and replace them with new modern ones in the shortest possible future. On the question of what the Ministry of Transport or what it intends to do to increase the quality of this transport. At the Ministry itself, we are preparing a new programme for the development of public railway infrastructure, which will define infrastructure development, which will undoubtedly also affect the quality of transport. The question of whether holding Slovenian Railways has a financial and time-bound plan to purchase missing modern passenger trains and thus plans to complete the modernisation of the means of transport, including the subsidiaries of passenger transport. Between 2004 and 2010, the purchase of 21 new modern cars is planned, but the modernisation of the fleet segment is also dependent on the dynamics of providing financial resources. At this point, a strategic plan, the programme, is already under preparation. We expect that for all other areas, the state road network will be somewhat over 6,000 kilometres in kilometres and the so-called B programme of motorways that do not have the financial structure provided, as well as the development of the railway infrastructure, which, of course, will also be checked by the government in some way and made appropriate decisions. Holding Slovenian Railways PE, passenger transport in the framework of the strategic project SP 10, namely modernisation of the fleet of towing and towing vehicles and rationalisation of maintenance of these vehicles, and on the basis of solutions to this project, a so-called study, assessment of the eligibility of the purchase or rental of new passenger vehicles is being prepared. What will be the country that owns this Slovenian holding company 100% [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The railways involved in this update will, however, be able to provide the country's appropriate guarantees for the purchase of driving equipment, which will, of course, allow the Slovenian Railways holding to purchase under appropriate conditions, but still on the basis of a financing model that we will prepare before this year's holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u243	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u244	Thank you very much for your answer. Given the relatively long time dynamic, I am interested in how you will try with the existing options if, how to ensure that on some routes, especially on those that last longer, the quality level of the offer is comparable to that of some time ago. First of all, what are the criteria for sorting or selecting the quality of train compositions on individual tracks? On those longer-term routes, it would be objectively expected to ensure that passengers are provided with adequate comfort, quality and, of course, possible delays that are shown to be permanent and prevented in the future, since they are likely to be predictable in this way. What is the reason or reason for the compositions gathered here? Some then feel justified for less valuable citizens. That's the reaction from the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u245	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u246	Thank you very much for the additional question. I would answer the following question to the Member of Parliament. The problem we are dealing with right now is the lack of resources for the 2005 budget visa. The number there is known to be about 26 billion tolars. This is our most important problem right now. We are aware of the problem of raising the quality of services in this rail transport and will, as part of the further preparation of the assessments, assess how much we can invest in the construction of the infrastructure itself and even under the very conditions, actually verify and determine how much investment is needed in these matters. And what is related to the improvement of the services themselves is linked to the work of the Slovenian Railway Holding as a railway infrastructure manager. Of course, we will also give you this information through specific short-term measures. The question of criteria, however, I propose that we give them later in that form.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Geza Juban will ask the Minister for Education and Sport the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Minister, newspaper pages, radio and television shows have recently been filled in regarding the appointment of a principal at Beltinci primary school. The term of office of the Director has expired and the same Director has appeared as a candidate for the following term of office. For her appointment, which is under your jurisdiction, she was accompanied by the collective's consent, with the consent of the Council of the Institute and the municipal council. Nevertheless, following the interim complications of the candidate, you did not appoint a principal for the following period. Why? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u250	Thank you very much for your question. One of the ministers' powers is to give consent or not to give consent to appoint directors. The practice of my predecessors has also been that everyone used both institutions, both options. My predecessor issued about one consent per month and one disagreement per month, and on average there is one consent per day, so much of it. I'm much more modest about this, so in three months and a half, I've only given up one disagreement and it's already been, there's been a big storm about it. I would not like to prejudge the matter, the fact is that we received letters and complaints of proceedings at the Ministry on 17 February and 25 February, on the procedure, as well as on certain investment works, in view of the irregularities of the school management, so I considered it reasonable to suspect that something might be wrong. We've handed these things over to an inspector who should check the matter, and I didn't want to give my consent in any way to manage such responsible work. If the matter is clear, if the municipality does its part, verify how it was with the investment business, then there is no reason why the said person would not be agreed in the future. But if, of course, it turns out otherwise, of course, she will not have that agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Do you still want it? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u252	Medclic was to mediate some dates as well. On 1 March, information was sent to the school collective that the concerns are as mentioned by the Minister. On 3 March, the collective replied, but on 4 March there was already a negative opinion from the Ministry, which did not give consent to the appointment. In this letter, mentioned here, the problem is in fact that this letter was written by two local government party officials, I think that the SDS municipal committee and the Beltinci sub-region, who apparently took the authority to decide the fate of the principal. In addition to the positive consents of the previous ones, I think that this Mr Minister can confirm that there was all consensus, but there was a period when it was possible to verify the situation or some concerns. I personally don't know this principal and I don't care, but the public was upset because the question is whether it will be necessary to continue to have someone named, a member of a suitable party, or whether the policy of government parties will decide on a local level, who will be named for anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u253	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u254	You probably don't expect me to answer my last insinuation. But you probably don't expect me to give my consent like this, even though there's, like, a suspicion that something's wrong in a particular institution. I told you, I don't want to give my consent without a doubt. And I'll issue that when the time is right. Nothing burns the water, the school's leadership stays the same. If it turns out that everything's okay, she'll get a vote if it doesn't turn out that something's wrong, but she won't get that consent. I don't see any reason for a storm here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u255	Mr Ljubo Germič will ask the Minister for Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u256	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Respectable ministers. In our country, it has been forbidden for several years to produce, put on the market and use asbestos and asbestos products. Unfortunately, we still have to face a great deal of asbestos and asbestos products in our environment, as a dangerous legacy of times when asbestos, despite some warnings in the developed countries, was considered to be little more than miraculous material. In recent years, several sub-legislative rules governing the management of asbestos have entered into force in our country, namely the Regulation on the conditions under which asbestos-containing materials, the Regulation on the management of asbestos-containing waste and the Regulation on the emission of asbestos into the air and the disposal of waste water may be removed. I am interested in Mr Minister: How do the competent inspectorates monitor the implementation of these prescriptions mainly in the replacement of construction materials containing asbestos? All too often, for example, there is a non-professional replacement of solar panels by an operator who is not qualified to handle asbestos cement waste, which is placed in illegal landfills or even used as a material to strengthen different pathways. According to some data, about 20,000 tonnes of asbestos cement building material should be replaced annually in Slovenia in the coming years. Does the Ministry of the Environment and Space have an assessment of the potential asbestos cement waste, how does it plan to monitor the management of these wastes and whether it considers possible media actions to sensitize the general public about the risk of these wastes? I would also like to ask: Does the Ministry of Environment and Space consider it necessary to introduce financial incentives for the professional replacement of construction materials containing hazardous asbestos and for the professional management of this data? According to my data, as investors for such works, citizens can only obtain a loan from the Republic of Slovenia’s Ecological Development Fund, and that is only for part of the investment value. Thank you so much for the answers, already in the front.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u257	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u258	Thank you for the question, my respectable colleague Ljubo Germić. The question related to the consequences of asbestos products is very complex. I would go in kind, as far as inspections are concerned, then an assessment of the potential asbestos cement products or waste in Slovenia, public awareness and financial stimulation. The environmental and nature inspection, within the framework of the powers laid down by the Environmental Protection Act and the Inspection Control Act, shall exercise control over waste management containing asbestos. The specific directive has been adopted on preventing and reducing the pollution of the environment by asbestos and the Directive has been fully transposed into the Slovenian legal order also through the rules which the Member has already quoted and some are additional. In addition to the inspection for the environment and nature, inspectors responsible for the work shall exercise control over the provisions of the Regulation relating to working conditions and the implementation of measures to protect workers while working with these materials. According to the annual work plan, the environmental and natural inspection of asbestos-containing wastes has been carried out at three levels over the last two years. It supervised persons who had been authorised to handle asbestos-containing wastes, controlled the handling of these wastes in demolitions and supervised hazardous waste landfills. According to the data I obtained today, in 2003 there were 43 such reviews, last year only 9. The most common infringements identified in these procedures have occurred in the management of waste asbestos- cement construction waste [[Criterion and tubing]] . Several cases have also been found where asbestos-cement cover removals, over 1,000 square metres, were carried out by operators who did not have any authority to do such works. It is understandable that then the inspections acted in accordance with the powers. The second question is whether we have an assessment at the ILO of the potential for asbestos-cement products and waste. When an operational waste management programme was developed for the period 2004-2008, it was assumed that approximately 466,000 tonnes of asbestos-cement cover was sold in Slovenia between 1982 and 1997. Some of this cover has already been removed. Assuming that the lifetime of these products would expire somewhere between 2002 and 2020, we have estimated that some 24,000 tonnes of waste asbestos-cement cover per year will arise statistically over this period. The assessment of the Ministry of Environment and Space is, from this operational handling of asbestos cement products, it is assumed that approximately 400,000 tonnes of asbestos-cement waste will arise between 2004 and 2020. Your third question touches the public's media awareness. I strongly support this issue. My answer is next. At the Ministry, we will prepare, together with the Slovenian Agency for Nature Protection, a special brochure or a scroll on asbestos with at least the following content: general asbestos, then asbestos coverage, as well as information on other asbestos products. In particular, this information will be supplemented by information on where these wastes can be disposed of, in what way, under what technical conditions and so on. And your question, which is about financial incentives. According to the data I obtained, the environmental development fund mentioned by you helped replace 43,000 square metres of coverage in 2003 and significantly more than 84,000 square metres of this coverage in last year. And as has already been said, so far the only formal instrument in force is a credit to citizens for replacing roof coverings containing asbestos fibres. However, this replacement may only be made by operators who are registered for roofing and chatting activities and must also sign a specific declaration. The Eco Fund then occasionally and causatively controls on the ground whether the substitution of criticism has indeed been carried out and usually does not use such criteria for other purposes, such as covering trees, which was a very well-known practice in Slovenia. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] However, I do not have a definitive answer to your question whether we will also introduce additional financial incentives for the professional replacement of construction materials. [[...]] And this is a challenge for my mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u260	Maybe just one more question. You mentioned the activities of the inspection services in 2003 and 2004. We see that there are significantly fewer in 2004 and you also mentioned the number of replacements in 2003 and 2004, when there were significantly more. Does this mean that awareness is significantly higher, or is the activity of inspection services significantly lower or less necessary in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u261	Thanks for the extra question. I hope that awareness is significantly greater. But it's very important how these wastes are disposed of. Although hazardous waste by its nature can be disposed of by law, it can be disposed of to municipal landfills. But with a clear technique, these wastes are being pumped and so on. I believe that there have been some practices in Slovenia in recent weeks and months, which were quite contrary to what I have just mentioned. Here is the task of specific inspection services to react very clearly and then propose sanctions for those who do not comply with the applicable legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Your Honor, I hope not too tired a minister of health. I would like to ask you about some of your decisions, which I think are contrary to the principle of economy and the efficiency of spending public funds. It is the purchase of a linear accelerator and the purchase of operating tables, where you have apparently forgotten about this principle. At the time of your transfer, the former Minister informed you of the arguments that the price of the linear accelerator is off-duty and suggested that you repeat the invitation to tender. The LDS presented at the press conference evidence of the price that such equipment reaches abroad and from which it can be concluded that the price of equipment in Slovenia was at least 200 million tolars high. The State Audit Commission has also repeatedly explained in its views that the possible accommodation of the complainants to the elements of the tender does not mean that the buyer must buy the equipment, especially if he is convinced that the price is too high. The purchase of equipment at such a price was justified by the urgent need of patients. This is undeniablely true, but with a loose understanding of such an attitude you can make the blackmailing of suppliers legal, since in health care most purchases are necessary. This urgency does not prevent you from cancelling the procedure for the purchase of 19 operating tables, where one of the suppliers is, that is, the one who was the supplier of the table in the insolvent case of the Clinical Centre, with all the manoeuvres, convinced that there would be any opening of tenders. Now that the opening of the offers finally took place, and it turns out that some tables, which are also widely used in developed countries, are as low as half the cost at the Clinical Center tables, you have rejected all offers. As some bidders have now complained about such a decision, you have blamed, how conveniently, again on the previous minister, even though it is clear that you could choose a provider to obtain tables that would be half as cheap as those purchased at the Clinical Centre. I ask you: How is it possible for you to buy at a retail price for this concern due to the lack of financial resources that you expressed two hours ago to Mr Germić while at the same time rejecting equipment at appropriate low prices? Does Dr. Janez Zajc also advise you in this course of action, who was the main actor in the high-profile trades with the operating tables at the Clinical Center? Is this about rehabilitating the people involved in the purchase? If you re-elect the most expensive bidder, you will spend at least half a billion public money, together with the difference in the price of the accelerator. How much necessary equipment could we buy for the lost half billion is, of course, the most clear to you. Or are you going to reduce insurance rights in this account? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u265	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for the question that shows a complete lack of awareness of the situation in this area and has been made in a Member or in a party group, a committee, on the basis of some misleading data. The question you asked me compares the incomparable thing, and at the same time it is completely incorrect. That's more of a claim you said than a question. We have not rejected any offer of operating tables so far, which has been cheaper and even cheaper. The expert commission for the conduct of the public tender procedures appointed by the former Minister, this Commission, in the same composition, rejected all offers for 19 operating tables for several Slovenian hospitals because none of these offers were correct and because, on the basis of the law in force, of which we have already proposed appropriate amendments, could not have done otherwise. You were, of course, completely deceived by someone who was at the heart of the event in the previous term in this information you mentioned here. Of course, even less by object, and not by process cannot be compared between the procurement of these 19 operating tables with the recently purchased linear accelerator with the stereotactic and dosimetric equipment for the oncological institute in Ljubljana, which were the reason for the above-mentioned proposal for amendments to the Public Procurement Act. Although in grave doubts about the price offered, the Ministry of Health, which was also initiated by the previous Minister with the wrong call, had to conclude with the purchase of equipment, because both the decision and the only possible decision, was not true that we could have done anything else, although at the end stage we could have decided to do so, but at that time the only possible solution was at the time after the two successive decisions of the State Audit Commission were then decided to purchase this apparatus. Once again, this is due to the wrong invitation to tender in the previous ministry, which did not even distinguish stereotactic equipment from the additives needed for this and for which the price is around 200 million. Of course, with such explanations and such questions as you are now asking, I find that you don't know things and that this thing has probably been a little recommended to you to present it here today, because I've been talking about the same thing on TV for half an hour now, with this actor of course. But we decided to do this, for this purchase because we wanted to help patients who are waiting for radiation, who have cancer, and who, if we wait a long time, will be waiting for you in the same way that you had in your previous term, waiting a long time and that's why we're dying. That's not how we decided. However, we have decided on a way in which we will buy appropriate equipment as quickly as possible for patients in the future, but it will also be cheap. This will be achieved in two ways to simplify the process on the one hand, to prevent future unnecessary complaints such as the current legislation permits and, on the other hand, to control the prices of those who have actually been able to set too high prices for which there is no particular data. What you're saying is that you have some information and that the former minister is also talking about, of course, those prices nowhere and I've never even seen, let alone those prices are true. Once these prices are right, when I actually get this data, then we can start talking about possibly a high price. As for the 19 operating tables and other instigations that occurred here in connection with the Rabbit's detention, he had nothing to do with the matter. I guarantee you 100%, except I can tell you that he was fired for once in court. If that doesn't mean anything to you, then it's just a matter of how some look at the court's decisions. Where appropriate, there shall be a decision of the court, where it is not appropriate, and neither shall there be. Such a way has been in force for a long time, and I hope that it will be no more in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u267	Interestingly, so far in all 40 questions, at least I didn't find the answer as angry as this one. I didn't ask you anything but the way you're wondering. I don't know how you did it when you were an MP. Questions are forming within the Group of Members and one of the Members presents the question in this way. My intention was to get a clear answer, to get your assurances that you thought you were doing the right thing, that you were doing the right thing. You're sure about that, we're not sure about that. You are blaming the former minister who seems responsible for everything, including this expert committee, who now, under your leadership, has now found that no offers are appropriate, but at the same time you denied her earlier, how badly she prepared the invitation to tender. This indicates some confusion in the conduct of some start-up period until, of course, you prepare such a basis for calls that would suit you and, like you, you feel that you would thus provide the choice in the way you want. I don't even want to have a complementary answer, but if you have anything else to say about it, I'll be happy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u268	I did not answer indignantly, I answered some of the insinuations that have arisen in this question and to which I was obliged to answer. However, I was particularly obliged to answer these questions half an hour ago after dealing with the former Minister on television, where the exact same questions arose, the exact same deceptions that you presented here. All I did was answer that question, and I have nothing to add to what I said, and I'm gonna say it again. First of all, it means the most to me that we're going to cure the patients. Whether it is in any situation, you will now find out or find out that after the purchase of a contract that the previous ministry was still running, now some table or some material was overpaid, of course in this case - we can figure it out later. This is the most important moment for patients to receive a table or an accelerator that will treat patients so that some individuals and their stubbornness do not cause them to suffer. We will already settle these matters in our mandate, with our calls and in a manner that will also be legal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has a question for the Minister for Education and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u270	I ask Minister Zver a question: Why did Novo mesto decide in the case of the elementary school of Bršlin in the municipality of Novo mesto as he had decided? Why did he choose a model for segregation, for separating children from education based on ethnicity? Mr Beast, don't you think this is an approach that is not supported anywhere in the European Union? You don't think we're in Slovenia in 2005, and we're not in the South of the United States where the federal states once proved African-American intellectual incompetence? Do you think that Roma children are intellectually less capable than Slovenian children, given that you have automatically pushed them into a separate group, no matter what their actual level of knowledge is? Nor do you think that the way similar to that in Slovakia is exemplary in Slovakia, where separate Roma kindergartens were separate from the Roma schools where the programmes were adapted, the model was questioned or strongly criticized by the European Union. But we don't need to look back into the European Union, we need to ask our parents and even the schoolchildren, but we certainly don't support such segregation as you have done, of course, as we have seen, under some alibi that you have solved some current situation as a savior, and in our opinion you have caused great irregularities in this society that may still have major consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u272	Of course, I will not thank you for this question, as we have thanked for all the other questions, because it is unfair and insulting and in some ways trivial. We all know what has happened and what has happened at this school in recent years, that there have been sharp conflicts between one and the other group of parents, including the Roma being Slovenians, among other things, I do not separate them from the Roma and call them Not-Slovaks, like you. And there was a conflict when it even threatened not to teach at this school. It is easy to be smart and theoretical, but in this situation, the Minister had to solve the educational process and find an optimal solution that would satisfy both sides. This solution satisfied both sides and was unanimously adopted. True, some have smoked and smoked and burned a lot. Of course, those who did so are not hell, and hell is another, and it still burns them. I must say that the situation seen in the cabinet here from Ljubljana is significantly different from the situation at this school, so on the ground. The approximate model that we have developed together in the ministry with professional services - not the minister himself was not the savior - corresponds to some general standards, including laws and does not conflict with general directives, guidelines or European directives. This is a generally accepted model, for example, in Finland and we also know similar solutions, even legal ones. These are special learning groups where students have special learning needs. These models are different in Europe from special education and so on. In short, it's not about segregation, it's not about establishing any special departments, no special schools like you want to present it. Although it was already during the time of your minister, the minister of your party, the school and there was a school that had special departments and you never said that Minister Gaber or anyone else had previously segregated Romani children. Now it is not about establishing specific departments, it is now about establishing specific learning groups, which is a systemic solution that is also known abroad, not only in Slovakia, but it is a different model. Otherwise, the fact is as follows. If you are trying to integrate children too intensively into a group or one group into a majority social group, you are violently assimilated, I do not know if you achieve the optimal result and their satisfaction. Here was the main reason for this, in addition to safety, in addition to the feeling of no child safety, also the quality of teaching that limped in both groups. So on the one hand, we can have a very violent assimilation and integration that you're obviously staring at, and on the other hand, instead of segregation, you can use a positive concept, autonomy or positive discrimination. Do you think the logic of minority schools is based on the assimilation of Hungarian and Italian minorities? They're never optimally clean solutions. There are no clean solutions. Here is an intermediate solution, an intermediate solution that does not depart from the general directives of inclusion, integration, nor is it contrary to the legal provisions. For example, Article 37 says that students of one or more classes or departments may be assigned to study groups in the educational work. The standards and standards for the formation of teaching groups shall be laid down by the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u274	As soon as I can comment on your nuanced facts in a short time to raise an additional question. You're saying we all know what happened at this school. More or less, not all of us, we know what happened at this school. Facts that occurred before October, in short, during the pre-election period, went in the direction where, in fact, the excitement, dispersion, disagreements between the Roma and the Slovenian population took place very intensely. And these facts also resulted in impatience, which in some way resolved on the burdens of children and schools. These are the facts. Another time. You're saying the solution you came here with pleased both sides. The New York Roma Councillor made it clear that Roma representatives do not want their children to be treated as less valuable at school with the intended division. Also, representatives of parents who had collected about 400 signatures to distribute their children evenly, after all the schools in the New Town congregation, did not agree. But I ask you: In this case, if this kind of tension, as I say, was a client's artificially challenged by this involvement of children, continues to cause conflicts, what will you and your President do to stop your, I will say, activists in Slovenia from causing harm to citizens and citizens, especially the youngest generations in the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u275	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u276	I really didn't get that last one. What do you mean? Please, if you can explain the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u277	Please, if you can explain the question one more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u278	In view of the fact that school impatience was created by the artificial introduction of an impatient atmosphere, which has resulted in conflicts that you have resolved so favourably, I wonder if such impatience will continue and will be at the expense of children and their integration and segregation, as you say, what will you do if such tensions are still present in other schools? Will you then segregate other Roma children in cases where you have to solve such tensions, not the way they integrate, but the segregation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u280	It would be very good for all to come forward, all political parties, in order to minimise such intolerance. I would particularly like to ask the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia for this, even in the New Town case, in the case of Brclin. Of course, we will do so in accordance with the laws and regulations, nothing contrary to them, nor with international declarations, recommendations, guidelines, conventions, even in the future. I hope that the escalations, the new escalating conflicts between these groups will not take place in the future. We will also try to introduce or consider whether the model of segregation you are forgetting, which I inherited as the legacy of the former ministry, should be brought to a better, more humane level than it is now. This too will need to be considered and found a favourable solution for the school in question, which has two such departments, which I have only learned in recent days. I would like such issues, which are actually pressing, which cause worse conflicts, not to be politicised. We found an agreement and a conflict, and both sides agreed with that model until the party's politicisation came forward later, later on, and when some changed their minds and no longer held an agreement. The gentleman you are talking about agreed with the solution, with this model, because their children will not have to be transported violently, to other schools. This was his key criterion for a solution and was in line with this solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Finally, the final question. Mr Mitja Slavinec will give it to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. I warn you, the Minister is not in the Chamber. So I ask you: In what form do you want the answer, in writing or orally at the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u282	I will ask the question and expect an oral answer to the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u283	Okay. Please ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u284	I am interested in the official position of the Ministry regarding the position of the recent president of the SDS Council of Experts and the new president of the Higher Education Council until the conclusion of the meetings of the Council for Higher Education for the Public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-21-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u285	Thank you very much. This concludes the Members' questions. I thank the Prime Minister, who was present and all the ministers present, for the answers given. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 4th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
