ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the continuation of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that you have been detained and cannot attend today's meeting only Bevk from 2 p.m. on and Ambassador Majda Shirca. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Gasilence. In doing so, I inform you that two hours and 35 minutes are foreseen for the debate. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration, so I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation [[10 minutes]] . Representative of the government, Minister Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u2	Your Honor, the House of Honor! You have before you the first law with which we have a significant impact on the changes and additions to the system's legislation in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. As you know, we are also preparing amendments to the bill on protection against natural and other disasters and amendments to the law on protection against fire. These changes relate to the need to update this legislation, to align it with the situation achieved and to upgrade it in some parts. Let me say that this legislation was adopted in 1993-1996 and, in view of the current nature of this area, it is imperative that we complete these laws. Like I said, there's a fire department law in front of you. Let me say it's an extremely important marriage. Given that reforms have already been implemented in the defence system and that the protection and rescue system is an important part of the national security subsystem, there are reasons for this change. The news of this area certainly confirms not only daily traffic and other accidents, but also major natural disasters, especially as we experienced this year in July, floods, storms in Posavje, in Celje, floods in Mura and so on. In all these cases, it has been shown how important it is that the fire rescue service is properly organised, in particular adequately equipped and trained. The firefighters must have established themselves as a general rescue service in all environments. This is a direction that the Ministry of Defence has been following for years after independence. Your Honor! We have prepared a law on amendments and additions to the Firearms Act, coordinated for an extremely long time. Let me say that we have coordinated three times with the community of Slovenian municipalities, several times with the Fire Union of Slovenia, even twice on their spoils. I am convinced that by means of this law we are solving the essential problems of firefighting. The law allows for involvement in the implementation of protection, rescue and assistance for all firefighting units, including voluntary units, even though their development, as you know, is not even across the whole country, particularly in the western part. Here we are trying to balance this imbalance with Crassus. Nevertheless, with new institutes such as the time of arrival at the time of the accident and the fire coverage standard following the categorisation of the fire brigades and the typification of their main equipment, we continue to provide conditions for greater transparency and diligence in the implementation of the public fire service. In particular, our goal is to improve quality, efficiency and rationality. This law also ensures the integration of the voluntary and professional work of firefighting. Instead of over-diversity, the law enforces the uniform status and position of professional firefighters in public institutions as part of the public sector. In this way we will also implement a collective industry contract where the status and position of professional firefighters will be more precisely defined. The law also lays down the appropriate competences of the fire liaisons. We believe that it is necessary for fire liaisons to be those who guide the development of firefighting, that we cannot leave this to individual societies or authorities of local self-government alone. This law gives certain powers to fire liaisons, thus providing planned training, equipment and preparedness for more than 1,500 units at local level. Let me say that at this point, the volunteer firefighter system has about 20,000 operative firefighters and actually represent the backbone of the general rescue service. Let me say that we do not interfere with the independence of local authorities or local communities when we determine the appropriate powers of fire liaisons. This law is also an important complement to solutions that prevent the implementation of operational fire brigades from being managed for a viable purpose, as this would, in our opinion, be the end of voluntary firefighting. Dear Members and Members! Despite the great efforts made by this law, we cannot arrange for the stable financing of the fire service in the municipalities, as required in particular by voluntary firefighters. In order to address this problem, I agree with Minister Zhagar, in order to ensure, in the context of the reform of the local government's funding system, the financing of emergency firefighting activities and other security and rescue forces, as this is only a condition for a necessary level of security in all municipalities. I also look forward to your support in resolving this issue once the relevant legislative changes have come to the National Assembly. I also expect your support for the integration of appropriate incentive solutions into the rules on the insurance system, as well as in the tax system, which will allow for the proper regulation of the relationship of a voluntary firefighter or rescuer and employer. Let me say that in comparable countries this issue is addressed in particular by the insurance system. While we have incorporated several provisions governing the relationship between a voluntary firefighter and a employer and the relationship relating to his participation in interventions and training, all within the framework of existing labour law. Of course, we cannot change these laws. Nevertheless, we will continue to strive to adapt the work of firefighters with appropriate organisational and technical solutions to the conditions of the modern market economy. To a certain extent, this is also contained in the amendment of Article 4(5) of the draft law, which explains the concepts used in the law. The amendment, which we do not object to for its purpose, does not solve or improve legal solutions. It would be more appropriate, and we propose that the assembly should adopt a separate decision to regulate this area in other laws. The same parliamentary group has also tabled an amendment to Article 31, under which sanctions on employers or responsible persons are not to be applied and pronounced until the employer who employs an operational volunteer firefighter has been designated by law. Unfortunately, we do not know such a solution in our legal order. We also believe that, in terms of the integrity of the changes and the completion of the Firearms Act, this solution cannot be supported. A respected choir! I propose that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Firearms Act be supported and adopted. I am confident that this will enable a quality continuation of the more than 135-year-old tradition of Slovenian firefighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u3	Minister, thank you. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Anton Anderlich, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u4	Your Honor! The Defence Committee has considered the Fire and Fire Act. This law is one of those to whom congregations must or may give opinions, for certain tasks also apply to the congregation’s jurisdiction and responsibility. We have received from about a dozen congregations opinions on the law. A number of amendments have also been tabled, but the Committee has only adopted those amendments which have emerged on the proposal of the Legal and Legislative Service due to the non-consistency of the first reading regime and an amendment to the 22nd Article of Aurelia Juri. He didn't accept the other amendments. The meeting was attended by representatives of both the fire liaison and the professional firefighters' union. Regrettably, the representatives of the Association of Professional Firefighters were not present at the meeting because they had not notified themselves in preparation for the meeting or forwarded any written opinion. They are now probably also asking some of you, or all Members and Members, to have certain comments and suggestions. Of course, they cannot be taken into account at this stage. However, given that it was in some way a general satisfaction that the law expressed on the Committee was that the law was a serious step forward in dealing with these issues. However, as likely in this law as in other laws in the future, the Minister of Defence has already discussed this in part - to address some other issues. By then, I expect their comments to be heard and taken into account in the law. As it is said, the Committee has adopted an amendment by Mr Aurelia and a series of amendments, which are listed in the report and which improve the text or legal consistency of this area. Of course, the Committee proposes that you adopt the law, as the Committee has practically unanimously supported it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is the presentation of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, MEP Josip Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. In the past decade, security against natural and other disasters has been regulated and enforced as an important subsystem of national security. Organizations, technical and other solutions that ensured the functioning of the system and individual components were designed and established. During this period, firefighting was established as a basic and most numerous general rescue service, both voluntary and professional. The legislation in force provided, at local level, with voluntary and professional firefighting units, the necessary readiness to carry out general rescue tasks throughout the country, which were normally free of charge. So far, the legislation governing the operation of voluntary firefighting companies has proved inadequate or insufficient to function in the whole area. In the past period, there has been a separation between voluntary professional firefighting, which has not contributed to better, more efficient work and the execution of basic firefighting tasks, namely protection and rescue. Many of the outstanding issues were left to the law in force. It was therefore necessary to accede to the amendments and additions to the Firearms Act and not only to the Social Act. Thus, the basic purpose of the proposed law, which is the subject of today's treatment, is to allow for the further development of firefighting and to increase coherence, rationality and, above all, efficiency in the implementation of the operational task of firefighting. The proposed changes define firefighting as a humanitarian activity, as voluntary firefighting companies, as humanitarian organisations carrying out the operational tasks of firefighting voluntarily. Professional firefighters who also perform rescue activities. However, it is not possible to carry out these activities as acquisitions of activities. The powers of the local communities as well as the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia in the performance of the protection and resolution tasks are precisely defined. Uniforms, spells, markings as well as fire extinguishers' cards are assigned. Organisation and integration are also precisely defined, education is needed for firefighters. The law also regulates the status of professional firefighters to the greatest extent possible. In view of the fact that all interested parties, such as firefighters, firefighters, professional firefighters and others, were involved in the creation of the law itself, and that the final text takes into account the majority of the comments as far as possible, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the law on amendments and additions to the Firearms Act. However, we expect that, if this does not come out of the law itself, the role of rescue institutions, including others who are and who are still engaged in field protection and resolution in our country or local communities, will be preserved.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you, Ambassador Bajc. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u8	Your Honors are here! The Firearms Act was adopted among the first sectoral laws in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. According to our assessment, this matter needs to be changed, both because of time and because of the content dimension. Therefore, for this purpose and for these reasons, we support the amendment, especially given that firefighting is the most numerous general rescue service within individual or local communities. Unfortunately, however, the objectives, principles and main solutions, as assessed by the Slovenian National Party Group, are too general and do not follow the solutions in those cases that are actually reflected in the firefighting companies. Allow me, for the first time, to touch on the financial consequences where, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, the applicant derives from a lack of conduct or perhaps even worse, he tries to mislead both the primary customers of this law and the National Assembly. According to our assessment, the financial consequences should not be seen solely as a unilateral financial flow and are therefore misleading in relation to Article 11, which represents the transfer of private property to the local community. According to our assessment, in the area of financial implications, it should be made clear what Article 11 also means for the other party, i.e. for individual firefighting companies. As far as the organisation is concerned, it should be pointed out that it is essentially divided into voluntary and professional fire brigades and that there is also another deficiency coming from the department. At the same time, it should be stressed that the very assumption on which the whole law was built is, in our opinion, flawed mainly because it does not take account of the different developments of voluntary societies across the country. In the communication that we had in the Slovenian National Party Group with individual societies, everyone in turn confirmed this different national development of individual societies, geographically speaking. According to the latest data of UMAR, taking into account the gross social product per capita, there is even a difference of one compared to 2.1. According to our assessment, in order to ensure successful firefighting throughout the country, this should be an integral element for the origin of this law, which, unfortunately, Minister Erjavec has not taken into account. We miss the promotion of voluntary firefighting in the law below, which, on the one hand, is likely to stem from the element that I have previously identified as a failure under the law and, on the other hand, this encouragement is prevented by the implementation of the new Article 37, which speaks of the link with the Fire School. At the same time, it should be pointed out that, at least in the context of the contact of the national party's national group, we estimate that in our country, given the comparability with Europe, according to the number of accidents and according to the area of the Republic of Slovenia, at least two internal organisational units should be needed. We have space for another, as well as the territorial division of Slovenia. That would be at Maribor in Pekra. According to our assessment, appropriate infrastructure is appropriate. It's a good history, a good tradition. What is necessary is only a little bit of the goodwill of the existing government. According to our assessment, such an approach, i.e. to two internal organisational units, would reduce the enormous costs incurred by both voluntary societies and other societies resulting from the unnecessary now - according to our assessment - excessive logistics, that is, travel. And let me go back to the above-mentioned - according to our assessment - disputed article 11 in the draft law, which envisages the nationalisation of private property. According to our assessment, it is both legally and morally controversial that those local communities or municipalities, whatever you prefer, which did not participate in the financing of our land, equipment, construction, fire trucks, are entitled under the new law to transfer or to acquire this property in some form. Well, according to our assessment, the basic error of the law and the ministry is mainly that they are excluded from the active drafting of the proposal of the Fire Company Act as the largest interested community to be included in the call. In this context, I state the greatest disadvantage of this law, an additional health insurance for firefighters. Within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, the decision to adopt or not to adopt will depend on amendments. Thank you. We continue the debate. Following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Ambassador Ivan Yelen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister. The adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Firearms Act is the beginning of amending and supplementing laws governing protection against natural and other disasters. This is an extremely important national security subsystem, which needs to be given more attention. We are also reminded of this by various disasters, including this year's July and August storms and floods, in which it has been confirmed that the subsystem has become effective and that protection, rescue and assistance and operators in this area still need to be improved in terms of organisational technical and material capacity to operate. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Firearms Act is, of course, supported by our parliamentary group. With additions on the parental committee, we have further improved it. It appears that it was prepared after long-term coordination involving all those directly or indirectly responsible for the field of firefighting. This applies to both voluntary and professional firefighters of the municipality, the fire syndicate and also the competent ministry. The discussions we had in the Savinij-Shale region confirmed that most of the problems facing Slovenian firefighting have been resolved by law in recent years. The law takes into account both the importance of voluntary firefighting and professionalism. Both things are connected. This is very important because outside of large city cores, voluntary firefighting is the most important rescue service that is useful in all accidents. In doing so, I do not mention the role and importance of other social activities developed by the fire organisation in cultural, preventive, sports and other fields. Firefighters have developed a wide range of activities in the integration of young people into firefighters, which is of particular importance. I am therefore convinced that the amendments to the law relating to this area or city and the role of the whole fire organisation are good and that they need to be supported will enable the development of an organisation that has a 135-year tradition in Slovenia also in the context of a modern market economy. They are particularly important after our assessment of the solution that strengthens the role of the fire unions, which has been completely ignored in the existing law. In particular, we support the uniform regulation of the situation of professional firefighters. Especially those who are employed in public institutions. This area has so far been very volatile and, by supplementing the law, these establishments are involved in the public sector and the same situation of this group of firefighters will be ensured throughout the country. I am convinced that it is the right direction of the Ministry to try to finance the fire-fighting activities of the municipalities in the context of the reform of the local self-government financing system under preparation. Providing the necessary conditions for the operation of firefighters and other rescue services and for the protection and rescue tasks is key to the safety of the population in all municipalities. Therefore, we need to ensure adequate stability in funding so that this area does not depend on material possibilities, as well as on the relationship between the political and other interests of each municipality. These efforts are necessary as labour legislation is in line with EU solutions. It is not possible to amend and implement additional reliefs for volunteers, nor is it possible to impose different solutions in the Firearms Act, which would not be in line with the Labour Relations Act. A well-respected assembly, the adoption of a bill amending and supplementing the Fire Act is necessary. The proposed marriage solutions are good and we support them in the DeSUS Group. We are committed to their early entry into force.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Member Robert Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! You may have witnessed the intervention of firefighters, either in the event of traffic accidents, fires, floods or other elementary accidents, and at that time you wished that firefighters could never be helped. However, when a matter is necessary when human lives and property are at risk, rapid and effective intervention of firefighters is of paramount importance. Therefore, the State must do its utmost to recognise the appropriate status of firefighters and to enable them to function as effectively as possible and to function as possible. Especially since a large number of fire companies are organized on a voluntary basis, their professional and infrastructure skills are therefore dependent on people’s lives. If I look at history in the first place, let me remind you, my fellow Members, that the Firearms Act has been passed among the first regional laws of our own country, which regulate individual areas of protection against natural and other disasters. Experience so far has shown that the registration and operation of firefighting companies and their associations are not appropriate under the social law alone, since in this way it is not possible to ensure, in particular, the appropriate role of firefighting associations. The merger of firefighting companies in the fire brigades is voluntary, which prevents the impact of fire liaisons on coordinated equipment, training, preparedness for the operation and operation of firefighting units in the territory of a municipality or more. This also applies to the operation of the Firehouse Association of Slovenia. Therefore, the basic objective of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Firearms Act that we are considering today is to allow for the further development of firefighting and to increase coherence and rationality and the effectiveness of the implementation of the operational tasks of firefighting as an integral part of the protection against natural and other disasters. The adoption of this law will allow firefighters to have legal powers and to influence the planned and coordinated development and equipment and training of voluntary firefighting units. In accordance with the basic objective and those principles for the organisation and operation of firefighting as an important part of the system of protection against natural and other disasters, this bill sets out the most important solutions for the changes and additions to the Firearms Act. I mentioned some of them in the debate earlier. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to draw attention to some other facts that seem very important to me and that are adequately addressed by the proposed law, which is why we will also support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. A voluntary firefighting unit which organises a voluntary firefighting company shall have a prescribed number of firefighters determined by the criteria for the organisation and equipment of firefighting units. Thus, the minimum number of firefighters required by the fire brigade will no longer be established by law, allowing for a more appropriate adaptation of the organisation of firefighting to actual needs and opportunities in the municipalities. Companies, institutions and other organisations where there is an increased risk of fire and explosion must also organise their own fire service. State plans for the protection and rescue of certain types of accidents also provide for the activation of firefighting units. I am very pleased that the law will also contribute to the uniform regulation of the status of professional firefighters throughout the country. In particular, the status of firefighters in professional fire brigades has been regulated differently so far. On the basis of the activities of the Slovenian Administration for the Protection and Rescue and Trade Union of Firefighters, some important issues, such as orientation jobs and titles, work allowances under less favourable working conditions, hazard allowance and special burdens, have already been coordinated on the basis of the Law on Public Servants and the Law on the Public Sector System. However, a catalogue of jobs is being prepared and so forth. The provisions of the law governing labour issues related to the nature, organisation and needs of the fire service will significantly accelerate the planned and coordinated management of these issues. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in view of all of the above, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports the adoption of the law on the amendments and additions to the Firearms Act and proposes to be adopted by the National Assembly, thereby allowing for the regulation of the issue of fire-fighting activities in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you. Here comes the presentation of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Comrade Aurelio Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u13	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It has been 12 years since the adoption of the applicable Firearms Act. And even in our party, the Social Democrats believe that this is a long enough period to check its effects, identify shortcomings and prepare improvements. So today's proposal is on our hands. The government has prepared, accepted and launched some hot blood in the fire lines, both professional and voluntary, which at the start were not fully seen in the proposed solutions. But during the discussion passions were extinguished, at least as far as we perceived and understood in our party. The Firefighters Association of Slovenia, the Trade Firefighters Union, firefighters and individual firefighters have submitted a number of comments and proposals for amendments to address the concerns and fears that prevent them from being members of the Firefighter Professional and Voluntary Units, while the conditions of work, their safety and the safety of the beneficiaries of their services are fully satisfied. We have taken these initiatives into account in the Social Democrats' Group of Members and have transformed them into the amendments that we wanted and want to introduce a fire cover standard that will ensure effective and quality control over the implementation of the public fire service. To ensure that the State assumes full funding for those fire-fighting activities which are under State jurisdiction or carried out on infrastructure owned and controlled by the State, and to carry out fire-fighting units which are authorised to carry out the municipal fire-fighting service. In order to provide by the State the means of insurance and preventive checks on operational firefighters to reduce the proposed fines for the employer who makes it impossible or makes it difficult for his employed operational firefighter to leave or leave work due to intervention, without, of course, making it difficult for the firefighter himself to work. And last but not least, the status of the operative firefighter is fully regulated. Regrettably, both the drafters of the law and the majority of the committee responsible assessed that the amendments were unnecessary and rejected, with the exception of one. We regret this in the Socialist Group of Members, but despite this law we do not deny support, it certainly brings significant improvements that would be even better. If you attach our amendments, which you have on your hands today, In any case, discussions between the government and the fire department and the operatives must continue to seek and find satisfactory answers to all outstanding questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you. The presentation of the New Slovenia Group is still under way. Ambassador Drago Koren, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u15	Dear President! Mr Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! Nice greetings for me, too. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - the Christian People's Party, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Firearms Act. Firefighting has a very rich tradition in Slovenia. In recent years, it has grown into a general lifesaving service. How important this overall rescue service has proved to be, I can say, many times in all the years so far. And also in this year's July and August storms and floods, when firefighting really turned out to be a good and effective rescue service. In the Group of Members, we believe that the damage would be significantly greater if there were no rapid and effective intervention of firefighters. The basic objective of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Firearms Act is to enable the further development of firefighting and to enhance the coherence, rationality and effectiveness of the implementation of operational tasks of firefighting as an integral part of the protection against natural and other disasters. In Slovenia we have about 600 professional firefighters, 20,000 volunteer firefighters who perform the tasks of general rescue service. In recent years, there has been a separation between professional and voluntary firefighting, which in our view has not been good. The amendment of the Fires Act seeks to bring together to the greatest extent the voluntary and professional part of the fire, to improve solutions to the public fire service in municipalities, to also put the operation of fire liaisons into the entire organisation of firefighting and to address certain specific issues of professional fire service. The new law gives a formal role to municipal firefighters since, in their field, they are responsible for the equal and appropriate skills and equipment in the entire municipality by giving an opinion on the annual training and equipment programmes of voluntary firefighting companies. The proposed law ensures that operational fire-fighting tasks cannot be carried out as a profitable activity. In practice, individual attempts are already being made to market certain operational firefighting tasks in the context of asset protection. The execution of extinguishing, resolution and other tasks shall be free of charge for the affected and threatened in principle, except in cases where the intervention of fire extinguishers is necessary because of the conceivable or gross negligence of the accidents. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the law states that firefighting is a humanitarian activity. This is particularly reflected in voluntary firefighting companies, where their members sacrifice a lot of free time to work in firefighting societies. Let me conclude this presentation by considering the special role of voluntary fire companies, which is not enshrined in the law. These societies are also the center of the cultural, sports and social life of Slovenia. For a number of places, this role of fire companies is more important than the statutory tasks. So Members and Members of New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of an amendment review of 26.9 this year. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 4. That is why I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Ambassador Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you for your word. Article 4 or Article 5 of this Act, the amended proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Firearms Act itself, refers to concepts and their meaning. I note that, during the period in which the law arose, neither the Firefighters Association of Slovenia nor the proposer invested enough energy to define the status of an operational, voluntary firefighter. The fourth point is that the operational firefighter is a person who performs operational tasks on a professional or voluntary basis. Both must, however, meet very difficult conditions, prescribed psychophysical, health requirements and professional qualifications to carry out all these difficult tasks. And tasks are becoming more and more difficult. In fact, this amendment does not oblige anyone or the insurance undertaking itself to reduce the insurance premium or the applicant to design and to immediately write off certain taxes or similar. It provides guidance on what direction we should think about if we are to regulate the status of an operational volunteer firefighter. And it is right that this unresolved problem in the Firearms Act that we are dealing with today is also noted, and with at least some symbolism it is written in an article that speaks of concepts and their meaning. The work that will follow the regulation of the status of a voluntary firefighter must also follow during this period following the adoption of this law. Because talking about having a 135-year tradition of voluntary firefighting in Slovenia is nice to hear. At the same time, however, it is binding. Unfortunately, however, the legislation does not give rise to sufficient awareness that this status will also begin to be specifically regulated. With the adoption of this amendment, the National Assembly may at least symbolically write down this law in order to be aware of this problem and to expect further, both in the field of the adoption of insurance legislation, in the field of economic companies, tax legislation, regional legislation and not only in the field of legislation governing the financing of municipalities, so that it begins to resolve and seek solutions in all these areas in order to determine as closely as possible the status of the operational firefighter or the relationship between the operational firefighter and the employer where such a volunteer is employed. I think that by adopting this amendment, the National Assembly can warn both the proposer and the government, as well as the fire liaison in Slovenia, if we are talking about a umbrella organisation, that this problem is not yet adequately resolved and that we are really looking forward to more concrete solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next one, I would like to ask all Members and Members to turn off their mobile phones or at least their sound. On our service phones it is possible to do so by pressing button C, so please follow these instructions, as well as follow the board before entering the plenary room of the National Assembly and avoid activating phones. For the discussion on Article 4, colleague Pike has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you for your word. If we look at this amendment in detail, we find that it's not really bad. I believe that the proposaler has proposed the amendment to Article 4 in good faith. However, when I say look again, we see that it saves only one segment between the employer and the operative firefighter. However, the European practice in this area is to introduce insurance or to improve these fire insurance systems in general. The law is also coordinated between the union on the one hand and the relationship on the other. So I don't see that this amendment should be supported. For a simple reason, because the lawmaker himself through the entire law is somehow systematically encouraging and encouraging the employment of firefighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you. Mr Jerič is also a member of Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Commander of the Republic Civil Protection Headquarters, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will talk about the two amendments tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. I think both amendments point to certain problems to be addressed in the status of an operational volunteer firefighter, both the relationship between the employer and the firefighter and other things. It is true that these warnings are in place. However, these solutions are not part of the Fire Act. However, it is right to draw attention to these matters and, of course, to impose on the government when other sectoral legislation is being prepared to regulate these statuses. I regret that we have not been able to bring together both sectoral laws, both amendments and additions to the Firearms Act, as well as amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act, of course. If I recall correctly, in 1993, 1994, we considered the two as twins in Parliament and also accepted them. Important changes also await us in the area of systemic law, this is in the field of the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. I would also like two more, three other things to warn you, which also stem from warnings from these two amendments. This is the area of financing fire protection or firefighting. We see from the data that the local communities are spending too little money on fire protection in my opinion. From the data known for 2004, this is from the P1 reports sent monthly by municipalities to the Ministry of Finance, it is clear that it allocates as many as 154 municipalities, when we look at a citizen, less funds than some average value. This average value is approximately 2 158 tolars per capita. One hundred and fifty-four municipalities mention less resources for the operation of a fire organisation within the local community. I believe that these issues, which are raised, both in the amendments and of course in the area of financing, will need to be highlighted by the government and properly regulated by the provision of system-wide legislation on local community funding through appropriate spending and, of course, to ensure the purposeful use of resources as well. One thing is, we need trained firefighters. That's what we need the money for. The second is that we also need equipped firefighters. Therefore, there is a need for considerable investment within individual fire brigades or local communities. However, I would like to draw attention to another problem arising from the changes and additions to this law. This is a problem with the organisation of fire brigades in Slovenia. See, if we knew or the Minister prescribed criteria and criteria for the establishment of fire brigades within institutions, companies and of course elsewhere, then I think we should go, not just to the state, but to those working in the field of expertise, fire liaison, local communities, including the organisation of firefighting in municipalities, or local communities. Why am I saying this? We have the power to organise firefighting differently across local communities. My assessment is that the basis must be fire threats within the local community. There must be an operational plan and, of course, a specific organisation of firefighting units on the basis of this. Because if we don't realize it, then in certain environments, there are two fire companies within a village and, of course, there is pressure on public funds. This is the pressure on public funds, both local and national. I think it will be necessary to bite once into this sour apple and to determine the organisation of firefighting units across Slovenia on the basis of fire threats, on the basis of criteria and criteria, and then also to fund it and to provide a well-equipped and trained backbone of the protection and rescue system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you. To the word I invite the Member of the Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that. In his opening remarks, the Minister explained the Ministry's position on these proposed amendments by the Social Democrats. And I'd like to add something myself. In Article 5, paragraph 4, defines the term ‘operational firefighter’, namely that it is a person who, on a professional or voluntary basis, performs the operational tasks of firefighting, meets the prescribed psychophysical and health requirements and is professionally qualified to perform those tasks. Thus, the law of an operative firefighter does not define in terms of his employment. This amendment certainly does not fall within the very context of this law. This law, however, can be said to be a good foundation to be built up by the novels of the law mentioned earlier by the Minister, namely the law on the financing of municipalities, insurance systems, tax systems. There is no way we can bring this into this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you. Member Janc has been informed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Honourable Prime Minister, sir, colleagues, colleagues! These two amendments, if you can join the SD Group together, so the matter drinks water, it sounds good, it feels good, I'd say. I'd support him in some way, too. But, as my colleague said before me, unfortunately this does not belong in this story, this is part of some tax story, a tax thing where such jobs should be specifically defined. For in the firehouse I am very glad that there is such unity in this hall. We all support each other, and I like that very much. That at least this point that doesn't separate us, that we're all like one, one shot down orchestra. So in the Slovenian space, the firefighter is of great importance, in every municipality, in every local community and country, also an extremely important thing, which at any time as a mayor and a Member I feel in my space, whether it is a firefight, a sports competition, a social event or a drought or a storm or an earthquake. This first one, in the front row, is always firefighters. I come from Posavje, I come from Sevnica, where we had a disaster on August 21st, and if we didn't have these firefighters, the disaster would be even more significant, significantly worse. Because that's when it turned out how we need these firefighters, how we need them, because they are the foundation of protection and rescue in Slovenia and in every municipality. And Europe doesn't have that, and America doesn't, gentlemen. What was down there? Do you remember the story about those things? And that's why we have to be proud of this thing. I think it is right that this step is the country and this government has taken. Despite many comments a year ago, unfortunately we were not heard by firefighters. They didn't. They did this time. And I think that, in my opinion and in cooperation with the fire liaisons and the firefighters themselves, a big step has been taken. A hundred percent of the pleasure is still not there. I just have to predict. He probably won't be here yet. And that step, as colleague Yuri said earlier, will have to continue talks, talks in this sense that we may take another step in this sense to do what they are doing to those firefighters in Slovenia. And finally, this volunteering is slowly disappearing. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. The 135-year tradition and the number of firefighters, as in Slovenia, is also the basis of these societies, every local community. It is true, however, that some municipalities are still "scrambled" and do not give an adequate share for their local community. Some more. And those who have more certainly also have better-trained firefighting, better equipment and more successful. In Sevnica, this is at an appropriate level, and we will continue to spend more money on this area, including due to recent extremely positive experiences. That this will be appropriate in the case of such and other, I hope that not permanent disasters such as droughts such as floods, such as other accidents in our space, have been enough so far in Sevenice and Posavi. So I am very pleased with this debate. I will be very happy when we support this law, that the firefighters finally get that city, which they have been knocking on the Slovenian government for years, and they have not been heard. They will now finally be heard and heard by Slovenian municipalities and will also show greater respect for Slovenian firefighters in local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? My friend Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As I said in the introduction, when I represented the position of the Slovenian People's Party, I estimate that the law is good. The two amendments proposed by colleagues of the Social Democrats are, as the predecessors have said, welcome and draw attention to the problem that arises in the operation of all forms of volunteering, when the employer eventually impedes participation in such volunteering. For example, similar problems occur in blood donors. A variety of blooddressers have to take leave because their work organisation is not regulated to pay their absence from work. I think my colleague Jerič mentioned that the matter would have to be settled. And I hope that, even when we talk about this law and when we are united, we will find a solution that when the siren is triggered as a signal to help, the one who is an operative firefighter can leave his job without fear of getting paid for that day or even worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you. Member Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u29	This isn't about whether the amendment would be liked or not. It is necessary to consider whether this amendment can thus be incorporated into this Article. Although I must say, I'm pleased to be reminded of that. In particular, because the Ministry and Government have resorted radically and gravely to Article 31, which speaks of punishment. Then we fixed it on the board. Serious concern was expressed among volunteer firefighters. There have been a number of meetings on the subject that they will not actually be able to get a job or that everyone will avoid hiring volunteer firefighters if they are absent, or they will be punished if, say, they will not be able to respond exactly as volunteer firefighters would like to. With regard to this amendment, which goes the other way, i.e. to get these employers even some relief, I think we will really need to look at it wider. In all matters, when it comes to humanitarian affairs, we actually have the same topic. How do those who devote their time to giving more attention to this matter in order to be stimulated, or to be known for their burdens, especially when talking about taxes? I can't put him in this article, this amendment. In particular, because I don't know what, how to lower it, to what extent, to what extent insurance premiums are. I don't even know what tax reliefs are meant to do this either on profit or on income or on where. That's why I have a problem. That's not what this is about. Of course, I advocate that all those engaged in humanitarian and humanitarian activities should have some advantages, but of course this is not the case in the Firearms Act. It is important, however, that we talk about the fact that the ministry will really start to do this and come up with a solution. It hasn't been since yesterday. This discussion is as long as this National Assembly deals with these issues. Specific proposals also in the law on the elimination of the natural consequences of natural disasters, etc. We didn't make it anywhere else. I will talk about the second amendment later, because it seems to me that, despite the fact that we have reduced the penalties, the thing is too rude and too binding, it imposes too much on employers and those who are naturally directly involved. As I said, I would like to support this amendment if the proponents would explain to me how they picture these solutions both in insurance and other regulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you. Member Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you. I also think that the proposed amendments are well-intentioned, but I think that the explanation given by Mr Minister seems to me to hold back. I think that here, as far as operational firefighters who are employed in companies and the problems that arise at least in our environment, as far as I know, there is no problem here for once, is that firefighting companies are very well involved with the economy in our environment. I must say that if fire companies depended solely on the money of the municipalities and the state, they would be much worse equipped than they are. Our companies spend quite a lot of money mainly on equipping firefighting companies. But I know that they take good care of skills and education. I hope that such a relationship between companies and fire companies will remain and that employees will not have any difficulty in going to intervention. However, it is also necessary to think about other things, so these voluntary operational firefighters we have quite a lot and perhaps some rationalisation could be done with regard to the call for intervention itself. You could probably call firefighters who are free. This in today's technology system is not an invitation not to call on the whole unit, but to call on the necessary units and those who are free. Even so, certain things could probably be improved here in the sense that employers would not suffer harm due to the absence of firefighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? My friend Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. Once again, I would like to stress the purpose of this amendment. Of course, it would be much easier to write an amendment if more articles were open. Unfortunately, very few articles have been amended. If I only try to answer my colleague Pajk that this amendment is not European-oriented. That's where you're talking about how insurance is supposed to solve the problem of firefighting. And in the content of this amendment, it's also written. It is about reducing insurance premiums for employers, so we also follow this European policy, which goes to insurance companies. My colleague Jericz, he is not a member of the Fire Service Act. Surely the status of an operative, a voluntary firefighter in this law, as well as the relationship between the employer and a voluntary firefighter is already an integral part of this law. I'm sorry about the criminal provisions only. Thus, even because of this in criminal provisions, it makes sense to settle it in a chapter that speaks of concepts. Regarding a fellow Croat who also says that this amendment does not fall within the context of the law. I'm just saying it again. It is already in the context of the law because this law regulates the relationship between an employer and a voluntary firefighter-operator, but I stress, only on criminal provisions, but not on incentive provisions, that this volunteer is given a job, that there is some greater security in an economic society and, lastly, also in an environment where such a volunteer works, and that is certainly what this law speaks about. And it is also true that colleague Anderlič found that otherwise we are talking about insurance and tax reliefs, but we are not talking about how this should be regulated. In the explanation we have written down for this amendment, we have written that the term and its meaning gives guidance for regulating the incentives of employers to employ an operational volunteer firefighter. So there is no reason for this amendment to specify in the Fires Act how insurance premiums should be regulated, tax relief. We leave this to sectoral legislation, both in the field of insurance, companies, tax legislation. However, I would like to point out what I have already pointed out in the introduction that it will be insufficient if we address this issue only in order to resolve the funding of the municipalities. There we will certainly not be able to address this problem because we are likely to find similar conclusions as in this law that the municipality is not competent to interfere with tax legislation in the field of state, companies and the like. In short, this amendment only travels to this and directs the bill's proposer to take this into account in the future when preparing those laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you. Member Pike has entered the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. I will stress once again that I believe in the well-intentionedness of this proposed amendment, but I think it is too narrowly focused. I believe he's well-intentioned and it's necessary to settle this in law, but in the same law, I don't think he judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u36	Thank you. In view of the fact that I do not see any more applicants, allow me to take advantage of the possibility of debate itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u37	I predict that, within the Slovenian National Party Group, we will only support the amendment because whenever a natural disaster occurs in our country or any other, unfortunately, activity that contains the activity of firefighters, we always say that we must first create conditions for quality and better firefighter activities. We estimate that one of these options is now or in the context of the vote. Therefore, I believe that the well-intentioned amendment or positive direction cannot pose a threat and I think it would be good for the State Assembly to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u38	The National Assembly, however, continues its debate on the 31st Article, namely the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you. This is this article you've been talking about before. The law regulates the relationship between the employer and the voluntary operative firefighter, but unfortunately only in the field of sanctions or the payment of certain penalties if the implementation of the Firearms Act is not made possible in the manner provided for in all other articles or certain articles of this Act. This makes the status of an operative volunteer firefighter really worse. First, every employer will seriously consider whether he will hire a volunteer firefighter or not, rather not because he will therefore have fewer problems with his daily work or in achieving his own results. Therefore, we propose that these provisions, which are reasonable, and in our opinion, when the employer also has an enabling part in place, if he employs an operative firefighter and that sanctions should only be applied when we also regulate the incentives for employers to hire operational firefighters volunteers. I would point out just one more problem, which is very important in my opinion. This is a coherent regional development. Many more volunteer firefighters - operatives are important in remote locations and in those companies it is already so difficult to ensure competitive conditions, and one of the opportunities could certainly be to combine the interest of protection against accidents, protection against all other issues and humanitarian tasks carried out by firefighters and, ultimately, to stimulate companies, especially in those remote locations, because there is virtually no other possibility of facilitating their work and encouraging them to stay in areas that are of course more difficult to access, have the possibility of employment, poorer staffing and so on. In our view, this amendment is extremely important and from all the spectrum I have presented, so I expect it to be supported, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you. Member of the Croatian Parliament has entered the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. I cannot support this amendment either, for one simple reason, because even in the current law, the law in force has been penalised by a violation or the employer's behaviour to the detriment of a firefighter. And you're saying it's possible that this is going to happen now. I don't know a lot of cases or if there's any at all since this law has been in force, where these sanctions have also been defined, that this has happened, that someone hasn't hired a firefighter because he's a firefighter. And on the parental committee, we discussed this topic. The Fire Association of Slovenia came with the same fear that this could happen, but for this reason, because the fines were really raised, it was greatly increased. We have brought them down to a minimum level on the committee, which is still acceptable. If we bring this into the marriage, we'll come up with a situation where there's really going to be damage to a volunteer fireman. That's why I think it's hard with the law to tie fines to some future regulation. I object to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you. Member Pike has been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. I would point out that the law, and thus this article 31, is co-ordinated between the unions and between the fire union, so that it does not go further. The fact is that the legislation has also known punishment in cases where a volunteer firefighter would have been injured. The fact is, too many rights and it can come back like a boomerang. I see in this context the point of this proposed amendment that if there are too many rights, it will not ultimately harm those who have been given these rights. And there's another reason why I don't think we can support this amendment. It relies on legislation that has not yet been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Comrade Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u45	I'd really like to ask the government a question. We have apparently quickly satisfied the Committee with the reduction of the penalties imposed on those which are, however, in accordance with the rest of the criminal legislation. The basic proposal was even higher and, of course, it has nothing to do with the union and with the union, because it is voluntary firefighters and they have nothing to do with it. But it's about employers. And in the debate phase, I was even following, I think, on television, when the minister met with Savino-Shales firefighters, where they also pointed out that because of such a drastic increase in penalties, for example, there were at least 200,000, now there are at least 300 and 3 million, and the responsible person, previously 20,000, is now significantly larger. That's why I'm interested in why this trend is so high, because the employer will be able to ask if you're a volunteer firefighter, how much duty you have, and he'll say, I have thousands of applicants at my disposal, why would I take you with whom I can have problems, and I'll be so severely punished. How many of these cases have been and whether this provision of the old law has proved to be poor due to the low penalties or why this tendency has already been proposed in the basic proposal in this direction. Of course I'll say something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Comrade Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u47	Yes, if I may, I will say very briefly. I'll support this amendment. I will support him for two reasons. It is not a problem when an operative firefighter, a volunteer is invited in writing for training or exercise. Then the employer, I will say, can get a refund and workflow of the arrangements as within a regulated company a work process needs to be conducted. There's a problem when we activate a fireman, an operative, a volunteer in a rescue operation. This can happen to us that individual companies will have major problems in providing their work process. In such a hard-line dictatorship, as it is written here, such a hard-line dictatorship may result in the use of these penalties more than once. I think it would be bad for both the security and rescue system, for the fire department and, of course, for the company itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th agenda, or [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Comrade Anderlich, please! [[...]] Look, the government of the Republic of Slovenia has been notified, it has 10 minutes, but if it wants to talk, if it wants to make use of it, allow your colleague Anderlič, the meeting is being held by me, not you, he will be able to raise his hand like everyone else in this house and sign up for the debate. I'll only take that into account if you didn't know that. You didn't know that? You knew. Then I won't give you my word. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.10 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. The National Assembly is moving on to 14. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF AN AMENDMENT LEGISLATION LEGISLATION, PRIVATE PROCEDURE. Reminder: The total time of discussion is 50 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Since I saw a competent minister in the Chamber earlier, I ask the National Assembly whether he wants to hear the Minister's opening statement or not? The Minister is with us, so we will give the floor to Dr Gregor Virant, Minister of Public Administration, to present a proposal for a law amending the law on Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This law, which is very short, removes some of the privileges enjoyed today by Members and Ministers and some other officials, which is that in the absence of a hospital, we receive 100% compensation, while employees in both the public and private sectors receive 80% or 90% compensation, depending on what collective agreements provide for individual activities. Legally, it is at least 80% and some collective agreements provide for 90%. In preparing this change, we have drawn from the conclusion that our health, that is to say, the health of the officials, is worth nothing more than the health of other citizens. This is a government proposal, but at the same time as the government has begun to prepare this proposal, a similar initiative has also come from the members or members of the coalition. The law now provides 80% of the compensation, i.e. it equates Members, Ministers and other officials bound by this law with those employed in the economy. This principle will be consistently enforced by the Government in other privileged groups. The Law on Public Servants is already under consideration in the National Assembly and abolishes this privilege for the police and for the administration of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, and then there remains only the law on judicial service, where this must be done as well. The second minor amendment relates to the exercise of a gainful activity in addition to the exercise of a parliamentary function. So far, the law has allowed a third of the working relationship or working relationship for a third of the working time, and now the law allows a working relationship to one fifth in accordance with the Labour Relations Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thanks for the introduction. The proposal for a law was treated by a mandate-holder commission as a parent working body. I ask the President of the Commission, Franz Sušnik, to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Mr President! At its 11th meeting, on 15 September 2005, the Commission held a hearing on a proposal for a law amending the Law on Members submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The Commission also considered the opinion of the legislative and legal service, the amendment to Article 2 of the bill tabled by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats and the proposed amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the amendment of the Commission, which is in line with the opinion of the legislative and legal service to Article 2 of the draft law. Let me also say that the College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 32nd meeting on 15 July 2005 that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also participated in the meeting, in addition to representatives of the Government as the proposer. In its opinion, it concluded and noted that, on a proposal from the law, there were no comments on the proposed amendment in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. It noted, however, that in Article 2 of the draft law, the proposed amendment to Article 25 of the Law on Members does not ensure that Members and other persons to whom the provisions of this law apply with the position of employees in the private sector in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, which encouraged the proposer to propose to the Commission that it adopt the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment was further supplemented by the representative of the proposed amendment and at the same time justified the amendment to Article 2 of the Law, which is necessary to comply with the comments of the legislative and legal service. The amendment of the Social Democrats' Group was also discussed, which was further substantiated by the representative of this Group. In particular, I would like to say, as President of the Electoral Commission, that in the debate, all the participants supported the proposed law, with particular emphasis on the absence of any excuses and reasons for the continued application of this privilege to Members. On the basis of the above, the Commission supported the law itself, supported the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for an amendment to the harmonisation of Article 2, which was based on the opinion of the legislative and legal service and the law itself as a whole. An integral part of the report, which you have also received in writing, is a complementary proposal for a law, and we felt that the intention and announcement of the Government should also be realized as soon as possible, that this privilege should also be granted to judges, civil servants and other servants currently enjoying this privilege. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first position will be presented by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u53	Your Honors are here! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Members and its contents can be divided into two sets or two content, which on the one hand are separate and, on the other hand, both come from the credits of Members, namely, in the first part, the percentage of the remuneration of wages 80 or 100 or 100 or 80 or 80, we fully agree with the applicant in the National Party, so that it is equivalent to equalising health among citizens who perform other works and citizens who act as Members. However, we would like to talk a little bit more about the second part of the bill, namely the second accompanying content of the bill, namely the part of the novel that speaks about the complementary activity or the complementary work of individual Members. According to our assessment, the decision on this content must be based on the Member State's function and its own ratings. According to our assessment, this area of Members should not be equated with other employees, not to the detriment of Members, not of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment, the conditions for the exercise of the parliamentary function are clear to all before the exercise of the post. Before any of us decided to run for office and later to take office, he knew about the conditions for his future work. So he consciously decided to act as a Member and probably knew whether his nomination or the campaigning in the elections was serious that the parliamentary function would require the tax of his entire work. According to our assessment, or at least with certainty, I can claim that Members of the Slovenian National Party's Group are carrying out this function and we advocate that this is also the only function that Members can perform. Not only did we replace work in colleges, health institutions, but, according to our assessment, and we have repeatedly proved this by various proposals of the law, we claim and strive that a Member should be exclusively a Member. Any suggestion about doing another job of up to 25, 30%, if possible, we can safely say no. If the Member wishes to carry out his task of quality, he must be only a Member. We therefore, in part, welcome the Government's proposal to limit the additional work of some Members, but we would welcome even more and with much greater joy support only the idea of not doing any other work. I can therefore point out from this city that if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia comes with such a proposal, we will also be happy to support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u54	We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The representative of the DeSUS Group, mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u55	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! Our parliamentary group will support the law, because it is none of us who would claim our health more valuable than the health of other citizens. We in our party have always supported the view that we are against the privileges. Therefore, it is only natural that we support this. The problem is somewhere else that this law will not solve the issue of all citizens privileged in this respect, as is said in public, but only Members at this time. We want any such privileges to be eliminated in other areas as well. Furthermore, I must say that this privilege has been repeatedly observed in the public eye and this may have led to this change. However, no other privilege of Members shall be dealt with. For example, that a Member and many and most Members have to work for more than eight hours without the right to a reward for overtime and, similarly, that the issue of ratings for the parking space is a Member's privilege which, of course, others do not have. That part of a parking space must be paid to perform its function and so on. In this context, I think that it is necessary to consider, I would say, the situation, not least the personal income of a Member who would quickly approach the average salary in the country if it were converted into lost hours, which Members must carry out in their own national assembly and outside it. This applies to all parties and to all Members in this country. That is not enough, it is not enough to say that the burden of Members of Parliament and this function is disproportionately large and that when we look at it that way, it is no longer, I do not know what privilege. It's also not nice to be written about us as the electorate. In fact, we are the electors of these constituents in this country, of this people. And in this regard, we probably have the reward for this work and, of course, for the performance of this function. We do not agree with the various debates that always occur when something has to be withdrawn or abolished from Members. We have disproportionately modest rights as Members if we compare them with the rights not to say privileges in other countries, not just the European Community, but for example the countries of the European East. As it is said, we are in favour of not being given the privileges of Members, but if they exist in the country, it is also necessary to abolish the privileges of all others. In this respect, we support the law and agree that it is adopted in the proposed version. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Ambassador Marjan Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u57	Dear President! Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! The proposed amendments to the Law on Members provide that, in accordance with the model of the Law on Labour Relations for Members, as well as for other employees in the Republic of Slovenia, additional work shall be limited to a maximum of one fifth of the full-time work required or determined for the regular conduct of the activity, in the case of more difficult, professional, scientific, pedagogical or research works. The second purpose of the amendment of the Law on Members is to harmonise the remuneration of Members and other officials mentioned by the Act on Labour Relations, thereby uniting the nationals of the Republic of Slovenia in receiving remuneration because there are no grounds for differentiation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposed amendment to the Law on Members is necessary given that such separation is no longer justified today. Members will allow this change to apply to other civil servants or public sector officials, thereby ensuring equal rights for employers on the basis of all. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are convinced that there are no reasons to justify such differences for Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and some other officials, so we will support the amendments to the Law on Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the LDS Group of Members, Master Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to both ministers. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will not object to the proposal of this law, but we have some minor concerns, which relate mainly to the systemic nature of this area, namely, that under Article 25 of this law, the President of the Government, the President of the Republic, the Ministers, the Secretary-General of the Government, the President and the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Members of the European Parliament, the President, the Vice-President and the Judges of the Constitutional Court, the officials in the legislative and executive branches of power. The latter does not apply to officials in the judicial branch of government, as their salaries and salaries are governed by specific laws such as the Judicial Service Act, the State Prosecutor's Office and the State Attorney's Office. Of course, this also raises the issue of the members of the anti-corruption commission. The legislator in the special law did not define their status more precisely, so it is not possible to determine whether it is followed by the law on Members. For example, their salary is determined by the working body of the National Assembly, the election commission or their professional services. We also point out to the proposer that the remaining officials in other state bodies are subject to the Act on Officials in State Authorities, which provides that their remuneration is determined in the same way as that of public servants, such as the Court of Auditors and the like. On the basis of such certain refunds, we are asked why in the Republic of Slovenia we will establish a threefold system for regulating remuneration for officials, that is to say, a special law for compensation of 100% of wages, such as judges, a special law for compensation of 80% of wages, Members and collective agreements for compensation, as is the case with civil servants. Notwithstanding the fact that the law at systemic level does not regulate the payment of compensation for officials in all three branches of government and still allows for a distinction within the branches of government, we do not oppose it in the LDS. We expect the Government to address the issue of compensation for all other officials in accordance with this law. And that the way we present these privileges to our officials and Members, to the public, will be even more plastic, I would just add that we Members, as far as hospital leave is concerned, are extremely exemplary in this country. I received information, namely, from November 2004 to August 2005 we have worked together for 17,820 working days and during this period we have all benefited only 155 days of hospital leave. This proves that this privilege, which has been obvious to us, rarely or almost never used, will also be minimal, about the same as that of one official, and has continued to increase considerably in some ministries lately, despite different assurances and promises, but of course the effects of a more economic-propaganda nature than of a practical and financial nature. However, that is why we do not oppose this in the LDS, and we will be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Member of the Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! We will support the Law on Members in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We agree with the proposal that the rights of Members and all other officials who are bound by our law on the level of sickness compensation from the employer are equal to that of other citizens. We also agree that the right to special supplementary work from one third is reduced to one fifth. Unfortunately, however, the government in the proposal of this law did not take advantage of the opportunity to settle another very important issue. She did not, for example, propose arrangements for the incompatibility of the function of Member and Mayor. Since it has not done so, Members were unable to make an appropriate proposal; this is our rules of procedure. This is particularly true that the ruling coalition, Democrats, New Slovenia, the People's Party and DeSUS will not have been able or prepared or have not received an appropriate proposal from the government to make it the content of the law. This means that in a year we will go back to the mayoral elections with the possibility of double functions, MPs and mayors. However, I stress this in particular so that we will not then say that we did not know whether we wanted to or had the opportunity to address this issue. We had a chance to edit it. In order to decide, the majority would decide, but the government simply did not give this option in this case. I think that's a bad thing to do, and I think it's worth stressing. And one more question will remain unsettled. This is the right and the possibility for Members to carry out a maximum of one fifth of their working time in addition to their work. And on this issue, we wanted Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats to find solutions which, from the 13-year-old Law on Members, in this regard, would align its content with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act. On our proposal, which sought to align the right to additional work of Members with those of other officials, I think there has been an incredible debate, including full of ambiguities and mismanagement. She wanted to show that we wanted to distinguish Members with our proposal. Because of our proposal, in addition to being a Member, many will no longer be able to work in their profession, which would be harmful. It is as if opening these options, in addition to the mayorship, is really welcome for the responsible exercise of the parliamentary function. When we suggested in such discussions that the working body responsible for this should simply, with the consent of the Government, equalize or abolish such a right for all, there was no response. Therefore, it is only right to say that the members of the coalition and the government, in principle, agreed on the need for the right of complementary work for all officials to be regulated in a uniform manner and said that our proposal was not good and that this could be arranged sometime later. At times, we do not know, so it seems to us that in these two parts the law is not good and that there is a missed opportunity in which the issue of the incompatibility of the county and the work of the delegation and the possibility of complementary work could be discussed more in peace than we did. However, in view of the introductory conclusion that the right to a hospital needs to be levelled and that this means only a reduction in the time spent on supplementary work, we will still support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you. The following are the views of the New Slovenia Group. Mr. Franz Capuder has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister, Members of Parliament and Members. The purpose of amending the Law on Members is twofold. First time. Harmonisation of the amount of the remuneration of Members and other officials mentioned with the Labour Relations Act and thereby the unification of nationals of the Republic of Slovenia when receiving wages. In this way, we believe that our country is also responding to the phenomenon in the European countries, where it is everywhere to see a trend of alignment between the general system and the specific system, or even the inclusion of this last specific system in the general social security system. In New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party, we support the proposed solution. And a second time. The purpose of the amendments to the Law on Members is to harmonise or align the provisions of the Law on Members with the amended Law on Labour Relations, in particular in part 13 of the Article, which no longer provides for complementary work to a third of full-time but only one-fifth of full-time work. Article 13 of the Law on Members, which stipulates that a Member may carry out additional activities, has been tabled by the Group of Social Democrats, which is not intended to permit the performance of professional works. In Novi Slovenije we feel that the high professional work of a member of the National Assembly is no less disturbing for the National Assembly than the additional work of that Member who teaches at the university or studies at the Institute. We are of the opinion that until we are able and ready to resolve the incompatibility of the mayor's function, it is pointless to exclude more difficult professional tasks from the law. That is why we have also rejected the proposed amendment on the mandate-holder committee. In Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party will support amendments to the Law on Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Jakob Presečnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for amendments to the Law on Members. This will support the equalization of rights in the hospital, which we believe is no problem, since this large majority or I can say that we do not all take advantage of or take advantage of hospital leave or hospital leave. As far as this additional work is concerned, we will also support this in these changes, but we are equally aware, as many of my predecessors already do, that there are still a lot of unresolved, not sufficiently sophisticated things here, so we expect to be listening to these things in the debates in the coming periods. This is also evidence of a well-known debate and decision-making on the Commission's mandate at the beginning of the mandate on these issues and problems are also open or incomplete in many other areas. That is why we expect to say a lot more about this law in the future, and perhaps even a little less about the privileges, etc., because sometimes things can be said differently and look at a little from the other point of view. As we say, we will support the changes to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.10 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A AMENDMENT LAW ON DETECTIVE ACTIVITY, PRIVATE PROCEDURE. I would like to inform you, however, that a total time of 31 minutes is foreseen for this debate. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In the meantime, I ask the Members of the Slovenian People's Party to calm down and let us continue the meeting. Comrade Kangler! Minister, I'm asking you to interview outside because you're in the way of the meeting. Thank you. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Representative of the government, Minister Dragutin Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The amendment of the law on detective activity covers only a few articles. This is another set of laws that we need to amend to comply with the law on offences. Some of these laws have already been dealt with in this mandate, and we still have some. Money fines are replaced by fines. In this change, however, we have taken advantage of this opportunity to propose an extension of the competitive clause from two to four years. In examining the circumstances in which workers working in internal affairs bodies or in certain other services, we have assessed that it is appropriate to extend the competitive clause from two to four years mainly for the purpose of protecting the personal data that these persons receive during their service and may then use them in an inappropriate way after their remembrance. Similar solutions are also present in other European countries, so it is very appropriate for us to extend the competitive clause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Ambassador Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! The Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a law amending the law on detective activities at its 11th meeting. We were also joined by representatives of the detective chamber and, as usual, representatives of the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly. The Legislative and Legal Service stressed that they had no substantive comments on the proposed provisions in terms of their tasks, with the exception of the comment that it had proposed to the applicant to further verify that the proposed legislative text was to be supplemented by a transitional provision in conjunction with Article 1 of the bill. Otherwise, she pointed out some drafting corrections to the text, which the proposal already took into account and also proposed amendments to the committee. The representative, the President of the Chamber of Detectives, also presented his opinion and stressed that in their view it would be necessary to maintain a competitive ban for a period of two years, as it would seem to them to extend the competition ban for four years unjustifiably, since detectives in the past did not take advantage of information. The representative of the applicant responded to the concerns expressed by the President of the Chamber of Detectives and indicated that the information abuses mentioned were not evidenceable. He also pointed out that they agreed with the legislative and legal services' comments and that they had also drawn up amendments to the Committee's opinion, as has been said, which were also adopted by the Committee. The members and members of the Committee did not further discuss and, at the end, confirm and vote on the proposal by 10 votes in favour and no votes against.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first position will be given by the DeSUS Group, Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In the DeSUS Group, of course, we support the amendment of the law on detective activity. We are pleased that, following the adoption of this law, the law will be brought into line with the amendments, that detectives will be able to carry out their duties as authorised officials of the Ministry of the Interior or of the Intelligence and Security Service and that they will be able to use information that is not accessible to everyone in the performance of their duties. In their work, they will also be able to use specific methods and means to alleviate their success. Compared to this service with others, our current period is short, the offenses quickly expire, the information is no longer useful. We believe that legislation is harmonised and appropriate for adoption. It is clear from the preparation of the legislative procedure proposal that all stakeholders, both the detective chamber, the government services and the legislative and legal service, participated in it. We have no doubt about the quality of the changes made to the law on detective activity; it ensures consistency in the decision-making of offences with which the competent criminal authorities and the courts will be able to decide quickly and conduct procedures for offences against the offenders of this law. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on detective activity will not be opposed by our parliamentary group and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Ambassador Kovachich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports amendments to the law on detective activities. It's just minor changes to the law now in force. On the one hand, it is a matter of alignment with the provisions of the new Act on Offences, which entered into force on 1 January of this year. However, the second amendment concerns the extension of the time limit for a competitive ban of two to four years from the date on which the applicant for a licence has performed the tasks of authorised officials within the Ministry of the Interior or the Intelligence and Security Services. We think it is appropriate to extend this period because we believe that this is information that is not publicly available and that only those who have been empowered within the Ministry of Interior or intelligence services can do so. We also believe that, after two years, such information is not yet useless and therefore, a detective who, because of his former authorised function, has officially obtained this information could also use you as a private investigator. This would give you a more favourable position compared to other detectives who offer their activities on the market. However, the proposed extension of four years is already such that more or less of the data or contacts obtained under the previous work at the Ministry of Home Affairs or within the security intelligence services become useless or significantly less usable due to the time-disengagement. Since the proposed law is appropriate and we do not see any objections to its contents, we will vote in favour of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I invite Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u75	Also in the New Slovenia Group, the Christian People's Party supports amendments to the law on detective activity, which, in addition to complying with the law on offences, also brings about a change in the period of the competition ban from two to four years. When we assessed the appropriateness of the proposed solution in the parliamentary group and it seems appropriate to us, we had before us, on the one hand, the right of the person who wishes to carry out a detective's activity, that is the right to freedom of work as set out in Article 15 of the Constitution and, on the other hand, the right to the information collected by the detective and his right to privacy, to the protection of personal rights as set out in Article 35 of the Constitution and also to the right to the protection of personal data as set out in Article 38 of the Constitution. The right of one and the other to strike here, and according to our Group of Members, they must have a greater weight than the last two. Authorised officials of the Ministry of the Interior and Security in their work often come to data on personal status, on relationships, of course, often also using specific methods and techniques. That being the case, in accordance with the law and the Constitution, this is then a permissible procedure. These must be interventions into rights that are and must be protected, rights to privacy, as well as certain other rights: the inviolability of housing, the confidentiality of letters and other publications, i.e. for interventions of public interest at the time. However, using such data in the context of the conduct of a private detective activity would somehow constitute an unacceptable intervention in this right, i.e. the right to privacy and personal rights, and the measure of a competitive ban for a certain period is necessary, otherwise it is not possible to pursue the objective. In fact, a naked ban on a detective not to use the data he received as an authorised official would be impossible and not possible to control. We can also read in the Constitutional Court’s decision that, if such a prohibition did not exist, it is reasonable to expect that a private investigator would use in his work all the knowledge and behaviour he has, so that it is impossible to prevent the use of data and contacts from the previous service otherwise than by prohibiting the management of this activity for a certain period of time in which data and contacts become obsolete and become useless or their useful value is reduced. According to the New Slovenia parliamentary group - the Christian People's Party, a new period is more appropriate in terms of preventing abuse, so we will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you. Ambassador Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support changes to the law, the law on detective activity. We certainly support this change, as regards the competitive clause, in order to change from two to four years. After all, we must be aware that, usually, detectives come from certain state authorities that have worked in these state bodies for many years, and the state has trained those persons and people who have learned anything about the work in the field of prosecution, the investigation of crimes, the large amount of money invested in them, and it would be unacceptable, when someone raises, educates them, trains them, that after such training, as well as every business has a price to pay, leaves work in public authorities, and becomes a private investigator immediately after two years. We support this change, although we can often witness through the seventh force, through means of public information, that detectives often use special methods and means to penetrate the privacy of individuals, even though it is still accessible to use specific methods and means only to the public authorities, and that decisions may be taken by the authorities in accordance with the rules and laws which may, on the basis of certain orders, enter into the privacy of individual entities. Here, however, we often miss the activity and intensity of those in state bodies who are tasked with monitoring the legality and work of Slovenian detectives. Here, however, we expect both the Ministry and the government to tighten the supervision of the work of individual detectives in this area. If I, as a mere citizen or a citizen, can determine by means of means of public information that a detective has violated the privacy of an individual by using special methods and means, I think that this is a fine example and a reason for those state authorities which are in any way in charge of monitoring the legality of detective activity to be able to cut off in such a case. According to statistics, only rare cases of state authorities directly overseeing individual detectives using such and different methods are contrary to certain regulations. These changes will be supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Bogdan Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In the Slovenian National Party, we are under the first indent, that is to say, the harmonisation of the law amending the law on detective activity with the law on offences, without any doubt, and this is a clear and clear statement that it is a shame to argue that, even if we do not want to, we must agree with the proposed amendment law. Also in the case of the second indent, in the case of a substantial change, where the competition ban is extended from two to four years, we are convinced in the Slovenian National Party that this is fair and fair, to one side and to the other; to the detective chamber and detectives, as to the other side that is being investigated, is being pursued, etc. Finally, if we already like to compare certain elements and even them, it is logical that if a three-year period of a competitive clause is in force in the economy, then at least that much should apply in all activities. It is also four years old, because it is a very sensitive topic and it is an opportunity where in practice there may be major abuses of information and data brought by someone from one or another activity which is linked to a detective, and this abuse of information and data may also lead to human rights violations, particularly those that are sought, investigated and pursued. I believe that this law on amendments to the law on detective activity is fair and fair to all those who can be compared with certain clauses or elements, while also fair to all those who will become members of this detective chamber and also become detectives. We will therefore also support the law amending the law on detective activity in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 19th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.10 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Period of the day - this is a defensive proposal for a law on the amendments to the law on public gatherings, after a reduced procedure. I would like to inform you that a total of 40 minutes is foreseen for this debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Minister of the Interior, Dragutin Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! You have before you an amendment to one article of the Public Assembly Act. In doing so, I would like to point out that since 2003, the law has governed the right to peaceful assembly of citizens and, of course, it also regulates certain specific areas in this regard. One of these is the provision of order at these events, which is required by law by the presence of directors in all the forms described in the law. The proposed amendment of the law to ensure order at state celebrations organised by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - would empower the police by this law. We estimate that such public events are less problematic and are not so threatened in relation to the threat to public order. At the same time, in accordance with the law on both the police and the law on public gatherings, the police are already carrying out certain activities, including in relation to certain regulations, with regard to the protection of certain facilities and persons present at such events. For this reason, it seems appropriate and, above all, rational for the police to take over this part of the task. This will not increase the essential work of police officers, but at the same time we will achieve a major impact and reduce the costs that are earmarked for national events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We have also considered this proposal for a law supplementing the law on public gatherings at our 11th regular meeting. In the course of the discussion, the representative of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, further explained Article 2 of the draft law, which provides that the order of state celebrations organised by the President of the Republic, the National Assembly and the Government shall be ensured by the police. He said that the applicant for such a solution had decided mainly on the high costs to be borne by the State budget for a certain number of directors set by the administrative unit for such celebrations, both at the same time and in the fact that we have ten thousand police officers in the country. He agreed with the members' assessment that only these are very burdensome, but he sees a large budget savings in the proposed solution and stressed that it is only matters of ensuring the safety of the event, but not of protecting protected persons, although they are usually present at such events. The police have already protected such celebrations with directors under the current law. In the context of the debate and the vote, the Committee also adopted its amendment. Otherwise, members of the committee said in the debate that they did not see on the one hand any particular reason for adopting the bill, since they did not see any security or other reasons for protecting already overburdened police officers during future national celebrations. The second part of the members, however, agreed with the proposal put forward by the Government. In its opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the proposed text of the bill had no comments. As it is said, the Committee has adopted its amendment and, in the end, has also approved and adopted the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of individual parliamentary groups. We will be the first to be briefed by the SDS Parliamentary Club, Ambassador Mitja Ljubeljšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u85	Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will always support those amendments and additions to the laws that will contribute to a more rational organisation and the use of budgetary resources. This is also the case with the proposed law. The proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Public Collections aims, on the basis of a more effective guarantee of order at national celebrations, a better utilisation of police capacity and a substantial savings of budgetary resources, as the proposed law confers on the police the legal powers now vested in the director's office for State events. In addition to ensuring security and other legal tasks, the police will also be responsible for ensuring order at state celebrations organised by the President of the Republic, the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The legislative and legal service, on a proposal from the law, had no significant comments. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice adopted an amendment to the Committee, which is only editorial in nature. The marriage was largely supported. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will also support the proposed law at today's meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation of the position of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Ambassador Dara Lavtijar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President, the well-respected assembly. By supplementing the law on public gatherings, the police will be given the authority to ensure order at national celebrations, due to the nature of such events and the structure of the participants in the national celebrations. In the LDS, we believe that such an amendment to the law is unnecessary. The Public Assembly Act already provides for order at all meetings and events of the director’s service, a sufficient number of directors with the director’s director. There are no real reasons for the proposed addition, and our assessment shows the nature of the current ruling coalition and the understanding of power. We know what we're talking about - self-improvement and complacency, protecting the director's office isn't enough for her, but she wants to be protected by police cordons. Who do they fear if they feel that ordinary directors cannot provide them with security? Otherwise, there are reasonable reasons for such changes in the fighting explanation - this includes the whole three sentences - he could not even mention the proposer, that is the government. Taking into account the staffing deficit in the police, such an addition entails unnecessary burden on the police with additional tasks, with tasks which have the character of the directoral service and for which police powers are not required. There are no security reasons for such a change. There are many more events in Slovenia each year, where the level of public order and peace is higher and police are not obliged to ensure order. We are wondering why this should be legalized for national celebrations, since there have been no major violations so far, and the police are still present at these events, not in large numbers, because they must implement other measures required by other regulations, such as the protection of certain facilities and persons under the authority of the police. In public, it was also possible to track the objections of some police representatives who disagreed with the solution proposed. Therefore, we will not support the LDS Members of this Act either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Member Miran Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary! The Public Assembly Act was adopted in June 2002 and was first completed in June 2005. At the time of the first amendment of the law in this mandate, the applicant analysed and found that the Public Assembly Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2003, had achieved its objectives. In view of the fact that the application process has been simplified, that work has been facilitated by the administrative authorities and that the number of public meetings and events has also increased as their application and organisation have only been simplified. Today we have before us a novel that foresees that we should change the powers of the police in the field of the protection of state celebrations organised by the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister. Security at these events should no longer be provided by security guards or directors, but by the police. We have assessed that, given the tasks that police must perform at similar events, and given the fact that the security service should be specifically hired and paid, such a proposal may be considered acceptable and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Ambassador Anton Kokalj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u91	The provisions of the proposed amendments to the current Law on Public Collections amend the law so that certain current provisions do not apply to State celebrations organised by the President of the Republic, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Ensuring order at these celebrations must be carried out by the State as an organiser, and this can be ensured through the authorities responsible for ensuring public order, which is through the police. The applicant assesses that such events do not constitute an increase in the threat to order, but it is necessary to implement the measures required by other regulations, which are the responsibility of the police, which makes it prudent to extend the powers of the police to the tasks of ensuring public order at these celebrations and events. In view of the above, the New Slovenia parliamentary group - the Christian People's Party - will support the bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable present. I would start by saying that in the Slovenian National Party we believe that all kinds of public meetings and other forms of demonstration provided by Slovenian legislation are a reflection of the democratic changes experienced by our country. As such in the Slovenian National Party we support, of course, if they are declared and adequately protected, so we will be the law that has been broken before us. We think it is right for the police to protect such an event within their jurisdiction. This would also protect the abuse of well-intentioned events for political purposes by adopting this law. The last such case took place in Maribor, when a group of people called "extended" used a well-intentioned event to realize their own political interests. We believe and believe that the amendment of this law and the adoption of this law today will prevent further exploitation, once again I stress the well-intentioned legitimate meetings that reflect political and democratic changes in our country, so we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members, Mr Willi Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. We are now witnessing one of the agenda items of today’s session, which will be relatively short, and this does not mean that it is completely irrelevant. While it would be expected that we would almost unanimously support such agenda items, it turned out that this is not the case. Our Group of Members, the DeSUS Group, will support this law. But I would like to draw attention to two things that are now being revealed here. The first is that we want to point out that it would be good, and today it has been pointed out that individual laws do not change so quickly and at short intervals, because this is especially for those who organize public events, but most often they are lovers' societies, and these changes are not so quickly accepted or noticed. This may result in less transparency, what and how to do, and, of course, probably less legal certainty because people in society fail to monitor all of this. The second point goes in this direction: the problem is the many events we mention and which concern us that the vast majority of people have the opportunity to take advantage of their free time so that they can maintain cultural, national and other heritage at these events so that they can take care of their physical and other health. I have in mind the entities that organise, the social entities that organise these events, so that we can talk about them, of course. For the requirements of how a single event should be protected and how it should be protected by the directorial service of an individual event mean not only for the country but also for societies a great financial burden. And if we continue to continue with additional relativisation and with additional financial burdens, it may be that societies will abandon this interest or, if they do, they will not have the opportunity to implement such programmes. Otherwise, we feel that it is right for the police to give this power, which is intended in this proposal to amend this law, because it is more rational, it is a matter of reducing costs, and also of regulating security and order at national events more comprehensively. So the DeSUS Group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, or no later than 21:00 and 10 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. I'm moving to 17. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the Act on the Official List of the Republic of Slovenia, after a reduced procedure. We have 28 minutes scheduled for the debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. I'd like a representative of the government, if he takes over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u97	Mr President, honourable Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled in the procedure the amendment of the Act on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, which brings two essential novelties. The first, important, which ranks us in the rare EU countries, which will have an electronic official paper in future - if I only mention it for example, are: Norway, Austria, Belgium, the United Kingdom, France and Denmark - as an official publication. This means that the current form, which is also available online, will no longer be merely an information form of the publication of the Official Journal, but also an official publication to which reference can be made. In the second part, the law seeks to regulate a national information database in which all legal resources, not only laws and sub-laws, are collected, but also judicial decisions of the ordinary and constitutional courts, as well as legal literature affecting the interpretation area of legislation. Therefore, within the government, in particular, in the government's legislative service, we want to establish a body that will have all these state authorities that have so far developed databases in a partial way - and in the recent period we have already achieved some connectivity or possibility of access from one centre to different databases - to concentrate on the government's service for legislation that will lead the project in the coming year when the law is to be enforced. In short, 2006 is a transitional period. From 1.1, we are moving to an official version of the electronic form of the Official Journal, and by the end of 2006 this electronic database should also be established, which will be available free of charge to all internet users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the committee. Before that, let me particularly welcome Mrs Jožica Velišček. Mrs. Kucleva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I also welcome the representatives of the government. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Official Journal was considered by the Committee at its 11th regular session. As regards the content, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service gave a written opinion, which referred to Articles 4 and 9 of the bill, and to which the proposed representative, the Director of the Government's Office for Law, replied. With regard to Article 4 of the draft law, the legislature considered that it would suggest that the provision of the new fourth paragraph should be re-examined, in particular as regards the issue of substantive differences or differences as regards the date of the outcome and what is considered a decisive fact here. In this regard, the representative of the applicant explained that the Official Journal has been in electronic form for eight years and that this bill has also formally been introduced as an authentic issue, which can be invoked in the exercise of rights, as well as in the printed edition of the Official Journal. With regard to the new fourth paragraph, she said that it was a general provision that would cover all those possible technical errors, which could also be the cause of a human factor that could actually happen when two different media with the same content. The official sheet in the printed edition will only be a printed form of its electronic version and, in the case of any differences of both versions, will apply to the authentic electronic version to which the printed edition will be adjusted. With regard to Article 9 of the bill, the representative of the proposer explained to the members and members that, in this case, the bill only regulates a situation that has been in operation for ten years. The Government's legislative service has had good ten years in its competence to create databases of the entire legislative process, and in this case it is not the regulatory competence of the government, as the legislative and legal service thinks, but the technical issues, the design and connectivity of the databases. The act governed by the new paragraph of Article 11a is, in essence, also within the editorial committee referred to in Article 11, paragraph 11,a in order to unify the way in which the current business and cooperation with all those who are already and will continue to be part of this system. As regards the transfer of the information system to the management of the public office, the Official Journal explained that it would be only a transfer of technology, not a content that remained within the competence of all competent authorities. The members of the committee on the draft law have not further discussed and adopted all the articles of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Andrej Kokalj. Here you go. Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Andrei is my son. The anticipated consequences of the proposed amendments to the law in the Official Journal go beyond the mere amendment and the addition of several articles of the law, which will enable the electronic issuance of the Official Journal, is free of charge access to the texts of the regulations required by the law on access to information of a public nature. The main advantage of the proposed amendments is to upgrade the legal information system of the Republic of Slovenia by registering the regulations of the Republic of Slovenia already issued under the applicable law, which would allow effective and transparent access to the applicable rules in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, including the reference to European regulations. It will be necessary to ensure that the rules are properly linked to the register indicators, the efficient search engines and the regulated links between the completed text of the individual rules. The electronic and printed edition of the Official Journal shall be issued on the same day if both issues do not take place on the same day or in the same text, an electronic issue shall be considered as the outcome. In the electronic edition of the Official Journal alone, invitations to tender, invitations to tender, registrations in court and other registries, cancellations and other publications to be published in the Official Journal by law or other regulations shall be published. In the process of examining the draft law, the issue of the administration of the legal information system was raised. The Act Law Service was transferred to the Public Company Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia. The delegation of these tasks should only take place after the full establishment of the system, and only with regard to the continued maintenance and updating of the system, and the Government should prescribe the obligations of both state authorities and public undertakings in relation to the legal information system. In this regard, a question was also raised about the changed economy of the public company Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, d.o.o., which will have to do more work or support the legal information system by providing significantly more functional content of the Official Journal than so far, while at the same time the number of copies of the printed Official Journal will surely be reduced. There could be an objective risk of greater burden on budgetary resources and less involvement of so-called private public participation in such a business. In this context, the Government is responsible for the successful, efficient and cost-effective implementation of the state budget project for the establishment of the legal information system. In doing so, it has certainly been assisted and guided by such European directives related to this area and, of course, by the practices of the EU Member States. The Group of Members will support the draft law and will also monitor its implementation with interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Dimitrij Kovacič. He's not here. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. I thought there were two more in front of me, that's why. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Its essential amendment, which is that it also legislates the Official Journal in electronic form, free of charge, is certainly a contribution to the greater accessibility of the Official Journal. This also allows interested citizens, as well as others, who live in our country during individual periods, to be better informed in the applicable law in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The implementation of the Act will also provide a better basis for upgrading the electronic form of the register of regulations and consequently for more transparent and rapid access to all copies. This will enable the legal information system of the Republic of Slovenia to provide information support to the entire legislative process from the beginning of the preparation of the regulation until its publication in the Official Journal. Access to not only all applicable rules in the territory of Slovenia will also be restricted, but a link to EU rules will also be made possible. We also welcome the arrangements under which certain publications, in particular the publication of public calls, will be published only electronically, as this certainly simplifies and rationalises procedures, which is certainly a trend that will need to be followed in the future, so our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 19th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.10 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the financing of municipalities, a short-term procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. By then, however, the National Assembly will have suspended the meeting because we will be waiting for the Minister, as presidents, I think it is such important material that we need an introductory representative. I'm adjourning the session for 10 minutes, which means we'll resume at 12:00 and 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u105	Dear Members and Members! Continue with the 19th item of the agenda. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u106	Dear Members [[There is currently no Member]] Oh, my God! I'm sorry we're late, but you're working too fast. In the past period, especially in recent years, the situation in the area of local community funding has deteriorated significantly for the vast majority of municipalities. The country has delegated a number of tasks to the local community and has not provided the necessary additional financial resources. Thus, for the majority of municipalities, the possibility of carrying out development tasks was largely reduced. The government has already proposed some solutions, including by favouring the National Assembly, such as a 10% increase in the 2005 budget balance, which improves the financial position of the majority of municipalities. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the financing of municipalities further improves this position. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Community funding contains amendments and additions aimed at enhancing the capacity of municipalities to carry out long-term indebtedness for specific purposes of financing investments in local public infrastructure and additional co-financing from the state budget resources to speed up the implementation of municipal development programmes and to provide an opportunity to mobilise European funds. Allow me to present you with the most important solutions. The first part of the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law relate to the indebtedness of the municipalities, so that the purpose of the law is not to resolve the financing of municipalities by way of debt, and I stress in particular. This will allow future congregations to replace unfavorable debt with a more favourable one. With the changes relating to the permitted scope of the debt, an increase in the percentage, which determines the possible total extent of the municipality's debt, is from 10 to 20% of the base. The municipalities will be able to be indebted to a greater extent if the resources of the debt are intended to finance investments in specific areas, basic education, housing, water supply and public infrastructure, waste water management and all investments co-financed by the European Union. For the transparency of indebtedness, it is important to provide that all forms of contractual relations are included in the scope of the debt. The second part of the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law relate to co-financing the tasks and investments of municipalities from the state budget. Amendments to the law allow for accelerated implementation of development policies in specific areas and structural and cohesion policies. The procedure for granting additional appropriations from the State budget is amended. The unnecessary duplication of procedures in ministries is eliminated and the powers of the regional ministries and the ministries of finance are precisely delimited. In accordance with the proposed new Article 26a, a new specific item is set up in the State budget to co-finance municipal investments under the regional development programmes implementing structural cohesion and pre-accession policies at local level. The annual amount of the special item depends on the total appropriate consumption of municipalities and amounts to 3% of that amount. In accordance with the proposed new 26 b. the article will be provided to municipalities, which, in the manner laid down by the Local Self-Government Act, jointly perform the tasks of the municipal administration, with an additional grant of 50% in the previous year of the realised costs for this purpose from the State budget. The additional resources under the proposed law are already planned in the draft budget for 2006. I thank you for your attention and for your support of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you for the introductory explanation. Procedurally, please. Please, if you can turn off for time and again [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u108	President, thank you so much for your word. My procedural proposal is as follows. Please ensure that the decision of the interested working body, the budgetary control committee and other public finances adopted in the framework of the 5.9th pardon 2.9 is taken, and it is stated that the budgetary and other public finances monitoring committee proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide the national assembly with information on the state of the debt in the municipalities prior to the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the financing of municipalities in the second reading - we have proposed to provide information on the state of the debt in the municipalities at the meeting of the home working body, with particular reference to the available data on commodity credits, financial and operational leasing. This decision was adopted by a majority, with a pardon, in agreement with all those present, both Members of the position and the coalition, and with the express agreement of the Secretary of State that this will be delivered. Today's second debate is under way, following the Government's opening statement, we have not heard any further explanation of what is going on with this and I suggest, Mr President, that the point should be interrupted so that this document can be delivered so that the content of the law can be discussed on this basis. On the contrary, the President, in fact, we are discussing important elements of the law without knowing exactly what it means to increase the scope of the debt, as the law provides for in individual municipalities. So I would ask if, in accordance with the rules of procedure and the conclusions of the national assembly, the government would do what it itself said it would do before the second consideration of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you for your procedural proposal, given that I also assess and believe that all Members and Members of Parliament have estimated that we are considering extremely important matter, namely the law on the financing of municipalities, I will, in accordance with my competences, basically convene a consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, to which I invite the Minister and the Secretary of State. I propose that we convene or listen to the presentation of the working body before this meeting, and the consultation will take place immediately before the individual positions of the groups of Members are presented. Do you agree with that? Then we came up with a plan for this point. I therefore give the floor to my colleague Paulet Rupar, who will introduce us to the position of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. My friend Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As Chairman of the Local Self-Government Committee, I protest such a way of working and such proposals. If it is a parent committee, then I see no point in dealing with the demands and wishes of another committee at the point covered by this committee. If, in my opinion, at least the Committee on Budgetary Control was in line, then, of course, we could request, and at this point, at least in my opinion, it goes beyond the powers and even if I procedurally fail to see it and protest it as Chairman of the Committee on this type of work, because it may be a complete deceiving. Nobody in this country has this information, and they can't even have it because it's different loans. Personally, I would be very happy if, for example, I could finally see once the assignments of the LDS still under control, even if the arguments or attacks I am experiencing were simply rejected, but the opinion was already on the local side. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u111	Mr Pavel Rupar, I must interrupt you at this time, you are reporting to the committee, not your personal position. Please proceed with the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u112	Presidents, I speak on behalf of the Committee and I also have this written, but of course I can use it as a representative or chairman of this Committee. I continue to ask only so much for the autonomy of the committee, if the committee, of course you represent or whose chairman you are, does not interfere with the local self-government committee. The introduction to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of municipalities was addressed by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body at its 5th session, on 9 September, by a government proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of municipalities, and took note of the opinions delivered by the Legislative and Legal Service, the mayors of the various municipalities, the two associations, the Commission of the National Assembly on Budgetary Control and other public finances as an interested body and the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia. In its second reading of the draft law, the Committee took into account individual opinions and most of the comments of the legislative and legal service in the discussion in the individual articles. On this basis, the Committee has identified itself to the amendments tabled and has also adopted its amendments. To the amendments to Article 1, he proposed deleting a part of the provision that raised the question of how the competent minister would determine that the responsibility of the municipalities would jeopardise the fulfilment of the Convergence Programme or the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pacts, as well as the question whether the indebtedness of the municipality could affect the fulfilment of the Convergence Programme at all. With regard to the warnings of the legislative and legal service concerning Article 2 that there is a lack of clearly defined criterion for assessing the manner in which the possible extent of the indebtedness of the municipalities and the repayment of principals and interest in years for which the municipality has not yet adopted the budget, the amendment took into account that the Committee should provide a basis for determining whether the indebtedness within the legal framework is justified by objective data and not provided for. In addition, the Committee supported the proposal to provide municipalities with additional responsibility for investment in housing and water supply, as additional scope of the debt is also available for waste water resources. The Committee also adopted the text of Article 3 in the sense of the legislative and legal service’s comment. This Article provides that the founders shall be designated by a body which decides on the issue of an agreement on the borrowing of public undertakings and the distribution of such obligations to other municipalities of co-owners of public undertakings. It also made the provision of Article 4 clearer. Article 5 clearly sets out when the municipality can start with an investment for which it is entitled to additional resources from the State budget. He also drew up a text which gave the Minister responsible for finance the power to issue instructions to the really competent ministers for obtaining prior consent. The discussion also expressed a number of opinions related to the requirement for greater financial autonomy of municipalities and the provision of additional tax resources to municipalities for their financing. I propose to the National Assembly that the amendment proposal and the amendment of the law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you. In accordance with the procedural proposal, the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups in room 217 will begin in five minutes. However, I would like to ask the Minister, as well as the Chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the interested working body, Mr Cwickl, to participate in the consultation. We'll continue the session at 1:30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u114	Colleagues, we continue our adjourned session. As you know, my colleague, Vice-President Peca, has suspended the meeting to clarify Mr Mag's procedural proposal. Exercises, President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance. In view of the agreement on this informal consultation, I would like to ask Mr Squeakle to repeat his procedural proposal, on which we will vote. Please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! Before continuing the discussion, I propose that the National Assembly decide on the following procedural proposal: The National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide the State Assembly with data on the state debt situation in the municipalities, as provided for in the applicable legislation, immediately before continuing its consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the financing of municipalities in the second reading. Pika. It's a procedural proposal. Let me explain. The Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have this information at their disposal. These data are available through Slovenian municipalities, very precise, since 1995, in accordance with the applicable legislation, as has been procedurally defined in the amendment of the Law on Community Financing in 1998. These data say that on average the Slovenian municipality is in charge of 1% of the gross domestic product. However, since all the Slovenian budgets are 5% of the state budget, we have, of course, a situation where in some municipalities this debt is higher than the law now defines, and higher than 10%, while in others it is below 10%. In some municipalities it even reaches 50 and over 50% of the revenue of municipalities. This is also in the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances and, in my personal opinion and in the opinion of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy, one of the main reasons why we are adopting this law. Even in the light of the observations of the Court of Auditors, under the terms "to legalise the over-indebtedness of the type of Slovenian municipalities", we are Members of the National Assembly - we should decide to increase the indebtedness of municipalities to 20%. I think it is important that we know and that the Slovenian public knows how much each congregation is in charge. Because it is only the indebtedness of an individual congregation and the increase of that limit that is actually the answer that we want to achieve today when amending the Law on Community Financing. I therefore believe that this procedural proposal is more than justifiable. I regret that from 2.9. to 28.9.2005 the government failed to provide this data. This is why we use the last option provided by the Rules of Procedure, which is that by means of a procedural proposal such a decision is voted by the National Assembly and obtained. If this proposal is rejected, of course, you do not wish to adopt amendments to the Law on Community Financing in a transparent manner. Please, Mr Vice President, this is a procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you very much. There is no explanation of vote and no discussion on procedural proposals. [[Back-up advertising.]] We'll finish first. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] No, we'll decide that now. There was plenty of time to consult. We decide on this procedural proposal, not the content. Okay, how much rest do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u117	Before voting on this procedural proposal, our parliamentary group wishes a 45-minute recess, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u118	Good. I don't have a choice but to stop this meeting for 45 minutes. We'll continue at 2.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u119	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in accordance with our decision to suspend the meeting in 45 minutes, we continue. It's 2:20. Allow me to begin by explaining the apparent complication of the procedural issue and the later requests for termination. Mrs Zalokar Orazem, I have therefore not given the floor from the outset because she has responded to the procedural proposal. And it's usually one thing to decide first, the first procedural, and then the second. But it turned out that it was not a procedural proposal, but a request in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73, on the basis of which each leader, I repeat, has the right to request a suspension for consultation before the vote. And I believe that Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem had the authority of the leader of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I would now like to propose, Mrs Zalokar Orazem, if you would state or explain your request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I hope it is not an embarrassment, but I have had the power of my Group of Members to request, on behalf of the Group of Members, a recess which was necessary in connection with this decision. We have decided to support the decision proposed by Comrade Cwickle, because we believe that the time when we adopt amendments to the Law on the Financing of the Communities and by which we substantially increase the level of indebtedness of the municipalities is necessary, in fact, to make a balance of how many congregations are actually in debt. The Commission, led by Mr Cwickl, has already warned about this on 2 September. And our assessment is that the Ministry of Finance has had sufficient time to draw up such a balance sheet from 2 September to today. Last but not least, we all know that at least as far as legitimate debt is concerned, that's no problem. The municipalities shall regularly send reports of their indebtedness or financial status to the Ministry of Finance. In this we see the re-ignoration of government representatives, specifically the Ministry of Finance, who does not wish to come before the highest legislative body at a time when it is making an extremely difficult decision, for which it needs certain information that is necessary in this case. Therefore, we find it inappropriate to wait for this information so that it can be prepared very quickly if it is desired. Of course, there is and is still an open problem of illegal forms of indebtedness, to which many authorities warn us, the Court of Auditors has found many cases. And also the percentage, which was given as a figure on the indebtedness of Slovenian municipalities, says that this percentage is higher than the average debt would allow. Of course, we know that data on illegal forms of debt cannot be obtained. We want information on legitimate forms of debt. Of course, given what has been happening, we absolutely believe that this law cannot be the one that will cover illegal conduct in the past in such a way that it actually legalizes and legalizes these things. While we do not know what these numbers are and the debt we welcome to receive this opportunity, it is not the only way and it cannot be the only way to provide financial assistance to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The procedural proposal has already been explained, there is no further explanation and there is no debate, Mr Sok. It's just a matter of procedure. Please tell me. [[Back-up advertising.]] There is no explanation for the vote on procedural or procedural matters. Therefore, I will not repeat the proposal that has already been fully presented. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. For the procedural proposal of Magi. The exercise voted 23 to 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I find that the procedural proposal has not been put to the vote. We continue with this agenda item. We are talking about the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the financing of municipalities and continue to present the views of the parliamentary groups. I invite Mr Mikhael Prevc to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian municipalities have been known to be in a very unenviable position in recent years. The State imposed only new and new legal obligations on the municipalities, which were not financially covered. It is not difficult to calculate that, with such a stepmotherly attitude, the state has lost at least 30% of the money for the necessary investments, in particular in the area of municipal infrastructure. Some municipalities were forced into illegal debt and were able to dispose of excessive sales of municipal property. Therefore, the mayors through both associations, both the ZOS and the SOS, have been alerted to the urgent changes in the area of municipal funding, which must be provided with the necessary financial resources to strengthen the status, to raise adequate spending, to develop development projects and to build road and other infrastructures. The parishes of Slovenian municipalities are pleased to note that with the new government in Minister Ivan Žagar, who is responsible for local self-government and regional policy on the side of the country, we have finally received an interlocutor who understands the needs and problems of Slovenian municipalities. The first step in this direction was the 2005 budget rebalancing, which included 10% of the additional funding in the appropriate consumption of municipalities. The second step to improve the financial situation of municipalities will be the adoption of a bill amending and supplementing the law on the financing of municipalities. The proposal for a law contains urgent amendments and additions to the Law on the Financing of Communities, which remove unreasonable restrictions on the indebtedness of municipalities, which constitute an obstacle to the implementation of their development programmes, to the effective provision of municipal tasks under the regional development programmes and to the accelerated absorption of European funds. This is an increase in the level of municipal debt, which will not jeopardise Slovenia's entry into the monetary union, as the debt scheme proposed by the law is transparent and increases and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u123	I'm asking for some attention and peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u124	In particular, it increases the transparency of the indebtedness of the municipalities. [[...]] The bill provides the municipalities with additional funds to help them in the area of regional incentives and to draw on European funds. The bill also encourages municipalities to join joint municipal administrations, as this would contribute to rationalising the costs of urgent professional employment. However, the proposal for a law points out that only amendments and amendments to the law cannot solve the whole problem and the accumulated problems of past years in this area and that a comprehensive approach will have to be taken to solving these problems, through the system-wide financing law already being drawn up by Minister Zhagar. I believe that a comprehensive reform of the law at this time is not feasible, as it requires extensive professional preparation. It is therefore necessary to regulate, with minor amendments to the law, in particular those restrictions on the financial autonomy of municipalities, which will at least in the short term allow for more effective provision of municipal tasks. This, however, makes it possible for the members of the Slovenian People's Party to break the bill that we have on the table today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Again, I ask for a little more peace in the Chamber and I invite Mr Bogdan Barovic to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, first of all colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly! If the law on amendments and additions to the law on the financing of municipalities exists, it is not in accordance with the European Charter on Local Self-Government, it is necessary to harmonise this law. Finally, 90% of Slovenians decided to go to Europe. That's one reason to speak in favor of changes in the law if you're disturbed in this area. And a second time. I don't know why it wasn't in this law or why it was much more emphasized in this explanation - this is true, Mr Minister, and also you, your services, the criticism - because we all know that if we go now to look at the balance sheet, how many billions of dollars we haven't used from the European Structural Cohesion Funds, we could. And now we rush them, we hunt the train, and it's the fact that, even in this way, with a substantial change, the possibility of borrowing 20% of the revenue generated by the municipal budget in the year by the municipalities we're going to have to co-finance the investments that will be financed by Europe. This could be more emphasized and perhaps viewed by some or all others. I don't know what's wrong with this law to make it possible to reprogram debts. In fact, those congregations in charge were in charge under certain conditions. You know the price of money was very high or otherwise years ago, interest was enormous. And this law gives the possibility that the debt that some municipalities have is reprogrammed by debt from another bank, from another institution, legally, which provides a much more favourable price for money. And it's nothing wrong with this marriage. In this law it is worth considering and wondering whether it will be possible to hold that the competent minister, the Minister of Finance, can in any way block the indebtedness of the municipalities. Of course, that would not be fair, and let us also acknowledge that. To say that now he does not allow the indebtedness of some congregations simply to prevent us from introducing the euro, an example. That's the bad side. Of course, it is also a question of the formation and complexity of the congregation’s own income. Here too are questions as to whether, through this law, any other arrangement could be made so that all taxes, especially those collected by the congregation, could be used entirely, directly, and not immediately, as we know it. In short, this marriage also has some bad sides. Given that it is in line with Article 9 of the European Charter, because in the Slovenian National Party, where we were the only Eurosceptics, we say that if we have already joined the club at the will of the people, we will respect the rules of this club. If the possibility of debenving municipalities to 20% of the revenue realised will help municipalities use European funds, great. I also hope that it will not constitute a 20% debt, that is, 10% more than it has been possible so far, that this will not mean that we will have to lend the country, given the way the municipalities have been financed. I sincerely hope so, and now I say this clearly on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, because we are going to make a strong call if that ever happens. I hope that's not the way it's gonna be. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not object to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the financing of municipalities because of the many useful facts we see. But it is not right to end, I am speaking on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, to argue here about what was and what was not legal, how the municipalities were legally or illegally indebted. I am ashamed to hear someone say that the congregation was illegally in charge. Why? Because then we need to make one new law on the supervision of those financial services [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u127	Mr. Barovich, time's up. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Willi Rezman to present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Now, after a long time and in my judgment, we will continue the unnecessary pause with the long debate that has been announced. Six hours is predicted, which is actually nothing bad if we think it's really important things, at least as far as the municipalities are concerned, and if we think we're going to face real and wise arguments. We, too, in the DeSUS Group, are not most pleased that the data requested by the Committee on Budgetary Control have not been transmitted, but we consider that this is not a reason not to discuss professionally and on the ground, as it is important for us to have a cumulative debt of all municipalities. This is less than 1% of the social gross product, according to the data provided to us. So we're not without all the data. We've got the basics. However, we would like to draw attention to something else in our Group, on the proposal of the amendment to Article 2, which will be amended by amending the amendment. If only in the grave indication, this amendment of the coalition states that the expected revenues, i.e. the possibility of being in charge of the expected revenues, should be written for those realised in the past period. This is also in the spirit of a different ambition of the law to work with real data, with verifiable data, and not with predictions. Otherwise, we estimate that it is a solution that does not have what it should have. It does not have all the systemic, essential dimensions in order for the congregations to actually be financially rehabilitated. But this marriage probably doesn't have that purpose. Since it does not have this comprehensive purpose, we will also support the law. If we were to say a bit malice, it is actually a law on congregation debt, and we might even write in the subtitle that it is actually a task for the development of the congregations. Therefore, we feel that it is necessary to support him. Although in fact he is mitigating for the negative consequences of the period when we really received assignments that were not working for us and with them financial obligations, even though there is some kind of palliative, we will support him. Perhaps the main weakness of this law - however, it seems to point out - is that the reasons for the current state of law are not resolved. For many reasons, there are also other sectoral laws that affect the congregations in carrying out their responsibilities under the law. It will happen, unfortunately, that if we do not quickly get systemic legislation and changes in other areas, these causes will generate the same consequences as we are now witnessing. However, the law is needed because the financial situation in most municipalities is really worse than it would have wanted, because the municipalities are largely unable to draw on the development of earmarked funds, and also because it provides an opportunity to reduce regional differences. We'd like to draw attention to another flaw in our debt. Pointing to the fact that short-term debt can, in fact, solve some problem, but the problem with postponement. This problem is then returned to the starting point by paying off, thus with a period of time. However, we do have some strange developmental amplitudes when we rent large loans in a certain year, and in the coming years we only pay it back. The lack of this is some kind of tidalization, and I hope that this is not political tidality related to local or national elections. As we have said, we will support this law, but we will also support the amendment that will be tabled to amend Article 2, which will fix it, I believe that only a printing error in the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Ms Maria Possonec has the floor on behalf of the Hungarian National Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u130	Nice greetings to all present. There is an urgent need for reform in the area of community funding, for there are many problems in this area. The municipalities of the year and year receive additional tasks for which they do not have funding. Regarding funding, several criteria should be taken into account: number of people, size of the municipality, length of municipal roads, distance from the administrative unit. The municipalities in which there are major economic problems give a lot of money for social services, such as parental contributions to kindergarten, school meals, transport of children. I hope that the new text of this law will be more favorable to the congregations and that some problems will be solved by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Paulet Rupar to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u132	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will certainly confirm the bill's proposal, and at the outset, let me say that it is a wrong opinion, a false interpretation that this law has been proposed by the government and that we should adopt it in order to legalise debts that have been leased outside the framework of the law in the municipalities. We strongly reject this, although it is difficult to talk about legal loans if these were leased for investments, it is better to talk about the ingenuity of individual municipalities, how to meet the continuously increased debts imposed on municipalities by the government and individual ministries in the past. We must therefore be very, very aware that most of the social problems, in particular the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, under Minister Dimovski, have been constantly sending through this Parliament the coalition to the municipalities of additional duties in this area. Let me mention that municipalities care for both schools, but the worst thing that had to happen in Slovenia is that it was accepted in the field of education - nine years old. At that time, new criteria for the premises came and the municipalities were in charge of a proportional share with the State to ensure the construction and implementation of these facilities or this program. This is an ingenuity of the congregation, the word in place rather than an illegal debt. I am convinced that it has been entirely justified to satisfy these requirements that the congregations have intervened in such institutions. Once again, let me stress that the law is not designed to legalize what has been left to the congregations in ingenuity. In particular, this law allows for an additional and increased debt for the future, i.e. for those projects that the municipalities and the state are planning in cooperation with the finances coming from the European Union, i.e. on various structural, cohesion and other funds. In this case, municipalities must provide money and, for start-up, at least for the partial implementation of projects, which are reimbursed from the European Union, most of them will receive the money they invest in such projects, which have also been confirmed in our ministries and in Brussels. Where, though, the congregations are supposed to receive money, if they are unable to determine in the course of the year how Brussels or the government will decide, of course, is the possibility of marriage, which is that they will be further indebted. The criteria for this are perfectly clear in this law. I must stress once again, no municipality in Slovenia, as far as I know them, has been indebted in the past for its own sake, I will say, ambitious will or for myself, because of the mayor or because of the municipal council, but in particular to be able to meet the requirements they have received from the state or government level. I would also like to point out that in the past there have been many, many problems, including the desire for additional resources that municipalities are expected to have as a source of funding, but most municipalities are also avoiding the availability of population standards. However, on behalf of the SDS Group, I can, of course, point out that the solution to the increase in the indebtedness of this bill is far more acceptable than additional funding. Of course, we also approve, somehow we accept that these debts would not be for just one term of office, because they are goods that are financed by EU projects, which are also intended for generations in the future. And if we pay part of it with loans under this law, it is our assessment that it is correct and that nothing is wrong. Once again, we will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u133	Mrs Zalokar Orazem has the floor to present the position of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! Colleagues and colleagues! The amendments to the Law on the Financing of the Communities were one of the most difficult to expect, since the law in force is full of incomparable solutions that no longer have anything to do with reality and, above all, the difficult financial situation in which the congregations have been in for some time. Above all, it is clear that the municipalities, including those self-financing, do not have sufficient resources to develop and urgently co-finance projects on calls for European Structural and Cohesion Funds. Unfortunately, however, the changes made by the government only partially resolve the problems. Amendments to the law will allow municipalities to be significantly more indebted both in terms of its height and overly complex procedure, which we support in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, but we point out that this is only a short-term solution that may work a year or two, especially until the next elections, but will not significantly increase the financial capacity of the municipalities, as money will one day have to be returned. In the long term, however, it is absolutely necessary to find other suitable tax resources for the functioning of municipalities and to ensure financial autonomy for most. The municipalities will be able to re-indemnify up to 20% of the budget's realised revenues, which is even more than before, and may also be another 3% for some selective investments, while we support the amendment to allow for investments in waste management or in the entire public municipal infrastructure, as it seems incomprehensible that this extremely problematic area is being eliminated. We also propose in the LDS that municipalities that already have authorised investments from the European Union funds be given credit in the amount of appropriations for the period when the municipality does not yet receive these funds and does not have them and this is some sort of over-indebted debt. So far, municipalities have also pointed out the complex and bureaucratic process of obtaining consent when indebted by the Ministry of Finance. This is simplified and carried out within the ministries themselves, which may at first seem to be simplification and relief for the congregations. On the other hand, we fear that this can mean an even longer process and also unfair selectivity. It is also unusual that the Ministry of Finance does not have and will not provide us with accurate information on the current indebtedness of the municipalities and that we are nevertheless aware from the Court of Auditors' reports that many municipalities are in debt illegally and beyond the limits allowed. To keep it a secret, we have certain information that we do not know if they are credible, because they are not obtained with certain stamps and signatures. However, according to our data, there are 40 municipalities in Slovenia that are in debt through a statutory measure at the moment, which did not comply with the legal limits which were in breach of the law, including municipalities that are in charge of over 100% of municipal budgets. This situation is worrying, and nowhere do we have the assurance that this higher indebtedness will be a limit beyond which individuals will not again intervene. The law also provides municipalities with additional funds to co-finance regional development programmes, amounting to 3% of the total eligible consumption of municipalities, representing more than 5 billion additional funds. Thank you! In doing so, we do not agree in the LDS that such a large amount of 5 billion dollars will be distributed on the basis of the criteria and criteria to be determined only later by the Minister for Local Self-Government, and the way and procedure for the approval of these funds will be determined later. Such a solution is not transparent, but we are also afraid of adapting the criteria and criteria to politically correct municipalities. These funds are necessary, necessary, and there should be no doubt about their division. It should be shared equally and without political influence, which is not guaranteed in this way. I repeat, it is 5 billion tolars, and I do not think anyone has the means to share them through budgetary rules and criteria just like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! We also regret that, in the Social Democrats Group, we have not obtained a full review of the indebtedness of individual local communities until today and that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision to actually obtain this before this very important law is examined. The analysis of the state of funding of municipalities in itself requires substantial changes in the direction of ensuring the financial autonomy of local communities. This conclusion does not state that the proposal for amendments to the law that we are adopting today is irrelevant and that there is no need to regulate the areas of debt in this area. However, this is only part of the content that should be covered in the systematic regulation of the financing of municipalities. This is not to be overlooked by the findings of the National Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, which states that the implementation of this law will further increase the indebtedness of municipalities or the legalisation of the illegal debt carried out in the past. An important warning that cannot be ignored. The data that only slightly more than 10% of municipalities are self-financed in Slovenia is worrying and is certainly due to inadequate solutions in existing legislation. At the same time, it reiterates the irregularities that we have committed in the National Assembly when we have only established these in the process of establishing new congregations beyond the criteria that we have previously enacted. Legislation, which also promotes simple mathematical calculations of further fragmented municipalities, is certainly not good. The new system arrangements for the financing of municipalities should certainly be based on incentives for the integration of municipalities into autonomous, financially independent local communities, which must have autonomous sources of funding which cannot be compromised by the State by its repeated interventions. In addition to the territorial functional, organisational and legal elements of local self-government, one of the most important is, or above all, the so-called material financial element, which covers its own material and financial resources. It is therefore necessary to ensure the adequacy of financial resources while at the same time providing financial autonomy to local communities for the successful development of local self-government. In doing so, it is essential to stress that the legal powers to carry out certain tasks must be supported by financial resources for their implementation. This is particularly true of the tasks that are transferred by law to the implementation of the municipalities. And when we talk about local self-government, we certainly cannot limit freedom to local communities in determining the advantage of spending. Otherwise, they become a centre for the allocation of funds, the purpose of which is to be determined in advance. In the amended draft law, the mother's working body has incorporated a number of changes that we have pointed out in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Article 1 deletes the provision allowing the Minister of Finance to assess the harm to be done to the municipalities in relation to the convergence programme. This determination could very well become an argument for a political assessment based on a criterion, ours, which is increasingly being applied in practice. The municipalities are also given additional responsibility for investment in housing and water supply, which was not covered by the basic proposal of the law. We are still convinced that our amendment deals more fully with the area of indebtedness, and we have re-invested it in the procedure because it was rejected on its working body. The proposed law therefore regulates an area that needed to be regulated but raises the question of whether the problems arising from the financing of municipalities can be addressed only by an increased level of debt. In the Social Democrats Group, we believe that this is not the case, and we expect a comprehensive solution from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the direction of ensuring and ensuring greater financial independence of local communities or municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Martin Mikolič, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u138	Well-welcome chairman, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party we will support the proposed amendments to the Law on Community Financing. To begin with, I should like to point out, or point out, that the Home Committee has said that these are only partial solutions to the Government's drafting of a new system law on the financing of municipalities. The government will therefore take a comprehensive approach to solving the problem in this area, because only through changes and amendments to the law can it solve the whole problem and the accumulated problems of past years. In fact, today we can ask ourselves what the new law of 1998 and 1999, which instead of the so-called guaranteed consumption, introduced appropriate consumption to the municipalities by using a famous formula of four parameters or criteria for calculation. Today we can ask ourselves whether this law is not the case in the past, because it is a possibility that the State indirectly exploits by transferring tasks to the local community without paying attention to providing the necessary additional funds for the performance of these tasks. Why such a claim? Since there are no criteria for individual areas on the basis of which the municipality would be entitled to financial resources, that is, on the basis of the actual need or consumption. As it is said, the four parameters affect the calculation of the appropriate consumption of the new liabilities we have received in the past, but did not affect the change in these parameters, the appropriate consumption changed only to a change in the height of the principal. But we all know how much change has been made over the last three or four years. Minimum. This may be the case today, which has been up-to-date, but I will only mention one of the many in recent years that the local community, which has no family assistant, and those that it has, say, 10 or 20, is in fact the same base for each other, to calculate the appropriate consumption. This does not mean that the old marriage was good, the one that had been before because he had quite a weakness. However, we want to say that the current law on the financing of municipalities is very unpopular to rural and smaller congregations. These are the municipalities which, according to the New Slovenia Group of Members, have played a very important role in the Slovenian space in the future. You know, it is easy with the "suitable financial law", under the heading, if I may say so, to determine which municipality will be able to survive in the future or, in the coming period, who will have the conditions for the newly formed municipality in this respect. That is why we support the government to prepare a new system law, from which we expect a lot in our parliamentary group. We also welcome and very welcome the proposed changes that we are considering today and which are particularly affecting the system of indebtedness of municipalities, which will allow municipalities in particular to make investment projects easier to carry out. The proposed amendments shall not jeopardise the convergence programme. Thus, regardless of the basic threshold of 20% of the debt, the municipality will be in a position to finance investments in basic education, housing, water supply and public infrastructure for waste water management and investments co-financed by European Union funds, provided, of course, that the payment of principal and interest in a given year does not exceed by an additional 5% of the additional 3% of the revenue generated from the balance of revenue and budget expenditure in the year preceding the year of the debt reduced for the contributions received and the transfers of revenue from the State budget for investment. As of 1 January next year, municipalities will be eligible for up to 3% of additional expenditure on projects co-financed in the area of regional development programmes and for the implementation of structural cohesion or pre-accession policy at local level. An additional 50% grant will also be granted to municipalities which have joint municipal bodies established to carry out joint tasks. We will support the proposed changes in the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the two articles and the amendments tabled to be led by the review of the amendments of 27 September 2005. We are starting the debate on the amendments to Article 2, which I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, the two amendments of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS's parliamentary groups, which I must say that, on the basis of Article 131, paragraph 7, and its analogous application, I have allowed the amendment to be amended. You will receive correction of the amendment at any time on the table. Let me say that it is only a matter of changing one word, i.e. the word "predicted" is replaced by the word "realised". As we say, the amendment will be here any minute. Let me say that this is a legal void in the Rules of Procedure, and it is therefore possible to apply this paragraph of Article 131 in an analogous manner. For the first time, however, I have supported this decision in the interpretation of the business commission as regards the withdrawal of the amendment at the second reading of the national assembly, and also in a similar case in the past, when it was so decided. I am opening a debate on all four amendments to Article 2. Who wants a word? For now, I'm going to read who called. There's no limit to this circle. They spoke to Mr Milan Petek, Mrs Zalokar Orazem and Mr Kontić. Mr. Friday, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues! I must say that I actually support all four amendments to this Article 2. I believe that some are less complete and therefore, in the background of this support, some are a little more complex, more complete and I think that, of course, they had to take precedence in my vote. I'll tell you which one I give the advantage to later. Even earlier, I would like to say that I personally assess that, of course, this is not the right way to resolve congregation problems. Increasing the scope of indebtedness is not a recipe that actually improves the situation in these congregations, but is a recipe that in some ways blurs a little, in some ways brings little around, so it works the way past those real solutions that you should get sooner or later. I think it was and that this government had enough time to propose comprehensive solutions. The reasons for such a situation in these municipalities, in my opinion, are the inappropriate criteria for calculating appropriate spending, which in fact is increasing in potential for this and when we join the EU, when the structure of the state budget is gradually changing and, as a result, changes also from the structure of the municipal budgets. I think it should be a priority for the government to act in this area to change these criteria, which will actually allow for autonomy or increased funding for municipalities in the context of the share of public spending and thus really guarantee the autonomy of municipalities. Until that happens, we can talk about, I don't know, what autonomy. However, the fact is that the investment capacity, this is a developmental capacity, is getting worse and worse that, in fact, the resources for development are not, not on municipal infrastructure, not on education, not on housing, not on housing, so on those vital areas where the primary tasks of municipalities, both urban and other rural, as said by colleague Mikolič, or mountain areas, if you want, which should actually have a special status. Therefore, I believe that the amendments to such a law constitute an attempt to improve this temporary solution, and I personally believe that it is necessary to take into account these amendments in order to allow the extension of the debt to those areas, not only, and I do not understand why only to water, why to water-disposal infrastructure, why not to the entire municipal infrastructure, which actually has its own resources to cover these obligations in terms of perspective. For this reason, I think that, at least in my opinion, the most appropriate amendment to be supported would be our amendment, the LDS amendment, which ensures this integrity. In particular, I say how on the Local Self-Government Committee the amendment, which was later defined as the SLS amendment or all four coalition parties, has changed. Mr Marinic has arrived with one piece of this amendment, and he has met in the hallway of a Member who has attributed another piece of the amendment. Then we told him, did his colleagues tell him to keep these waste water in hand, and so there was some kind of amendment that I thought might be comprehensive so that everything he wanted could be covered in this amendment, what those individuals who therefore suggested to him would want. But you weren't willing and prepared on the local self-government committee, so I think the amendment proposed by the coalition would be a lot more appropriate to the LDS amendment. If I specifically identify myself to that amendment that I have actually proposed and is the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, which speaks of the indebtedness of municipalities during the period when they are implementing projects from European funds that are not yet covered or have no available source. So they have a decision that the funds are granted - you know, especially those mayors who work on these investments and know them in detail, that there will be a delay before these funds can be used, but for procedural reasons, because of the administrative measures that are normal, in which case you all respect them, but you have a liquidity problem. In this case, we have proposed that this liquidity be bridged by the fact that the municipalities also have, to the extent that they have the consent of the European Union or the European funds, that these funds may be temporarily committed. This was just one attempt, and it is still an attempt and I hope that you will also support this amendment, so that these confusing municipalities, which simply have no other means of liquidity, can be resolved in this way. I believe that the congregations will do this very selectively, not just because they have the opportunity, but because they have to take this opportunity. In all of this, the state could also save a different one in order to make a treasury account available. However, since this is not written anywhere, since it is not known anywhere so far, we have offered this solution temporarily. If the state or the minister of finance ever says that municipalities can thus cover these liquidity problems, this is how it is done. With this amendment, which is the fourth amendment you have under review, it could also be provided in a marriage and way that this law could be supplemented today. We hope that amendments, in fact any that improve this situation or this article, will be adopted. I suggest and submit that you accept the LDS amendment, which speaks of the integrity of the debt, and this amendment number 4. Otherwise, I have no reason not to support the other amendments, but I do not think they are complete. However, personal and LDS will also fully support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Zalokar Orazem's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Article 2 of the amendment to the Law on the Financing of the Communities refers to the extent to which municipalities may reach the extent of their indebtedness. This increases to 20% of the revenue realised, and the fact is that in fact the extent of the debt that was allowed to Slovenian municipalities was the lowest in Europe. Here restrictiveness was enormous and, of course, caused great problems that were inappropriate. What we point to in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is two. Now that it is clear and established that this legal limit has not been respected by all local communities in Slovenia, I think that it is worth all the accusations and that today's reform of the law cannot be a message that illegal conduct is allowed, that it is no problem, because it is later or somehow covered by the state, that I am covering it with a legal change, or that it covers it with certain financial means that are already found. This message, I think it's bad. Of course, there is no way in which we can communicate from the National Assembly that such a thing is possible in this country, which is considered legal and which is part of Europe. That's why it was our wish, so it was our request, and I think it was very correct, that at this point we would know where we are, that we would know what was going on, because, last but not least, 59 Slovenian municipalities were not in debt at all, so the situation between municipalities is extremely different. The congregations in charge of the legal boundaries are the municipalities that are not in any debt, and the municipalities, which according to what the colleague explained that the state required of them, were incurring illegal debts, which, of course, is the responsibility of the mayor in the individual congregation. Secondly, what we stress in the Liberal Democracy and I also think the word "delegation" is some way to help, but it is not good at all and is not the only one. Anyone who runs his household at home also knows that an assignment is a bridge way to help himself. However, it is necessary to know that all funds need to be recovered. This is a measure that may go hand in hand within a year or two, perhaps one mayor who will exploit these limits to the ceiling or to the maximum extent possible, then, of course, whoever comes after him will pay it all off and probably have the status of a bad mayor, because he will not know as much as his predecessor, who, of course, did it with the debt. Of course, that's not a solution. After 9 months, however, we are disappointed that, in fact, the ministry or in charge of this area do not come with any more comprehensive solutions that would have long-term consequences, not just patching up problems that we might patch up for a year or two, but then they will re-enter the plan in all their tragedy, which is the financing of municipalities in Slovenia. As far as the amendments to this Article are concerned, I do not see any argument at all, no one has said it in the debate before the Committee so far, why only a certain type of investment can be further indebted or why an additional commitment is possible only for certain types of investment. I'll say here, if we were to think rationally, then we'd say that there's a possible extra charge for those things that bring, when they're built, even revenue. They could be very correct and say that activities, when built, have a permanent financial source, whether it is paying for the service or anything. We're talking about plumbing because it's being paid, we're talking about municipal waste, we're talking about waste water management, and so on. But this article is a mess. We have things in there that don't bring that kind of resources. But when we proposed another activity, which is certainly also in this case and is one of the most problematic in Slovenia, that is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u143	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u144	the handling of municipal waste, but there was no understanding of it. [[...]] And some selection was made, as my colleague Petek used to say, according to our feelings, which means maybe there's a mayor who knows him, who has a problem with either water or let's give him that in there so he can have a chance. Maybe I'm not in there, but we don't care. The argument, although colleagues are now smiling there, government representatives, you have not answered me why waste is not appropriate. And why is it not appropriate to have an overall awareness of economic public services, but only some of them by choice of coalition? I think it is possible to correct this and I absolutely think that the amendments are good, especially those that allow all public infrastructure to do so. There are various problems in the congregations. In one municipality, the biggest problem is that water supply, in another environment, is the biggest problem with waste and garbage, and in the third environment, the problem is that it does not have built sewage. Colleagues, let the congregations handle their problems without saying that you can also handle them with additional responsibility for this segment, and you, who has a problem with a segment that is not in marriage, have no right to additional debt. I also appeal to you once again to consider an amendment under number 4, which would allow municipalities that already have decisions which have the funds granted - fellow mayors remind us that the investment should be properly paid in all its course, to stick to the legal deadlines, and the funds they receive from Europe are not provided within the appropriate deadlines. She's a signatory, she owes the congregation. So far, municipalities have not been poorly paid in the Slovenian space. They had a status that investors liked to make contracts with us because they knew they were going to be payers. At the moment, municipalities are becoming unpaid, insolvent, because such funds - these are investments that sometimes go beyond their budgets - there are no such funds. And, of course, it is possible to make an annual debt, I agree, that was also the answer. However, things do not always end on 31 December, sometimes they need to be carried over through the new year, and such debt cannot then be carried over. This is therefore a fully corrected amendment, which does not have any other connotations than that, even through the new year, the municipalities could also borrow bridging loans for already authorised investments from European funds. Unfortunately, this committee has also shown that it is actually very important who is proposing an amendment. If there's still such a smart amendment, if there's still such a useful amendment, then sometimes it's wrong to propose it to someone who's not from the coalition. Therefore, even the same amendment, which was proposed entirely in the same text by a colleague from Social Democracy, was rejected by the Committee with disgust and then tabled the same amendment, with the same text, but it had to be written that it was an amendment by coalition parties. That's where I appeal to some sense. We are not talking about lions or rights, we are talking about Slovenian municipalities, which are in financial troubles. And, excuse me, another modest opinion with 12-year-old county experiences. There is not a whole problem in this lack of funds from the Structural and Cohesion Funds simply because the municipalities do not have sufficient co-financing resources, nor are there projects. Small, fragmented municipalities in which we have transformed Slovenia, but we do not have an intermediate branch of authority, so we have no regions to run some regional projects, of course there are no projects. In a small congregation there is only a small project. Europe requires bigger projects, requires inter-agency cooperation in such matters, and these small municipalities are extremely competitive among themselves, so it is very difficult to talk, very difficult to sit together and prepare projects. There is also some truth, and there are some problems that Slovenia has, that there is absolutely nothing on its tail and the situation will not be any better, because in Europe we will have to with projects that will cover entire regions in the field of waste, in the area of water supply and the like, we will not be able only with small projects in that small congregation that have these problems. I would also like to point out that if we look at Slovenia and compare development ten years ago and today, I think that the Slovenian municipalities have made tremendous progress in a row, huge things have been built, huge things have changed. All municipalities have great ambitions, they want more, but this may be what we see in the first eye, which is visible in elections, when someone checks the success of individual mayors, the big stories of the national story, I'm talking about landfills of regional waste that we can barely solve, let's say water supply throughout Prekmurje or Podravje, which is a big problem, and these are big stories, where we are completely unsuccessful because of the fragmentation of Slovenian municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic has entered the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the introduction, given the state of funding in local communities, let me say to those representatives of the government, in particular those who have been in the government for a long time, to cry, not to laugh at the actual situation we have in the municipalities. Article 2(2) is also applicable. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u147	Please, only Mr. Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u148	Yes, but Mr. Rupar, given that you're jumping into words, let me just answer that. [[..]] Some have been in this government for a long time, and some have been in the previous government for longer than I am in Parliament, and that is why my appeal for seriousity has also been addressed to them. Speaking of these amendments, these four amendments to Article 2, let me say that there has already been a debate on the Committee, the home work body. I appreciate that there was a very high-quality debate in which we wanted to resolve the scope in some way rather than the scope of funding. Indeed, there was occasionally some kind of auction when we added and subtracted what this article was supposed to cover, but finally an amendment was adopted, which essentially intervened in this article and allowed housing and water supply. But I have doubts about this, especially in this systemic regulation of this Article 2. I wonder if it is even necessary to limit the level of funds to the purpose of the funds. The municipalities have specific development problems. Indeed, the majority of these problems that we face in local communities are somewhat similar and share a common root, but some are specific and why these municipalities, which have these specific problems, would not be allowed to do so, if this is already the solution to these funding problems, even to an increased extent. In other words, once again, I say that the debt is not a solution and that in the end each loan must be paid or reimbursed and that it is time to approach the systemic regulation of this area. Moreover, the situation in local communities is in fact different. Some are in debt, some are not, but this does not reflect the actual situation in order to say that in municipalities that are not in debt, they are cost-effective, they are mindful of budgetary resources and therefore do not owe the budget. It can happen that they do not have development programmes, and now that we actually have them, we will try to limit them with a view. I am convinced that amendments to Article 2 should be adopted, that each amendment proposed here is better than the basic text. However, I certainly think that the amendment that we tabled in the Social Democrats' Group of Members talking about municipal public infrastructure, where the municipal infrastructure could also be released and talked about public infrastructure, which, to the greatest extent, covers this infrastructure by which the local community is being stifled, so that this amendment actually enables what this law is intended to do. So, I will personally vote for every amendment proposed here. However, I think it is best that the other is being invested by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Bredo Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, considering I first called today. I would first like to draw attention to the ambiguity in the first amendment to Article 2 - I will read - how this text is properly read from the fifth line and what this can mean. So that in a given year it does not exceed an additional 3% realized - I was explained - unforeseen revenue. It is said that if the repayment of principals and interest in a given year does not exceed an additional 3% - this is read - 3% of the estimated revenue or realised revenue from the balance of revenue and events of the adopted budget, reductions in the amounts received and transfer revenue from the state budget for investments, and if the period of repayment, etc. Why am I stressing how this should be read? Because it can, I understand and I think that it is necessary to ask the Ministry of Finance how it understands this and therefore I regret that there is no representative of the Ministry of Finance present in this Chamber. Secondly, if they are not to say to the Law and Legal Service, our service, to see if this text is for a comma, "decreased for received donations and transfer revenue from the State budget" understands that they relate to 3%, whether it relates to expected revenues or realised revenues. Because if we are saying that 3% is reduced for the transfer revenue received from the state budget, then this means that it is practically nothing. Since 3%, say, of a billion budgets of 30 million tolars, this is reduced by 30 million for transfer revenue from the budget, which can be very large in the municipality, a large share for investments from the state budget, and more than 3% of the budget. I know it's logical to understand that these transfer revenue are reducing the base, it's 100%, which then you count 3% of them. Only this text is not so written and I ask you to order the government service or the law enforcement service to verify how this must be written in such a way as to make it clear to everyone. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Finance has not made it clear that the text of this article or this law has already meant that annuities amount to up to 5% in that basic debt permit and that annuities amount to 3% in that they amount to annuity for those additional authorised investments which are not limited. But no, at the Ministry of Finance, they understood this so that if the municipality owes 10% of its budget, it can repay annuities of up to 5% of its budget. However, if you owe 10% plus 30% for infrastructure investments and apartments, then only 3% of the anuity in total can be repaid at 3% of the budget implemented, not 5% plus 3%, but 3%. So a smaller one, they understand, was allowed annuity if you were more in debt than if you were less in debt. It's completely illogical, but that's how they explained it. While I know that every normal master goes and when he hires a loan for a capital investment, he will be long-term in debt and it is difficult to reach 3% of the budget, annuity of 3% of the budget. And for the record, let's say we pay 1 and a half percent for 18% of the debt, annuity at one and a half percent. However, when something like this is written in the law, it is necessary to be clear enough that the Ministry of Finance cannot interpret things in its own way. And here there is always the risk that these things are approved, confirmed, allowed by the Ministry of Finance, but not by the government's service for local self-government and regional development, which, thank God, is reasonable and knows how we live and operate, while in the Ministry of Finance they keep trying to be as deliberative as possible, which I fully understand and acknowledge. That's one. Secondly, I would like to say that from the beginning, and we have already tabled such an amendment to the committee; that is, that we exclude from the permitted, I will say, over-standard investments or investments that exceed the limit: the extent of the debt, the current 20%, that we dispose of municipal waste landfills because we have very clearly listed only schools, apartments after new, water supply and public infrastructure for waste water management. We don't have in here - let's say some municipalities have a very strong interest in equipping them to regulate either craft or industrial zones and thus attract the economy to their area, investors. Where a craft or industrial zone is being prepared, it shall be fully equipped with communal equipment. According to this logic, the municipality, which will equip the craft or industrial zone, will only be responsible for the construction of the water supply and for the construction of sewerage in this area. European funds can't be counted on when equipping an industrial or craftsmanship zone, so when it comes to increasing, say, the deposit, if it works with other municipalities in the region, or when it generates electricity, or when it sets up a telephone, etc. For this zone, when it builds roads in this industrial zone, it will not be able to get credit for this, but only for water and sewerage. Thus, the term "communal infrastructure" is the one that covers completely all the municipal infrastructure that an area needs, all municipal, local in this sense, the municipal infrastructure that an area needs in order for it to function fully. Thus, I think that if we have already added to the permission for over 20% of the debt of basic education, which does not in any way return money, while the equipment of the trade zone, the zone industry or even the construction of the municipal infrastructure turns money, as is the return of housing and the payment of annuity, is paid in the context of the payment of services or, say, the municipal contribution paid by companies that will move into the new industrial zone and so on. It makes no sense to me that we are limited to just two segments, otherwise very important, I agree, but only two segments of the municipal infrastructure. Especially roads are a problem here. We know that roads cost a lot, and when water and sewers are built - at least these two - the road has to be built anyway, because it's a simultaneous investment, because then you've got the road dug up and you're laying it all down at the same time. What's the point, or we'll do the road later, I don't know, so these investors won't even be able to come with the trucks and build this. So I think that this paragraph, which speaks - or this other amendment makes sense, complements the amendment proposed by the parliamentary groups of the government coalition. Here in this amendment under the number 3 of the LDS Club, the problem is that there are no roads in it again. I just can't see the solution to allow the municipalities - when only building the road works, the municipality won't be able to rent any credit because of other investments, maybe over 20% will be in debt. I think it would be good if we thought about how we might try to make out of these two amendments, or with some supplement - I think that this is yet to be done in a business way - to just add to the amendment of the government coalition's parliamentary groups, instead of dealing with waste water, investment in water, to include only municipal public infrastructure or municipal public infrastructure, or whatever, that they will not be exactly the words used by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. However, I think it is in the interest of all the congregations to consider that all municipal infrastructure is important for the municipalities and that this is a way for them to build it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much. With regard to the question of Mrs Pecanova, why there is no representative of the Ministry of Finance, I am obliged to explain quickly, which is evident from the material. In fact, the government of such a representative has no authority. On other issues, however, we have a minister here with his co-workers, who would also give him the floor if no one else were to report to the debate on Article 2. Mr. Squeakle? Then, Mr Minister, I propose that I give you my word at the end of the debate so that you can get it all together. Mr. Squeakle, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u152	As we are discussing amendments, I will present with this amendment what I think is a key substantive problem of this law. First of all, I regret that we are discussing this law without adequate information. This clearly shows that the Members who voted against you, 43 of you, were not in favour of us being informed in the National Assembly when - of course I am talking about Article 2 - in Article 2 of the Law we increase the possibility of borrowing municipalities. A year and a half ago, I worked as a financier, and of course this last banker won't grant you an increase without knowing your condition. Therefore, I regret that we have a debate on Article 2 first in the absence of those who, in my humble opinion, should be here, and I regret that the Government has not also authorized the representative of the Ministry of Finance to discuss with us here today. We had some of these representatives, or we had one of these representatives on an interested working body. In this regard, please also allow me to comment that according to its content, in particular Article 2, paragraph 1 can be very problematic. Why? It is problematic because it has been proposed by the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development. The Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which is responsible under the new government regime - pardon, government service for local self-government and regional development - which is responsible for the community funding system after the new government regime. First of all, I must say that there are several laws, including the Public Finance Act, which gives this power to the Minister of Finance and should be a government representative here today because of the application of the Public Finance Act. At the same time, I wonder whether all that is proposed in Article 2 and also in relation to what is stated in the final text of the law in Article 1 is so clearly that we can have clear control over the indebtedness of municipalities in Slovenian municipalities. If you read in detail the texts of the articles that we are amending in the original law, it is stated in Article 16 of the Law, then of course Article 16 of the Law and Article 17 is very clear. And he says, of course, that the congregations are in debt and that then there is a system of so-called consenting and then he goes on to say that any other matter, such as borrowing, is out of the question. Article 2 increases the scope of the debt and, at the same time, in conjunction with Article 2(1), gives the opportunity to replace existing debt with a new, more favourable debt if the municipality finds that the principals are inconvenient. This could also mean that the municipality has taken credit for, for example, 3 years, has one year to pay off this loan, next year are local elections and the municipality is, of course, having difficulty drawing up a 2006 budget. The new Article 1 in conjunction with Article 2 simply means that the municipality can change the terms of the debt by modifying the credit which it should otherwise repay in the following year and which significantly affects the restriction on the possibility of fulfilling the political electoral budget programme, or whatever you want in an individual municipality, this municipality simply by means of a change that allows it first in conjunction with the second article, actually spoils, as we say, for several years. That is why I say, even in the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, that this law on the financing of municipalities is a law that solves indeed some pressing problems, but does not ensure that in Slovenian public finances we would have full control over the financing of municipalities. I am not surprised because the previous law on the financing of municipalities prepared by the Ministry of Finance was based on some elements that enabled, if not another, some final supervision. I am also not surprised that the Minister of Finance has then allowed the government to move forward with such a law, but, remember, he added an important paragraph to Article 1 so that he can limit the indebtedness of the municipalities if this would potentially jeopardise the fulfilment of the convergence programme and so on. We all know, on the home labour body, this provision, which gave the Minister of Finance another possibility, as it is called, was removed from the law. So the situation we are in now is that we have a 2nd Article, which, in conjunction with Article 1, actually allows uncontrolled indebtedness of the municipalities. The means, or if you want the scope of the debt listed here, are not ceilinged. It is not limited to the extent that, of course, there are exceptions in the second paragraph of Article 2 in order for anyone in the Republic of Slovenia to know what the state of indebtedness of the municipalities will be, say, in 2006, or in particular, when we will be in the period of the next financial perspective in the period 2007-2013, for which the municipalities can be indebted. Therefore, on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, where we discussed this as an interested working body, we said that we are discussing this mainly because, on 22 February 2005, this National Assembly, having considered the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003, said that the Government should prepare a comprehensive change in the funding of municipalities or, if you would like, if we would also accept a change of constitution, including the financing of landscapes. Why is that important? This is important because in this law we give municipalities the possibility of additional debt, including for the purpose of drawing on European funds [[about this something hereafter]] but we don't give the municipalities any additional resources. And that is why in 2006 we will have a double appearance in front of local elections in Slovenian municipalities: first, under the terms "legalised", also according to the Court of Auditors, "illegal debt". Mr President of the home working body, Pavel Rupar, took up a trade credit for the construction of the school. According to existing legislation, this is illegal and, of course, has been given a negative opinion. Then it was requested that, on the basis of a negative opinion, he provide an explanation in which he then explained why he did so. And the Court of Auditors found out what it found. This will now be possible under this law, because this commodity credit will simply go into this quota of the new Article 2 or the new Article, with the second Article 17, supplemented. If we move on. Licing Credits [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] That's all Article 2, that's all Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u153	Please, just speak, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Leasing loans, financial leasings and business leasings. It was clear that, if you look at their reports, in recent years or in recent years, the Court of Auditors has identified many problems in individual Slovenian municipalities, so there has been a diction that includes all of this. However, if you now read paragraphs 1 and 2 of this law together and because you can change the conditions of existing leases, commercial or financial leases, you have a situation where no one in the Republic of Slovenia can know how much more the indebtedness of Slovenian municipalities will increase in 2006. Why am I saying this? When we gained independence, we had a year or two of the uncontrolled indebtedness of Slovenian municipalities. The Slovenian municipalities even issued bonds. If you remember, some Slovenian congregations came into a serious financial crisis. That is why, of course, the first law was introduced and then the second law on the financing of municipalities, which, like the Slovenian state budget, together with the pension and health treasury, incorporated the whole set of Slovenian public finances. Now, however, this law on the financing of municipalities makes it possible for municipalities to be indebted, but we do not provide them with additional resources. And we will have a situation in which, in the coming years, there will be an irresistible indebtedness of Slovenian municipalities in 2006 just before the local elections, and then in 2007, 2008 and so on. Of course, I expect that the Local Self-Government and Regional Development Service, as it has announced before the local elections, will propose a comprehensive law on the financing of municipalities, where comprehensive solutions will be presented to ensure the financial stability of Slovenian municipalities, which will probably talk about some other relationship of resources, tax resources and their distribution between the state budget and the Slovenian municipalities - there will probably be other changes - but not yet. This is not the case for now, but by this Act, Article 2, the amendments to Article 2 only allow for increased indebtedness. And, of course, it also links with European funds. The main intention of the public financiers in the Slovenian area to this law was to try to create a space for co-financing of European programmes between the expenditure of the individual budget. It was a basic intention. And that is, of course, the main story, why I suppose, is that the government has still not aligned itself with the 2006 budget and why it suffers with the coordination of the 2007 budget. Because we need to create space! Because if we want to get those 80 plus billions of resources from the EU and co-finance them, you need to reduce some of the expenditure in terms of resources in order to draw on European funds. Of course, the law gives the congregations another option. That can be a solution. Of course, I have no doubt that this solution will not be adopted. All I have to do is point out, as President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance, that this is certainly not in the spirit of what the good master is doing. Because saying that municipalities will co-finance Europe's programmes to a greater extent, so that they will be in charge of them, but those programmes that do not necessarily involve "some return on cash flow" may not necessarily be a problem. Now, luckily, most of the projects are in some way state projects. For example, these are different - I don't know, Minister Visiak, I hear that these will be some projects of tourism infrastructure, which means that there is a relationship between the state and an economic society. Of course, as long as there is a change in this and there will be some "municipal projects", for which municipalities will not create space between the revenues of their budget, but will be in charge of this, the question is once again what will be the extent to which the municipalities will be indebted at the end of 2006 at the end of 2007. And I'm just saying, we're going to be in the National Assembly today - I have no doubt that, because you've already confirmed or confirmed this by voting 43 against at 2.25 p.m. - we will no doubt confirm it. And we're going to open the door, in narration, "the extent of the debt" for which no one in this hall knows, not even in Slovenian public opinion, given how much the law of the inscription is, how much it will amount to. And I understand, again, the Minister of Finance, that he forced this dictatorship into a government meeting - or whoever forced it. And, of course, I also understand the mayors in this House that they wanted to exclude this dictatorship from Article 1 and that this dictatorship fell under Article 1. Mayors and mayors, I'm sorry. I didn't use both sexes. Now, with a different diction of Article 1, because the Lord has disturbed me, that, of course, has saved me. But now there's no diction. There is no diction that would limit this level of indebtedness in any way in Article 1 or Article 2, but we do not really know what the scope of the debt will be. And to decide. Two decisions were adopted by the Commission for the National Assembly at that meeting. You have already voted against the first one, so there is no point in repeating it, because obviously there is no desire in the ruling coalition to deal transparently with these matters. On the other hand, you still have the option of at least a possible parent working body, to realize it. The second conclusion was that, following the adoption of this law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was to provide the competent working bodies with information on the indebtedness of municipalities for 2005 on the basis of the adopted law. Of course, if the law is adopted, it will also make it very clear that the municipalities have to report this because the commercial and financial credits are so clearly defined. And I will be happy to ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 2 January where this report is. Since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has a duty to inform the National Assembly of the situation in, if you want, Slovenian public finances - in this case in the area of the construction of municipalities - but not that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says that the situation is necessary, that this law should be adopted in a reduced procedure, if I am not mistaken, and then does not provide to the National Assembly or to those data for which, by chance, representatives of the ruling coalition on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances have decided that it would be good to obtain this information in order to take informed decisions here today. Today we will make a decision to increase the indebtedness of municipalities to 20%, the average indebtedness of Slovene municipalities is between 12% and 13%, 59 are not in charge and we have a congregation that is heavily indebted. The client structure of these mayors or coalitions would be interesting, but the government did not want to mediate this information to the National Assembly and you were on the side of the ruling coalition when you did not accept this proposal. This indicates the lack of a desire for transparent consideration in the National Assembly of such an important issue as the increase in funding for Slovenian municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you very much. During this time, Minister Žagar has spoken several times, so I give you my word and then I continue to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. However, I would have explained some things sooner at the end of the debate, because otherwise, with so many comments, we will have to let one go. Now the first thing is about the part which has been amended in fact on the Committee, on the proposal of a member of the opposition who has now been challenged by the Member of Parliament, by the fact that it has also been accepted that these things will be resolved through the adoption of the ZIPR, is true of the budget. And yet we have already heard from the opposition parties today that such a solution is in some way supported. Now another thing is, of course, about the same law itself, or changes to the law on the financing of the congregations. We have already explained several times that it is not the intention of this law to solve the problems of funding the municipalities, that the government is, of course, in a liquid state that has accumulated over all these years - when, in fact, in this area, nothing has been done in a positive direction, but rather in a negative direction, and much of what you have mentioned has already been possible to do in the past period, but it is not - - the government has taken this problem seriously and is, of course, solving the problem of funding the municipalities in several ways. Providing additional resources also by raising the appropriate spending by 10 per cent, where the case is already part of the budget's rebalancing this year. Some legal solutions are also being prepared to relieve the expenditure side of the budgets of individual municipalities and, of course, all municipalities will be present in this package. However, the purpose of this law is, of course, to accelerate the implementation of certain projects for which municipalities do not have the opportunity at the moment and, of course, as regards the overall resolution of projects, as of course, even in the economy, projects are often completed, or in most cases, by the extent of lending. And it is clear exactly what individual institutions are responsible for. The second part of the story that we are listening to today is, of course, that it is trying to explain that it is trying to legalise illegal debt. I'm sorry, I don't know this illegal indebtedness of the municipalities, not according to the unofficial data of the Ministry of Finance. Of course, I think the Member who spoke about this also has them. In fact, the previous law had already allowed for exceptions. Of course, in the mass it was possible to assign 10% to each municipality for individual projects, and all of these obligations, which were, of course, also with the consent of the Ministry of Finance and, last but not least, the Ministry of Finance will still have the last word at the time of the debt. And some of the thinking that speaks of illegality and is looking for all the possible forms of illegality that could follow from this law is actually completely foreign to me. I don't really know how to think like that. And of course, I don't quite understand this law as a generator of some illegal business, but on the contrary. However, the fact that we are also regulating certain things in this law, which have not been settled in the past, and could be settled in the final stage, has in fact been possible to propose these things in the past. In this regard, they can also take this law in a positive direction. Of course, some specific questions have arisen regarding this law, why some exceptions do, some do not. There has been an increase in the level of indebtedness, according to that common mass, so that some projects are possible - or at least most of the projects should be designed to cover financial structures from this work. As regards, of course, the exceptions to these last extensions, which were also made on the home committee, means that we have only added two more to the existing exceptions, which were in the existing law. And these, in the area of school construction, where there are problems in particular, can, in smaller municipalities or on the size and extent of investments and, of course, such a volume of investment would be beyond the capacity of these smaller municipalities even if they had committed themselves to this work. But these are long-term investments. Finally, the law also limits the scope of the debt, in particular the proposed amendment. The second part is linked to the use of European funds. With regard to the use of European funds programmes, it must be made very clear that all these programmes have also been written after content in the past period, in last year or before last year, when a single programming document was adopted, and, of course, there is still relatively little room for manoeuvre in this area, unfortunately because some infrastructure projects, which we are also talking about here many times, for example, have been mentioned, have also been financed from this area, and unfortunately they are not in a single programming document. That can't be done, of course. It is true, however, that the municipalities in those projects - here, in fact, the zones - are thought to be a major problem, and I have been warned many times about this, a major difficulty in completing this financial structure from this very title. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law in this part. I strongly reject that we will generate this law, or not only that we will generate it, but that this law will completely break or prevent Slovenia from entering the monetary union. I mean, this is already a slightly absurd situation, or in some way a ridiculous statement, if we know that according to the data that is available and I think have also been made public, the debt of the municipalities represents not only the total mass of public debt, but less than 1% and even within this obligation are guarantees that have been given for housing, for example. And then it is virtually impossible to explain these things if we know that the ratios of debt are completely different compared to European countries. And even in the new Law on the Financing of the Congregations, which we have already mentioned many times, we are preparing a system law, which cannot be done overnight. Some solutions, however, are essential to the completion of the process in the financial rehabilitation of the municipalities, and will also have to, in relation to, say, the public debt, of course, determine how much of the debt is, of course, to go to local self-government and how much part of it should remain at the state level. Last but not least, the Minister of Finance still agrees on every assignment. So the review contained in this title is completely clear, clear and there are some issues that cannot be raised here. However, if the infringements are, if they have already been violations, if they are known, then they would need to be properly sanctioned by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Rupar, do you have a replica? Yes or no? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u158	Yeah, of course. I'm replicating my colleague's violin. I highly doubt that he was wrong about his speech. I'd say he was knowingly lying. Already in the very part of today's procedural requirements, we have been able to determine whether he does not know the rules of procedure or whether he deliberately misleads Parliament and the public. The Committee on Local Self-Government did not reach a conclusion on a proposal for a decision that was reportedly voted by the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance. If Mr Cwickl does not know the 45th Rule of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of what the mother body is, what his committee is and what has the right to vote and receive from this title, I cannot help but appreciate this for a deliberate error or for the complete ignorance of someone who has even dealt with state finances in his history. Where's the lie? Mr. Squeakle, a terrible lie on Paul Rupar's account was that he was in charge of the merchandise. Paul Rupar has never in his life entrusted himself with a commodity, never. If you had the intention or in mind of the municipality of Tržič, let me tell you that this trade commission was based on an order from the then Minister of Education, who ordered the municipalities to build new schools or schools that would meet the conditions for a nine-year-old. This was not before the elections or during these elections, but a year later, of course, which means that the obligations assumed by other companies in this account cannot be taken into account or said that this, apart from the obligation and the legal provision, is anything else. And where else do you lie? The Court of Auditors did not issue a negative opinion to the Municipality of Tržič on account of the commercial debt. I quote: "We have found that the investment operators were responsible for the payment of the outstanding and outstanding obligations of the municipalities. With the loans hired, the investors paid their dues... and so on, "the municipality has transferred obligations to the contractors and paid them only in the following financial year." Attention: "We have not assessed the administration of the municipality as a mistake in showing the responsibility of the municipality for 2003, but we point out that it has an impact on the presentation of the expenditure of the budget in the coming years." So, my dear fellow, I know you've absorbed a lot of intelligence, that's a fact, but all [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u159	Time's up. You only have three minutes for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u160	No, I have time together.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u161	No, you only have three minutes for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u162	Then count me down for three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u163	Please, if you stop, you only have three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u164	I'm just finishing my thought. But you're not all of them. And definitely the Court of Auditors has not found an irregular debt and has definitely not given a negative opinion on the audit report as a result. A negative opinion came about and became just because of one thing, and it was [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u165	I ask you to stop because we respect what the President of this House is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u166	error of the Court of Auditors. [[...]] Okay, Mr. President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, there's no replica on the replica. You can participate in the debate if you respond to the debate, it will be your turn. Mr. Mikolitch, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you very much. In fact, I have no reason to regret it, as some do, because we did not receive information about the congregation’s indebtedness. I do not know how many times it has been said today, including by the Minister, that the convergence programme is not at risk. Perhaps I am a little more concerned because half of Slovenian municipalities have no credit and may actually hold that not even suitable projects for the implementation or realisation of certain investments. And there may be a bigger question than a fellow Member of the Squeakle explains about this additional indebtedness of the municipalities, what this will mean for those who are already, under the terms, "too indebted". If I go specifically to the amendment to Article 2, I think that this second paragraph is clearly written here and certainly Mrs Pečanova, as she said we are probably interpreting it the same. But if someone really explained it differently, then I don't understand it either. But this certainly means in this context that this is an additional 3%, and I have to say here that it seems very important to me in this amendment, that in fact the length or time period of repayment of credit is also defined. With regard to the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, or so on, these public utilities or public infrastructures have already been mentioned, I believe that this is just too broad a concept. Of course, all those investments, which also have a source for repaying the loan, are highly justified, and that is why we have included on the committee the housing problem or housing infrastructure, because I am also surprised that this was not the case in the first phase. All that is somehow going beyond this context, especially what has been mentioned, the roads, I think, or I firmly believe that these investments, which the local communities would like to take with regard to credits, but I am afraid that, above all, those not yet developed or, I would say, the more demographically threatened areas are still a number of roads missing, and perhaps even building what would be irrational. With regard to the fourth amendment of the LDS Club, I would just like to mention that it would not have happened when such an amendment was adopted, as has happened in the past - is the case of Gruškovje. You know, even though you have a decision, or even in the future, the municipalities will be given a co-financing decision by, if I'm talking about the cohesion structural fund now, eventually something can happen. And then if there were to be twice here - or an increased quota for credits, that would really mean a lot of trouble for certain local communities. And to conclude, the law itself, all changes are in place, are good, and in this transitional period they mean a great deal to local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Master Strabe, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u171	Mr. Stab, you have the floor. I'm sorry, I can't give you a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u172	A few words about the amendments themselves or about this part of the law. Although I do not know why some colleagues are working out of this because the law mentions the intention to finance the debt when it remains at least 90% of the budget for what is not stated as a priority and is supposed to be financed from the money of credit. Secondly, I still consider this law a transitional law, a correction to that real law that I believe should follow European practice. That is to say, that they finance or co-finance or allow for specific purposes and that even if the municipality is credit-worthy and trustworthy of the creditor, that restrictions are not implemented, or that only this may be conditioned - although I am against all essential conditionalities and would leave responsibility and decision to the municipalities and their municipal councils - that municipalities may be in charge of those types of projects that concern several municipalities, for systemic projects, for systemic investments. In Slovenia, the problem is that there is absolutely no real motivation for municipalities to participate in medo-chin projects, major projects. Here is the task of the Minister himself and the government to somehow achieve and adopt European standards in appropriate spending and in financing the municipalities. So you get a subsidy when the investment is completed; you are entitled to subsidies or co-financing if you are financing a project that deals with more municipalities and solves a broader problem. In this way it would not be a problem to have more or smaller municipalities in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Veršnik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! After the demagogic and misleading performance by the distinguished President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance, Minister Jagar completely reassured me. I don't know what the problem is and why we're dealing with a problem when the government wants to prepare some of the measures that will help in the operations of the congregations. It has been clear from the outset also on our committee that this is not a systemic proposal, that the government is still producing a system proposal and that it will be sent to us for consideration. I also see no reason why, in fact, we are saying that it is not good to arrange for municipalities to be indebted and to allow municipalities to exchange bad loans with better ones, that it will not happen that they are still paying today when we know what the credit situation is - Oderubski interest. I don't think we can argue with that. We have already heard that the leases and leasing credits have been leased, but it is clear that from this law we further know that the lease credits as well as the commodity credits are simple credits and go into that quota and go into those procedures and here I see no particular problem. That this bill is intended to better draw on European funds is perfectly fine and right, but we know, as well as the honourable President of the Commission, that the project, the European project, must first be fully funded and then we can draw on these funds. And it is clear that there is no congregation that can finance all of this in advance if it has a project without being in charge. Let me conclude that the amendment to the law on amendments and amendments to the law on the financing of municipalities and the whole law goes and is a real step in the right direction, so I am convinced that it must be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u176	The replica, because, of course, I suppose there is no other chairman of the budgetary and other public finances committee in this room, so I was mentioned. I'd like to replicate essentially what was said to be a demagogue delusion. No, I just said things like marriage, situations like the Court of Auditors reports. The Court of Auditors notes that when a municipality establishes a payment a year later, but not in a year of the budget, or when a municipality in another case actually makes a similar and commits an obligation, it first asks the supplier to do so, which gives it some kind or, "invoke", a credit card or says that it will be paid when it does, it is simply not part of the expenditure that should be included in the budget. [[...]] And then the ordinary Court of Auditors gives a negative opinion. Therefore, it is, of course, true that Article 2 of the Law states that leases, trade credits and any other form of contractual relationship that constitutes an actual debt and which result in the repayment of liabilities from the municipal budget are included in the scope of the debt. It is simply that investments will be made in individual municipalities on the basis of what the law will allow. Investments will be made, they'll see each other, but they won't see each other's debts. This is a situation that the Court of Auditors has repeatedly used as a basis for expressing a negative opinion. You can look at this on the website and, of course, here is a short answer only to your fellow Member, Rupar. I didn't cheat, maybe you didn't just say it. Which is why, of course, I object to what my colleague Veršnik said, that I was demagogically misleading. I'm the one who only referred to the facts. I apologize if the facts are not pleasant, the facts are not pleasant and because they are not pleasant, two hours ago you did not wish them to come to the National Assembly. Well, if, you know, everything would be normal in the municipalities you manage, in a way, the situation would be good, then we would agree that we are also dealing with the law on increasing the indebtedness of municipalities. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u177	You're running out of time for a replica, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u178	So, Mr. Veršnik, I didn't demagogue. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u179	Here you go, please, as a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u180	I will only say this: we can interpret the law in one way or another, or we accept it maliciously or kindly; and your interpretation, Mr President-in-Office of the Commission, was malicious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you to remain in your debate, because this way of debate does not lead us anywhere. I know the controversy can be quite lively, but let's keep it from being personal, please, because otherwise we won't come forward and you're putting us in a difficult situation. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. She's not here. Mr. Squeakle volunteered for the debate in order. Please. You're giving up. Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, it's your turn to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I knew I wouldn't wait long. First, of course, Mr President-in-Office would have warned that just before that Mr Swickl had applied to the replica to his colleague Veršnik, but he spoke about me and abused the Rules of Procedure in its entirety. And when he abused him, he did not speak the truth again, and by his custom, he leaves the scene again when the matter is provoked because he is simply afraid of the truth. Yeah, that's what Squeakle is, you've found it wonderful, thank you, ma'am. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u183	Mr Rupar, please, you have signed up for the debate and please continue your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u184	Yeah, but there's still a few things that need to be explained. I'm still saying he's lying. Open the website of the Court of Auditors www.rs-rs.si and read on page 9!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u185	Mr. Rupar, may I remind you of something?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u186	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u187	You have referred to the debate on Article 2 which we are discussing. Please stick to the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u188	It is with pleasure, Mr President, but with these you have warned a little too late. When there was a debate about a Paul Rupar, you didn't take the floor with Mr. Brickle. And now the explanations are automatic, and they must be, because of the truth. It's not about -- personally, I don't give a damn about the whole thing, and LDS is even less. But for my own sake, I have to explain these things. Allow me just one more sentence; I hope I don't abuse too much, but I know a little. [[A laugh in the hall.]] On page 9 of the report - this is the truth, I am telling the truth because I am a member of the National Assembly - on page 9 you have exactly written "the position of the congregation we have not assessed as a mistake". And, Mr Squeakl - I am glad that you have hoped to return - do not deceive and lie that this is a consequence of a negative opinion. The negative opinion was obtained by the Municipality of Tržič due to some error of the Court of Auditors, which is described in the post-revision report. That's right. I hope I do not challenge him again, because then I will not be able to have the replica and the lies that Mr Squeakl is already preparing, I will not be able to replicate. Now, to the amendments, to return to the specific matters provided for in the Rules of Procedure. See, in this series of amendments, we can extend the responsibility of the municipalities to no more areas and segments, which I would in principle agree with. But then, in the same breath, the promoters of these extensions cannot challenge or report to the government that they are forcing the congregations into additional duties, that the congregations are indebted, that they will not know how to be accredited, and so on, in the second breath, look, you are expanding these areas. What my colleague said, I don't know which one, at the beginning of the debate, that our Member Pojbič was supplementing his proposal for an amendment at the committee meeting, of course, is true. At least I hope that this committee is slightly more open than any other committee has added to the possibility that a debate may develop - of course in the framework of the Rules of Procedure, so that we can understand each other. And we were also then looking for the possibility that this matter would expand to the full and for the benefit of those congregations that we had seen before so that they could fall into this amendment, which was adopted, but only to some extent. To go beyond that, however, there is a serious fear that, of course, the congregation would not actually be released from the exercise in finance and that it would be indebted to some excessively reasonable financial flows or sum, since, of course, it would be possible to jeopardize any other plan of that country. And in the end. We are talking about 5 billion and how many times today I have heard that, given that the government will accept the criterion itself and that the Minister will be able to work with the finance or co-decision on the extent to which the municipalities can go and where they can go, so that these criteria can be adopted later. I firmly deny and trust both this government and individual ministries that these differences, which you are already reading in advance, will not do, which of course means that they would have, excuse me, stupid government representatives if they would have allowed it. In the past it was, it was the truth, but at least I hope that we have done so much in development in Slovenia that there is no such fear. Why? I come from a congregation that has been the victim of such decisions in the past. Compared to others, where both state investment and the possibility of additional funds were virtually endless, this difference was, you know, one to 100. That's the truth. I want to, and I'm sure this government won't do it because it's doing the damage. Why is he doing any damage? Yes, anyone and whenever will be able to tell her that she is inequitable, that she is biased, that she is politically strained and defined and, of course, that means for this government and for these ministries or ministers who would do this, suicide or harakiri or whatever the Japanese have, something like that. What the previous government did, precisely because of this, were the main findings. And I'm sure, and I could also say: I know there are guarantees that this fear can come out of an even more different thinking head. Most of these amendments, as many as there are, are partly to be taken into account, but not all of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, would you like a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u190	I gave up the debate, but I have to replicate it because my fellow Member, Mr Rupar, also the mayor of the municipality of Tržič, speaks out of place. I quote: "Court of Auditors. In reviewing the regularity of business in 2004, the Court of Auditors found that the Municipality of Tržič acted in significant non-compliance with the rules in 2003 and therefore gave a negative opinion. The municipality did not comply with the rules in the following cases...’, and then 25 cases are listed. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'll add two. It has not taken appropriate measures to balance the budget, but has provided for the payment of investment expenditure of 348 million dollars within the longer term than it has been prescribed. Under the Public Finance Act, the mayor did not limit spending to pay the bills, but transferred the liabilities further. That's a negative opinion. And another interesting one. It has assumed 48 million commitments for the reconstruction of the Kovor primary school facility without the purpose being foreseen in the budget - it is said, past the budget, beyond the mandate of the municipal council - and part of the award process has been avoided by dividing the contract into a public tender. Two out of the 25 infringements, which are enclaved infringements not only of public procurement legislation but of the basic principle that the mayor must introduce as a good master to limit himself to a given asset. And, Mr Rupar, the problem of this law is that now that you have a total of 396 million, which is almost 400 million, I have talked about before 400 million, will become an integral part of the responsibility of the congregation, which will receive the legal coverage. I don't have a problem with that because it's better to see it as if you can't see it. The problem lies with your citizens and citizens who do not know that your municipal budget has been so highly indebted to the Court of Auditors. And 400 million in two billion, and yet some of your budget is a high level of funding. Well, that is why I refer to Mr Rupar as he is misleading the Slovenian National Assembly and the Slovenian public. Unfortunately, the Court of Auditors justifiably issued a negative opinion because you spent more than 400 million on it without having the authority to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. I give the floor to Mr. Government Representative. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Look, I think that these statements by the distinguished President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances are very double. In fact, the law in Article 17 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities explicitly states that the extent of the debt is to be considered as commercial loans, leasings and any other contractual financial obligation of the municipalities. Now I don't really understand what the problem is anymore. Whether the problem is that once the State actually incorporates any possibility of borrowing and describes that, of course, any takeover of a municipality which has financial implications in the next budget period is the subject of an indemnity, or whether the problem is that, even in return, those obligations which have not been resolved by the State by appropriate legal conduct have been resolved by law or by the Ministry of Finance with its instructions, etc. in previous mandates? But the concern for the future is probably completely over; now the mayor will have to make every financial obligation of the municipality to the municipal council. The municipal council is, of course, working at its public meetings and here saying that in a pre-election year, the municipalities and mayors will try to further indemnify the congregations on the basis of this legal dictatorship, it is nicely declassified. In the electoral year, when the mayors are exposed in one way or another, they will go before the electorate in order to entrust the municipality for the next term! I don't think that's gonna count. These solutions in the law will enable the municipalities, in particular in the development sense, to be in a position to be in charge at a time when, from a development perspective, as well as to obtain additional investment from the State budget as well as from European structural resources, they are welcome to each local community. This is the basic purpose of this legislative proposal and, above all, it will be necessary to seek solutions in the future programming period 2007-2013, so that as far as possible the majority of infrastructure projects are likely to be involved in the so-called European story if we are to be successful. Now maybe just one more explanation. Control of the debt - it's gone. That's absolutely not true! For the first time in the municipal council, supervision of the debt is secondly at the Ministry of Finance and Thirdly, with the amendment of SDS, New Slovenia, SLS and DeSUS's parliamentary groups, also in the so-called life-cycle of each investment. At least three times the amount of the debt, in the case of exceptions, which must continue to be in the 5% quota of the annual principal and interest repayment and, of course, for an additional amount of 3%. Now, perhaps a final explanation of the Court’s comments. The new law and the supplementation of the legal text take full account of all recommendations made by the Court of Auditors, which so far had problems in auditing municipalities according to existing legislation. It solves the problem of what is the extent of the debt, solves the problem of what are the fixed costs that the municipality defines and which have also been defined by the Local Self-Government Act, as well as what the procedure to be worked out by a sub-law should also be for the supervisory function of the supervisory committee of the municipality. So much for a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I support the amendment to Article 2, which I think should be said immediately. In any case, I applied to this debate because I think I might not be able to sleep well. When I listened to the debates of respectable Mrs Zalockareva, Mr Cvikl and Mr Kontic, I simply couldn't believe whether it was an enlightenment or a complete oblivion or a complete amnesia of everything that has happened in the area of local self-government in the past period. Look, gentlemen, you've come from those parliamentary groups that you've been forming the government and that you've been building local self-government, at least for the last four years without any significant improvements to the financial situation of local communities. I hope to say this for at least the last four years of the rule of the previous government. More. During this time, a number of laws were adopted in which the government has effectively violated the principle of co-financing - and you simply forget that. You're forgetting, or, I'll say, it's a pleasure that you must have realized that. Your discussions went this way. How else can we explain the fact that, according to the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, there are as many as 160, 165 congregations that are incapable of self-financing and are exceptions. This points to your attitude towards local self-government, which, last but not least, has been reflected in the fact that you did not agree to the appointment of a special committee for local self-government in this national assembly, much more so. Such was the attitude towards local self-government, ladies and gentlemen. And now that this government has taken two steps before one year - I consider this law another important step towards improving the financial situation of the municipalities - everything is wrong. It's all wrong! The first step towards improving the financial situation of the municipalities was the budget rebalancing, when for the first time in the last five years we have adjusted the financial balance more significantly. The second most important step is this. I believe that the budget forecasts for 2006 and 2007, where there is a promise or indication of an improved, inadequately better financial position for the municipalities, are also painful. Look, I said I'd drop by because I have to remind you that something happened to you. You're young, vital people, I don't believe you've completely forgotten, and because I don't believe you've completely forgotten what the real situation is, I can't conclude otherwise than that you're deceiving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. I am very glad that I am next directly to my fellow Sušnik, who discussed it. And I agree with a lot of things, really with a lot of things that he said, but it wasn't the obstinacy that we wanted today when we considered this amendment of the law to place on the bad side of these solutions that are here. True, much of what you have said is true, but it has nothing to do with you talking about the financial situation of the congregations, which is bad, and I have been talking about some of the congregation’s rules of play and law being adhered to, but some have not. You have not said anything about this and I still feel that such a situation is tolerated by the existing coalition, but I think that among those who have violated the rules of the game or legislation, the mayors or municipalities are such and different colors. I am talking about a general phenomenon that is not good, and I am talking about that tolerance of illegal conduct can also bring about in this law - and nowhere does it say that this will not happen, because there are still no adequate guardians of this law. I think most congregations acted legally. I mentioned earlier that after what I saw, there were 40 of them in debt more than allowed by law, which means that 150 were fine. And I'm in favor of these 150 congregations. In recent years, those 150 municipalities have been making a real tour when they submitted to the Ministry of Finance after agreeing on a specific assignment or investment. Months and months have passed, and I also believe that some have given up, but there is no excuse for illegal conduct. There is no excuse for illegal conduct! And here I see mainly in the tone of the debates that we have here today. And also in certain matters that this law brings, where this will somehow try to cover and forget. What I would like to stress is, however, what is hidden in the law is the question of how more than 5 billion assets are shared. I have also made this point in the opinion of the Group of Members. These are commendable funds. We are happy in the municipalities for development projects, but I believe in the good intentions of Minister Žagar. I know that this is an honorable man and everything is fine, but so we can always argue that we are all like this, but the rules of the game are not. These funds will be shared according to the criteria and for purposes to be determined by a later regulation which will only be drawn up. I don't like it either, but if there's so much trust in the government among anyone, I don't like that these things don't happen transparently, that criteria, criteria, purposes and similar things are not accepted in the National Assembly, because it's about [[....]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] It's very difficult to discuss. It is 5 billion funds, which are high funds, and I stress once again: I do not know if any other ministers have a mandate of 5 billion, or if this is an item that will be one of the greatest and will be given in full time and in full realization to only one person who will have the resources. I don't think that's a good thing, but if Mr. Jagar is still so correct, so honest or whatever, it always raises concerns. If the rules of the game are clear, if all the congregations know them in advance, I know they will, the rules will be written, but I think it is right that we speak about them also in the national assembly. In this way, it seems to me that we avoid such transparency and move away from it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Rupar Pavel applied for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna break the rules a little bit. I'll say it in advance, because if Mr. Squeakl permits him without a prognosis, at least I'll be corrected. But I'm responding to his findings and his lies.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u199	I ask you kindly, as President, I cannot allow you to break the rules of procedure, so please be patient and discuss what we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u200	Just two explanations. So, both of the items mentioned by Comrade Squeakl as a warning are related to primary school. I know that LDS is also in Tržič - it doesn't matter for children and they'd let the students be in the barn, but the mayor and the coalition wouldn't allow it, so maybe she went to the grocery store here. Nor would it be necessary for the Councilor of Liberal Democracy of Tržič and the Director of Housing Association to steal 200 million dollars from the municipality, which, according to the court, he lost, which he recently settled by this housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia and could not or could not have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u201	Mr. Rupar, please. I'd suggest you go out and talk like we all have to listen to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u202	Now you're a little late, you should have done that when he was reading and lyingly attacked me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u203	I'd like to ask you one more time. Be patient. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u204	Let's just do another epilogue. The post-revision report on the remedial measures says: We have reviewed the response report that was drawn up by the municipality on the basis of the audit report for 2003 and in part for 2004. We have estimated that the response report, which was confirmed by the mayor of the municipality of Tržič with a signature and seal, is credible. We estimate that the response report contains satisfactory measures to address the irregularities identified in the audit report. Your Igor Soltes." Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Rupar. I think you've said everything with this, and please, there's no more debate or replica. I'd like to ask Mrs. Pechanovo. [[Back-up advertising.]] Please, Mr. Squeakle, please! If he mentions you, I'll give you the word for a short replica, but please, don't argue about this topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The basic issue I want to talk about is the trade credit. Commodity credit usually occurs when it is not possible to close the flight obligation. And the commercial credit is defined in Article 2 of this Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u207	Thank you very much for that explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u208	If you'll just let me finish my sentence. What was said by the mayor, Mr Rupar, is only that he made a trade loan, nothing else, and that is why he got a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much for explaining. Please! I'm gonna stop this debate. I don't think that leads anywhere. Mrs. Pecanova, you have applied for the debate. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u210	I have no intention of replicating anyone. Colleagues would just ask, no matter what group they are from, if they're so kind and let us discuss the amendments, the law, the novelties they are, not the ones they're accounting for. I must say, this has already become distasteful - it applies to both sides. I would like to reiterate why it would be important for this amendment to Article 2 to ensure that it is possible to borrow credits, I will say, exceptional credits for the construction of other infrastructure facilities. I must say that in the basic, it is said, not even in the basic law, but in the amendments to the 1998 law, when the municipalities were given the opportunity to extend the debt of over 10% to borrow loans for investment in the construction of pipelines and sewerages and dwellings, it was already very narrowly understood that the municipalities would go through their options. It is not clear to me how, regardless of the circumstances, a legislator, in this case of course, the National Assembly, 1998 and now again understands the congregations as some responsible children, who need to be prescribed which and only whose investments can be financed by credit. Now, in this case, four. Of course it's true: in this 20% - yes, but over 20% not. Yes, please! Here I think it is clear enough that what is more than 20% is only allowed for specific purposes, and all that is outside these four narrowly drawn purposes, and this is forbidden to the municipalities by means of Or could, Mr. Bajec, please apply to the word and then discuss it if necessary? [[...]] If you think you understand the law differently than I do, explain what you understand differently than me, but when you have a word! Now let me say it to the end, and don't fall into the word, and don't shout in between. I don't scream in the middle when you talk. And so I'm gonna ask you to listen again, and I'm gonna say it again. The amendment states that more than 20% of the debt is allowed - interestingly, it is not limited - for basic education, housing, water supply and public infrastructure for waste water management. What? What if the municipality lacks the possibility of having too little investment to run for EU funds, or if it is not selected for EU co-financing, what then? And certainly not for electricity, not for telephone, not for roads, will never get EU funding because they are not meant to. For regional and regional waste management, for example, it will happen to the municipal community that it will not receive funds from the EU at all because the referendum has now shown that it will not be possible to set up a landfill in this area for the next few years. And as a result, she will probably have to make a commitment so that the deposit can be settled sooner or later. For this reason, I think it would be right that the words "treatment with waste water and water supply" could be replaced by municipal public infrastructure because it would cover everything. Each congregation, however, will determine for itself what is more important to it: either the construction of a plumbing system, or the management of waste management conditions, or roads, or anything else. Surely, no congregation will go into debt in such a way that the next year or the next two three years will be "gagali", according to the local word. So, let's be realistic, let's think about whether there are in the congregations, or whether we're not going to say responsible people, and we're going to be in charge of those things that we're going to think together are the most important. If waste management is the most important or the most important road, of course, this law does not allow it to do so. There's something else I'd like to say, by the way. To talk about the fact that the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development is very open - yes, it is open when it comes to amendments tabled by colleagues from the government coalition. However, when it comes to amendments tabled by the opposition, specifically by the Social Democrats, I can say that this is a very closed committee, in the case of the amendment of colleague Bojan Kontič to Article 1, which, with the exact same text, proposed the deletion of the paragraph, which spoke of the opinion of the Minister of Finance, in order to eliminate the borrowing of loans by municipalities, if this jeopardises the entry into the euro area or - not to mention. When the vote on these two amendments, which were literally the same, the committee, which was very open to all ideas and suggestions, rejected the amendment of counterpart Kontić and confirmed the amendment which was the same text, and proposed by the government, of course, as if it were a committee. So we can't talk about this committee as an open committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Jagar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. I understand the Member of Parliament in its implementation, because it is also the mayor and knows this issue. And I hope that you have also been listened to by a member from the opposite bench, because you have said a lot of things that we have been explaining all the time, about responsible conduct and so on, which is also an integral part of the management of the congregations. As regards this part of the funding within the scope of the State budget, I would like to try to clarify. The purpose of the debt is not to solve the problem of regular financing, it is said, of regular activities. Regular activities cannot be covered by systemic resources, and I think that, to a large extent at this time, spending is also appropriate because those municipalities are the most affected - in relation to the transfer of tasks that have been carried out in the past period. Thus, the extent of the indebtedness is primarily intended for investments. With regard to investments, we have increased the volume of debt from 10% to 20% for different types of investments first. This is also the case for 20% of investments. Above all, it is important that the possible scope of the annual commitment has increased because it was different before. It used to be 5 or 3, and now it's 5 plus 3, so it's 8%, and that's that limit. As far as exceptions are concerned, however, we have increased the exemptions from the previous exceptions, as you yourself have said, by two, that is, with investments in schools that are currently practically not co-financed from European funds and are large stocks for the smallest municipalities, because they have, say, one school, and that is, if you want, a billion-dollar investment for the next 25 years at least, and probably a little longer. And we have increased the exceptions, for so-called European investments, it is said, for those investments co-financed or co-financed by European resources. It is not possible to include these investments within the framework of certain projects at this time, for example, in infrastructure, as you mentioned, because, except for the Cohesion Fund, it is not possible to include this in the Structural Funds at this time, because this content was lost in the programming document when this document was being prepared. However, we plan for the next financial perspective to include such investments. Last but not least, we have reached a common conclusion in our discussions with the Commission; this is also in some way a suggestion from the European Commission itself. In the future, given the larger volume of such funds, virtually all development investments will have to be partly co-financed from European funds, which means that this pool of investments will increase significantly. Of course, if we accepted this amendment of yours, it means that the practical scope of the debt would be fully open. And that's what it's opposed to from the opposite bench. Here is our thinking, and for what is now, we believe that this is actually enough. In general, as far as investment in waste disposal is concerned, these investments, as far as I know, will not be different from regional ones, which means that municipalities will have to agree and will, and I think, at this point, virtually all such projects in terms of investment are co-financed by European funds and can then be participated in this respect. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Smaller investments under this heading, as far as I know, with regard to environmental constraints, will not be possible. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u214	I would just like to say first for the public and for all my colleagues and colleagues that I had no idea that I would even consider that this assignment could be intended for current needs, absolutely never and ever. So please, Mr. Minister, listen well when I say something, I have never thought of it this way, because I think it is the most unacceptable thing to remember from the congregation at all to fund current needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u215	Thanks for the explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u216	The second thing I would say - just one more thing - is that when we talk about types of investments, about the purpose of investment funds, it is for me domesticism if the government wants to command through the law, what municipalities will invest in the funds they will hire for loans when we talk about municipal infrastructure. And for that, please, let's understand that we don't need to, we really don't need excessive control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pecan's explanation was, of course, a controversy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u218	I've got two minutes. And there's something else I'd like to say: [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u219	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u220	And three wholes!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u221	Just don't go into trouble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u222	No, I'm not. I'm just explaining.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u224	If I may just give you a brief explanation. As far as 20% of the debt is concerned, there are no restrictions by the government on what can be financed from this title in essence. It's not! All investments are possible inside that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Ficko signed up for the debate. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now that we have thoroughly reworked the municipality of Tržič, Mrs Pecanovo has again taken over to explain certain things to us, so that I really do not know whether we are talking about any specific congregation or about the law that is the subject of the debate. At least anyone else would be good to say something about the law itself. I would also expect that those 45 minutes would be enough for my colleagues in the Liberal Democracy to get acquainted with the basic content and with the basic reason for the bill, so that they would not be discussing at this time, when we are talking about a very specific matter, all the problems the municipalities have. We also know that the congregations are underfunded and that it will be necessary to draw up a system law. That was also said, and that is what the explanation says in this law. However, the main reason is to increase the absorption capacity of credits, mainly from European funds, municipalities. This is basic, which has been highlighted several times and we are talking about this. The extent to which some congregations are indebted, even in this area, which is now limited to 20%. This should be the system in which you ruled, controlled, and not permitted, as you call it, illegal debts. Nothing will change that now in these congregations; of course, they will no longer be able to do so because some oversight is provided for. However, they would be indebted to those congregations that would want to draw on funds, but they had not been able to do so until now. Of course, those who have so far moved, I suppose they have smartly credited themselves - unless there are any mayors who have been setting up monuments for themselves - and there are indeed citizens who will now be deprived. For I suppose that the limit will be respected for all the congregations forward. And the amendments. I don't know how many times it's been said about the waste disposal amendment. How many times has it been said on the labour market, and today these are projects of regional importance; that everyone will also be financed from the EU funds they call for there. So that this is covered in marriage and I don't know how many times it will probably have to be explained that someone will be perceived as a fact. Of course, I am on my own at work as well as today, I will support that proposal, which gives me the opportunity to be in charge of housing and water supply construction. In some congregations this is very well arranged, even Prekmurje has problems with water supply. And since each congregation has to add its own resources, unfortunately some do not have their own budgets, they will have to be in debt. The European Fund will co-finance only primary waters. I was happy to support Mr Marinič's proposal at that time and I will also support him today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Hwauc, would you like to speak earlier? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u228	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I promise that in my debate I will not mention my esteemed colleague, Brick and Rupar, so as not to reopen the debate that has already been adjourned.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u229	You've already mentioned them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u230	I know. So I would focus on this law, which is the subject of discussion. First of all, I would say that my opinion and general opinion are here, as it was to see that the existing law is bad. This is shown in the poor financial situation of municipalities, in small development projects, in the fact that municipalities are not able to draw funds from European funds. Clearly, what we are dealing with today is not a systemic solution. We know that. If this area is to be resolved systematically, then it will also be necessary to determine the competences of the municipalities, those that have been created in the course of the previous authorities and for which no additional funding has been provided and to provide, I suppose, greater funds for financing these commitments. This, of course, is not such a simple task, because simple funds are limited in Slovenia and if we are to devote more money to municipalities, it will be necessary to tell who we want, on the other hand. From this point of view, I take this law as some kind of fire-fighting law, which, as already mentioned by my colleague Sušnik, is a second step in solving the very pressing problem of municipalities and is such a fire-fighting measure, a good aim to resolve this difficult situation. Because many colleagues have disputed why the debt, why the debt increases, and so on. If we want to implement some long-term projects, it is also clear in other areas: yes, I do not know, through the state budget as well as in private life, that this is very difficult to finance from current revenues, so in the world we have different ways besides debt, which unfortunately are not sufficiently developed. I am talking about concessions, I am talking about a common, public, private partnership, and there are probably more possible ways. Since these ways are simply not developed in us, it remains the only option of debt. I come from one, I think not so small a congregation where it was necessary to build or upgrade a school for the needs of a nine - year - old. The project was a difficult one-year budget for this congregation, and it is clear that it was not possible to do so from the current revenues of the year, it was impossible to do so for several years, and then there was nothing left to do but to do so. With a bank loan - I'm talking. This means, of course, that there is still less funding for other development projects and for ongoing tasks, and in fact this solution proposed by this law will make it easier for this municipality to function. I would also like to mention the example of a neighboring congregation where they chose a slightly different route, where they updated the school and upgraded the gym with the help of a leasing - for 20 years - and no one wondered whether this meant an additional public debt, how we would repay it, within what time frame, what it meant for the congregation, etc. 20 years! And look at him, a month before the national elections comes the opening of this terrible acquisition by the President of the State himself with a school minister and a candidate for a state-level MP. Is this not the gathering of pre-election points that you are basically telling us to do with this law? That was last year, a good year ago! There's one more thing I'd like to mention. It has been reported several times today that 40 municipalities were overindebted in Slovenia. I wonder, yes, what country did we live in, that it was possible that no one had prevented it, that the system allowed it. We're breaking laws or breaking laws, and nothing happened. I am sure that this new solution, which is, and the consistent implementation of this law will no longer allow it, and I hope that some order will prevail in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Squeakl is applying for the debate. Anyone else? I'm sorry, Mr. Squeakle, I really didn't see it. Do you have a replica? I'm sorry, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u232	It's okay. I wanted to say that nothing "receives me", Mr Ficko, and you can also hold back a little while when you put your inappropriate comments at the expense of someone who, I hope, still or at least for some time has the freedom of speech and speech, you can also say things that are at his heart several times in this national assembly. Therefore, I ask you not to allow yourself such distasteful remarks for the second time. And once again, I will say: talk about how right it is, what is extended to over-indebted debt, across that border, the basic limits of indebtedness, the construction of apartments, plumbing and sewerage, please go look at the article that we are changing. This is an article that already had these three things in it in 1998, then the amendment of the law deleted housing and added schools. So, please, let's take a look at what happened in the past and what it is today. When you talk about how stupid others are, look in the mirror first. Okay?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I would warn you that I really gave a replica, although it was a controversy and probably a rule of procedure, exactly according to the rules of procedure, what Mr Ficko said was not for a replica, but for a controversy. Thank you very much. So much for that. Mr. Bajc, please. Can I help you? Excuse me? Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's a rough day this afternoon, I don't know, maybe there's something out there with the weather. Allow me to explain by myself the figures, however, because no one on the part of the government representatives wants to see what my problem is as President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. With all due respect for the analysis of the past, one thing is clear: that in the past we have achieved the extent of the shortage of units at the local level of the country to limit. In 2001 0% of gross domestic product or 1.5 billion, in 2002 9.7, in 2003 4 billion, in 2004 3.6 billion. These are deficits. And with this law, the danger is the next. First it increases in the second amendment - and only I will talk about it - after Article 1 from 10% to 20% the possibility of borrowing. 10% of municipalities' income is about 0.5% of GDP or 30 billion. So then, in the first paragraph of Article 2, this can be increased by an additional 30 billion. These are the facts, I think we know that - 30 billion. Then we have the second paragraph, which gives the limit not to the amount of income, but to the 3% limit, but does not say how long you can be in debt. And, look, in Slovenian banks today, it is very easy to get a 30 - year loan or 33 - year - old credit. Very simple! And 3% of revenue at 33 years is 100% of the expenditure of Slovenian municipalities. However, Slovenian municipalities have all the expenditure for about 5% of gross domestic product or 300 billion. And in 2005 and 2006, it is possible to increase the expenditure of municipalities on the basis of this law - an additional 300 billion. An extra 300 billion! This, of course, means Mr. Rokavec, these are the numbers. [[...]] However, the summary of data for calculating the Maastricht debt and deficit criteria of the state sector clearly states that, on the basis of the country's unit deficit alone, we will have 9.4% of the deficit in 2005 following the adoption of the debt from the ZPIZ in this National Assembly. So by the Maastricht criteria, we only have 0.6% left. These are the facts, Mr. Rokavec! That's how numbers are read and analyzed. The problem is that this law gives an opportunity, but no one is limiting it, especially when the chairman of the committee happily, along with others, threw out the second paragraph of the first article. And that's why I say this law is an non-systematic law, this law is a systemic error. However, a systemic error is because, of course, it is the proposer who has only one interest and I understand it. Mr Rokavec, Mr Jagar, Members of Parliament, especially those who are Members, I understand you! It is necessary to create a space for increased borrowing. However, the matter should be limited. However, the matter is not limited because it is not a limited period within which the congregations can be indebted. If you wrote 3% here, but the municipalities could have the longest deadline of five years, two years, or ten years, it would be known. However, since this deadline is not, on the contrary, in the first paragraph, in that amended Article, even allow the issue to be refinanced, you have opened the door and I tell you, there is no mayor who will not be willing to refinance the obligation because the financial director or director of the financial service will say to him there in the municipality: "Look, if we refinance the bank, we are willing to do so, why not, we will simply have more room to finance the projects next year. That is why we, as the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances, have said that it would be minimally necessary to obtain data for 2004 to obtain data for 2005. And as a national assembly, we should be very careful about what will happen. Now, of course, we will have a situation that I think will become uncontrollable. Especially before the 2006 local elections. And the last thought that you will understand is that, I don't know, some of you have talked about this relationship with the EU. Today the Prime Minister met with the members of the Reform Committee. The members of the Reform Committee have the task of preparing a proposal to implement the Slovenian Development Strategy. And one of the key elements of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, a document adopted by your government, Mr Žagar, on 14 or 15 July, says in point two: Adapting Slovenian public finances to draw on European funds. And it says there that Slovenian public finances will be adjusted for about 2% of GDP or 120 billion to create space. However, Slovenian public finances are being adapted as my respected colleague, Rupar, should do, not take up a trade credit after that or that law, but rather reduce any other consumption. And that's the systemic error in this marriage! I understand the Slovenian People's Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, that this is important if you want a pre-election project. I totally understand that. Of course, I regret that the result will be that in Slovenian municipalities, at the end of 2006, we will have a large increase in the indebtedness of municipalities, and that this, I fear, will have a very important negative impact on Slovenia's ability to take over the euro in 2006. These are the facts. If that is not the case, Mr Rokavec, the government should propose an amendment in Article 2(2) and say that 3% of the revenue realised is maintenance capacity for a maximum of three years. Write it in the amendment if you hope. You don't hope that, as you didn't want to bring information about municipalities, so I'm saying that the law is a systemic error and, of course, it's not a systemic law. That is the situation, and that is why, as President of the Commission and as Member of the Liberal Democracy, I have to draw attention to it. I believe this will be adopted today, but I warn you that you have opened a major public financial problem and I regret that there is no Minister for Finance present here, but this one is obviously no longer in control of its basic tasks, let alone what other ministers send to the National Assembly past the government, or they are changing in the National Assembly with the help of members of the coalition. The fact that you have taken away from the Minister of Finance the mandate he had in the second paragraph of Article 1 would be very serious if, of course, he still wanted to carry on this function. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We are continuing the debate on Article 2 to remind you, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Rokavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. Of course, there is a need to respond to this fill-in and incorrect comparison of facts. First, it must be said that the extent of the debt now foreseen, which increases from 10% to 20%, and also the volume which is above 20%, of course, after the law has been resolved, is cleared of those current revenues, investment and other transfers. Those who are well acquainted with municipal budgets may find that these revenues are about 20 percent or more, up to 30%. These revenues will no longer be regarded after the amendment of the law as revenue for the borrowing framework. So this is where we're narrowing down the manoeuvring area of debt. Secondly, we narrow down the maneuverable area of indebtedness of Slovenian municipalities when we define any possible financial obligation of the municipality as the extent to which the municipalities are indebted. And when we add each other up, we're on the same page, roughly the same. The only thing we are expanding is a framework beyond 20%, and this is for the purpose of European funds where this country wants it to be better prepared for Slovenia to draw funds in the next financial perspective, as it was in the present, with a set of projects, both from the whole of the local infrastructure, which would be an integral part of the so-called infrastructure in the new 2007-2013 programming period, investment aid on infrastructure resources. The 2007 budget is likely to reflect clearly on the SVR item what you, honourable Member, have already said, namely, the full integration of regional funds into European funds. This is our purpose and will be a major change from budget planning in 2005 and 2006. This will be possible within weeks of the Government's transmission of this proposal to the National Assembly as well. Thus, it is not about opening up the shears of indebtedness; it is primarily about a clear, transparent definition of what the debt framework is, and about the possibility of greater flexibility for municipalities where this is essential for development projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to add some stones to this mosaic of debate on Article 2. I understand and agree with this that the funding of the municipalities needed certain changes. And one of those things that acts as a guide in life is that if there's no order in money, there's no place for it. However, I am concerned that with this law, when we speak on the one hand only about borrowing, we have not heard anything today in a few hours’ discussion, but how it will be in the control of this matter. Because in practice things are sometimes very, very different and if I say another old saying that money makes money and debt. With this law, which will be adopted today, I am sure, we are doing the congregations a bear service, and we are merely delaying the problem for a few years. You mentioned earlier that, of course, as one of the guardians of the congregation, they are holy. I must say that in many municipalities, with the absolute authority of the municipal councils, there is only one stage in democracy, that most of them function solidly and well. On the one hand, we pay four parishioners, and on the other hand, we do not have emergency repairs in schools and kindergartens, and we do not have for roaders who can fix our old and torn macadam road. In this regard, not a single word has been heard today about the Supervisory Committees. We've got this old system of self-control, and this thing isn't right. Of course, what is now being done, I think it is in the long run to the detriment of Slovenia, but this will undoubtedly be of benefit to the local authorities before the elections. About the municipal budgets, many of them became hostages of the mayoral and parliamentary careers. I come from a congregation where, last year before the elections, we opened and opened all day long, we pay debts this year, but we haven't done yet, and we haven't even opened a metre of asphalt. You said it was the control of the municipal councils. From the municipality where I come from, we have 2 million 300 revenue in the budget, and only when we received the Court's report did the appalled saints notice that we have a total of 890 million outstanding liabilities at two billion. There has never been a debate on any of these matters at a rare meeting of the municipal council and never a speech. And these are the little things that will make this marriage and this matter and these amendments worse. The devil is always in the details. I will tell you this, not politically, but well-intentionedly, it is always necessary to anticipate that positive, optimistic scenario that you have, I am sure, well-intentioned in front of your eyes, but when we are doing the law, it is also necessary to check the blackest, most extreme scenario where these things, if there is no control, can lead us. When we throw these things on the table, then we'll see that the truth is in the middle of something and that money is no joke. But I'll keep going. Years ago, I read an interesting thought, and I liked it very much, today's Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, who gave a speech on a big stunner. At that time, he said that before each sowing, weed must first be grown. And you, with this law to clean the soil before the new seed, will leave nothing to contribute, leave the roots of the weeds in debt to the congregations, perhaps cover them with a few inches of land, but in the spring, when the vegetation is lush, then this weed will grow even stronger and more scalding, and this will be our problem for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u240	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd say to my colleague Brada that I washed my hands today, so they're no longer dirty, just like we were characterized yesterday, that we have dirty hands with another item of the agenda. Another time. I looked in the mirror, too, so you don't have to send me back to the mirror to look at myself, just like your colleagues did earlier in the debate. But I apologize for falling into the word, but for these two reasons, mirrors and dirty hands. I would like to move on to an amendment to Article 2 of the Act, which we are dealing with for one simple reason. I expected that if we were already those with dirty hands that we could not read, but we had to look in the mirror at the fact that we had not read the law, one would expect the opposition to read the law and that it was aligned and that it was at least about the same. Today, when I listen to all this part of this afternoon and even this afternoon, I see that they are diametrically opposed to each other, one would extend the possibilities of borrowing, one would increase this debt, and one would say that we are already former, present or, I don't know, which mayors have already "furnished" everything. That's one. Second. I would reiterate that, although we are now considering this law Article 2 and the amendments to the second article, but the law has several more articles and this Article 2 has a first paragraph, the second paragraph is being amended, I think that the Minister and the Secretary of State have explained the content of the first paragraph, which refers to 20% of the debt, with annual borrowing not exceeding 3% and there are no restrictions here, it is said that it can be charged with all that they will accept by adopting the budget in the municipalities of the municipal council on the proposal of the mayor. The amendment proposed by the coalition, and here I went to my colleague Brada to read it to the end, talking about some, an additional 3%, and a narrow possibility of borrowing, saying, I think that also colleague Breda and other discussers spoke today that we don't have programmes because we have small congregations because we can't agree on regional projects. So if we are actually going to want to make an additional debt for this 3%, we're going to have to have some regional programmes, and then we're probably going to be funding something other than that limited. I appreciate a little more of the resources and opportunities of the municipalities in this development work, and here I also agree with my colleague Breda and also the minister, when they say that we must also have a system law and so-called appropriate spending, probably over time, and I hope that in the mandate of this government we will succeed in this lapus, which, at the moment, from 165 or 166 municipalities, is receiving financial compensation, there is one mistake in my system that 28 or 30 municipalities are self-sufficient with the so-called appropriate consumption. In part, we are dealing with this law, but I expect that, as soon as possible, we will actually get a system law that will arrange for exceptions to those who will have financial compensation and that the rule will be that the municipalities will be self-sufficient with their own resources. In part, it is being rectified by this year's budget rebalancing when additional financial compensatory funds have increased by 10%. Something small, I think it will also work with the 2006 budget, but I hope that, as soon as possible, things will be settled, and the current exceptions will become a rule and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I didn't think I'd make it this fast. I also agree that this is inappropriate, what I did to make a phone call, but, gentlemen, remember that you often make phone calls or accept a shorter phone call. Comrade Anderlich, you used to know how to make phone calls, and when we voted, you left this room. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u243	Mr. Sok, you have the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u244	Because you let him provoke me here from the bench. [[...]] Thank you very much. I would also like to touch this amendment myself, but I can see that it is generally a matter of law as a whole, so I understand, my colleague Saiovic. If everyone here were to explain their situation in the congregation from which it comes, then they would hear very strange stories. I always listen to about this Market. I don't feel like explaining how it is in Ormozh. There's a colleague of yours sitting next to the mayor, and I can bring you a cassette, and you can check it out at home. You'll see what an interesting situation we have, which is similar to what you're describing. As far as this law is concerned with the possibility of providing additional resources to municipalities, I see no reason why we are here with some procedural attempts and thus continue to try to delay or prevent the adoption of this law. Personally, I am sure, and even with my own eyes, everyone who wants to see it can see how incredibly fast these small congregations, which were formed either four years ago or eight years ago, have progressed in a developmental sense. If we enable them to prepare projects and run for European cohesive and structural funds with a larger source of credit, then, of course, this is a major acceleration and a contribution to further development. It is true, however, that in the past we have witnessed that the parties to the ruling coalition have tried their best to prevent the development of these small and prospective communities. This entailed new and new commitments, new and new tasks, but at the same time they were not afforded adequate financial resources. And now it has to be fixed in some way. These repairs are going in multiple directions. One of these is to try to normalise certain matters, it is said that the state assumes certain tasks entrusted to the municipalities. One of these are, say, those domestic helpers, we've discussed this before in this session. One of the measures is that through the budget, and this has already happened with the rebalancing and also for 2005 and with the 2006-2007 budget, it will be ensured that municipalities are provided with more suitable spending and also greater investment funds. One of the proposals, however, is this law, which we have before us today, which will allow municipalities to be in an additional debt if they have projects and if these projects are to run for European funding. It does not claim that the Ministry of Finance does not know the state of indebtedness at this time. The Ministry of Finance has the information sent by the municipalities. And this is information on how much the municipalities have committed in monetary policy. Of course, the Ministry of Finance cannot have data on how much, I don't know, some municipalities are indebted through commodity credits or through unpaid service delivery. If the municipalities are prepared and the data are provided, then the finance ministry will also have this information. I listened with interest to Mrs Zalokar Orazem when she spoke about the fact that the municipalities were much more indebted than the financial ministry had. She spoke firsthand as the mayor. There are several mayors and mayors here who can talk like that. Of course, we Members don't know that. Many times, too, the congregation councilors may not know. It is very sensitive that the oversight committees of the congregations do not know. I believe it will be necessary to make one change in the legislation and allow the saints, municipal and supervisory committees to know how many such loans or leasings or something like that some mayor took over and signed on behalf of a municipality. This experience and what the mayors are saying will, of course, be necessary for them to study seriously in the government and then actually try to get accurate data. However, at this point, as I have already said, there are data on the borrowing of loans, on financial indebtedness, but there is no complete data on total indebtedness. As far as this marriage is concerned. If we did not adopt this law today and, as the opposition wishes, postpone the adoption of this law to a later period, they would not do any service to these municipalities. In no way would we approach what you demand for the financial ministry to present a complete picture of financial indebtedness, because it does not have a full picture of financial indebtedness, as it does only recognise, at this point. Only to achieve what the municipalities want - this is to get as much European money for their own development - would somehow delay and thus actually give up in 2005 the means that we can possibly use on this path even in fact, if I say so, to seize. For this reason, we need to adopt this law as soon as possible, that the law will be published as soon as possible in the Official Journal and that the congregations will know by what means they can count. Let me get this straight. I am convinced that this is a major contribution to progress, especially in those parts of Slovenia that are capital in a much worse position, especially those municipalities that want or need to create faster development in demographically threatened areas. And if it will help them - and there is no reason not to - still the law on coherent regional development that we will adopt at this meeting [[I think it's on the agenda on Tuesday.]] , then this ruling coalition has taken a major step to help with the field of local self-government. I find it difficult to understand the objections of some opposition colleagues who are trying with such and other amendments, with such and other procedural complications, to obstruct this process. The coalition has decided to adopt this law, and in New Slovenia, of course, we will do everything in our power to make this law effective as soon as possible, as we have agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I went back to the debate because I would like to deny a performance before that by my fellow Member, Mr Cwickl, because he was deceiving the public or explaining that the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance does not participate in this law or does not know what is actually absurd about these statements. I have to say, you probably know, there was even a suggestion on the committee that this additional debt should increase from 3% to 4%. In fact, this also addressed the Ministry of Finance, which did not agree. I am very surprised or must say that Member Squeakl has probably not calculated what these changes meant by the Ministry of Resortative Affairs. After all these discussions, I firmly believe that what Mr Bajc has explained before that some things have not been analysed and spoken in such a way, I think it is very unfair. As has already been said, by the Minister and by the Secretary of State, given that transfers or other revenues are now no longer covered outside the appropriate consumption, this does not mean what some have actually hoped or expected. So once again, I must point out that such listening here in the national debate without anyone having any argument or basis to claim anything, it seems to me that speaking in mind. While I must say or wish to say that my colleague, Mr Cwickle, has recently, or for some time, not taken seriously, let it be an explanation of Mercator, on these matters, which was also a matter of thought. I don't know what to say about the Ljubljana market.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, you have a replica or debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Very briefly. To a fellow Member, I would like to say to my fellow Member that I have taken all this into account in the previous calculation because 5% of the gross domestic product is 300 billion and because this so-called eliminated is an appropriate consumption or an eliminated transfer of about 30 billion. So, unfortunately, the municipalities can, if there is no restriction in this second paragraph, be in debt up to 100% of their budgets, which is about 5% of the gross domestic product. These are the facts. However, if the government or if you, even if you really wanted to, wrote here 3% of the additional revenue realised, so that the debt period should not be longer than 3, 5, 10 years, then you would have at least a known number. That's why I had to explain this as President of the Commission. We have a situation where this systemic error is simply a situation where the funding of municipalities will be different from what is currently envisaged in the so-called country-wide debt plan, including local-level units. The Ministry of Finance simply did not take this into account. The Ministry of Finance has also insisted on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances that the Minister has the power to suspend stability under the provisions of the Stability Pact, but knows that the Members of the ruling coalition have in particular advocated that this provision be deleted and that it has also been deleted on the home working body. Thus, the Minister of Finance, who has not yet been present in the National Assembly on this subject, simply does not know whether or not he already knows that this provision has been deleted, so he will not be able to comply with his obligations under the Public Finance Act of the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Guilty, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. First, about the amendment. I support the amendment because it opens up more opportunities for certain construction of infrastructure for municipalities. But I stopped by for one other reason. The whole time, it was emphasized how the law would be played, where the chances of this happening, where the guards were written and so on. It should be pointed out that, even in the current law, debt was possible and, in essence, control was carried out both through municipal councils, which some now consider to be some kind of mayoral pendant, as well as through supervisory committees. On the other hand, all development projects and debt through development projects must also be reported to the finance ministry that approves projects. And the same is true now. Even the demagogies that the mayor can deceive the municipal council are not true. Any congregation counselor can go and take all the municipal documents, both financial and all other conclusions, and no matter can be hidden, only if the desire of the saints is to clear up certain matters. I don't think the mayor can hide anything from the municipal council and from a supervisory council with the same powers. It is unacceptable to speak of mayors as being able to implement their own budget and certain duties. That's all I wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 2. We're moving on to Article 5. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I would only briefly explain why and what the essence of this amendment is. It is about the need for cooperation or co-financing of investments in each municipality, including in all those who are financed by themselves, which are important for the municipality, but often also for the implementation of the programme, or I will say the visions that the Government of our country has in the development of specific areas of importance and usefulness that the funds allocated by the State to co-finance these investments are more equitablely shared. The ratio between the funds allocated by the State to co-finance important investments is now very remote: from 10% in municipalities that exceed a certain percentage of the appropriate consumption or not the appropriate consumption, but in the country's average income, to 70% in municipalities that are far below that average. It is understandable and correct that municipalities with lower income on incomes have a higher share of the country in co-financing these investments, but the fact is that some municipalities simply do not come to realize their plans, which are of vital importance for each municipality, because they do not receive only 10%, but often 10% of the individual investment. Why not 10%? This is because individual ministries in the budget receive only a limited amount of funds allocated and then allocate these resources to the Ministry, depending on its capacity, by determining, at its own discretion, which municipality will be allocated individual funds. Most of the time it happens that those municipalities that have had a high percentage of income per capita after the marriage, on average in Slovenia, did not get that 10%. I can tell you a few examples of how this happened. For the most eloquent case, i.e. not an exact case, I would say to a colleague who used the wrong term in relation to this concept, the most eloquent case was the case of the municipality of Vrhnika years ago when the kindergarten burned down in their home country, but they were not receiving a ton of funds from the state budget when the kindergarten had to be rebuilt. I believe that if we do not already have a more fair way of determining the necessity of individual investment in a particular municipality, it would be more fair for the Ministry of State to review all the investments that have been made, to assess the situation in which it is being invested, of all the municipalities applying for the call of each ministry and then to rank it. So let's say it happened to the Ministry of Health and, in this case, don't mind because you're saying it's wrong for a specific case to be listed. In the municipality of Izola, we built a health home, which was classified as an old healthcare home in the very top need of alternative construction in the whole country. However, in an investment that weighed 625 million, we received from the state budget rivers and wrote 23 million tolars of the country's share. It is said that far below 10%, which at the time belonged to the congregation of Izola. But the Ministry of Health, by its commission, which visited completely all facilities that were in need of extenuation or replacement construction, or whatever, estimated that the old healthcare home in Isola was most needed to replace it throughout the country. Nevertheless, as we say, we received such an amount. Something similar is happening to our rescue station, which is also in need of replacement construction, and we will get from an investment that weighs about 260 million, this time very large, because now we are in the 20% class because our income per capita has fallen compared to the average in Slovenia, so we will get a little less than 20 percent, about 41 million tolars. In any case, on these concrete two cases, we can go on, and on the most drastic one from Vrhnika years ago, we can say that today's way of assigning state funds to carry out an individual investment is not correct, because it does not take into account the need for an individual investment, because it does not find that, let's say, in a municipality that urgently needs a school in order to conduct a nine-year primary school in a spatial sense, to say the least, they have the worst educational conditions here. It is therefore right that this congregation, not only gets these funds first, but also receives them to the fullest extent possible. This is why we are proposing such an amendment, to which, as a criterion for ranking co-financing by the State, we are setting up a new system, not more income, but adequate spending, and that additional funds are set at a lower difference of between 30% and 50%. Such a way of dividing resources does not, of course, result in a lack of co-financing resources in the country, as co-financing has been fully reduced. At the same time, this is, of course, a thing that cannot be put into this law, it would probably be right for the government to give to the ministries in question a field, health, education, environment and so on, guidance on how to decide which municipalities to co-finance and which ones not. In this way, in my humble opinion, a number of investments that the congregations are now waiting for and cannot possibly come to fruition would have been made long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Ficko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to be a little disappointed at the beginning, Mrs Pecanovo, because I didn't have time to look in the mirror. I don't think I'm a model, but I don't have a mirror problem yet. But I suggest you take a look at the magnetogram. I wasn't talking about stupid suggestions, but you can't even check stupidity with a mirror, except maybe you, I don't know. About the amendment, that's all. I would even support him when I read the first paragraph and the second paragraph. The method of determining the criteria for co-financing could need to be changed and taken as a starting point for achieving its own revenue, not an income that is not the only source of the municipality’s own income. But this other part is completely absurd, and I don't know, days ago we were told if we were hoping for anything. I don't know how anyone hoped for such an amendment to sign. What does the proposal mean in particular: it takes on the poor and gives to the rich. Those who have so far been co-financed by the state of 70% will get 20% less, those who have already received 60% less, those who have received 20% of the co-financing so far will get 10%, those who reach over 130% of the average when we talk about income in this table. It is literally, I don't know, a mockery when we talk about coherent regional development in the same breath to help poor municipalities catch the average developed, and such a proposal comes to the National Assembly. This should be in front of the mirror. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u255	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the meeting's timetable today in the context of the half-hour vote, which is at 18.35. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue, as I said, at 6:35 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u256	We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Firearms Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, first of all on the amendment to Article 4. We are voting on the amendment of Article 4 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. Of the 74 present Members and Members, 30 votes to 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of the Social Democrats' parliamentary group to the 31st Article. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Thursday, 29 September 2005, following the end of the last item of the agenda for this meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of the 14th item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Members, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. Of the 81 members present, 81 voted in favour. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on detective activity following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the government or the legal service have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. It's 76 votes to 1. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Public Collections, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. I note that from 82 Members and Members voted 63 to 19. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. Of the 81 Members present, only 80 voted in favour. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one's against it.]] We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on Community Financing - a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are voting on Article 2 on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 2. Voice explanation, Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We have already said in the beginning that we support the law because of the content in the Slovenian National Party. However, as far as Article 2 is concerned, we also asked, in the meantime, what does it mean to specify the differences between the specific elements that are justified in the content to the reason for crediting, and, on the other hand, what it would mean to refer to this individual title as follows: public municipal infrastructure. Given that the content provides, at least after our agreement, that the borrowing of credits is of course a burden for each municipality and that no municipality that works honestly does not want to rent credits alone and simply because of, I don't know, reasons that are not justified, we assess in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group that the term public municipal infrastructure is appropriate, so we will decide and confirm in the Slovenian National Party's delegation those amendments which confirm this term substantively. For the rest of us, we will make our choice of our own free will. However, it is essential that we support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Explanations to Mrs. Zalokar Orazem's voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u259	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to say that we will not support the amendment number one, because we still have no answer as to why only investments that are tactically listed are possible in these additional investments. We absolutely believe that there is a better proposal, which would also include public municipal infrastructure. Public municipal infrastructure, as an investment in this area, always brings financial resources at the end. And in this sense, it seems discriminatory for us to determine by law what are the priorities of each congregation. These differences are significant among the congregations. I have pointed out earlier that each congregation has its own specifics, its biggest problem, which is the supply of drinking water, where there is waste, where there are cleaning facilities, where housing is. This particularity is great, and it seems to us that it is meaningless and meaningless that this autonomy is actually taken by the congregations in this way. Surely, both the second and third amendments are significantly better, and they would become irrelevant with the adoption of this amendment. Once again, I stress that this solution is not good, we have not received the answers, why only certain areas are excluded. However, the debate took place in a way where it was auctioned on individual faces, individual cases and individual municipalities. This makes no sense, so we believe that such an amendment in the Liberal Democracy is simply not why we will not support the two to open up a broader option with which municipalities can determine what are the most urgent areas in which they want to resolve them and, of course, these things are very different across Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u261	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, we will support the amendment to Article 2, this first amendment. I'd like to mention one thing. Given my predecessor's debate, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u262	Just an explanation of the voice, without discussion or a controversy with the predecessor, if there is no reason for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u263	Thank you. In view of the investments covered here, we consider them to be real. Given that certain investments carried out by the municipality or by public undertakings or public economic services are, even in terms of credits or what has been mentioned several times before, that the financial resources provided for the repayment of these loans are in the back, I would like to draw attention to one fact, which no one has actually mentioned today - that these obligations are, in fact, then to the citizens. Probably a lot of people here know that the differences in payment for water, garbage and other municipal services in Slovenia in individual local communities are huge. And I would like to point out that, in fact, it has passed over the obligations of local communities or public utility companies with regard to lending to consumers of these utilities over the last period. And now this argument does not hold back, because this would mean that we will be paying off these annuities with the resource actually being paid by the citizens, additionally burdened by the citizens. However, we know what the social situation is in some congregations or with regard to citizens. That this amendment is highly placed is also considered because we restrict the repayment of the loan according to the depreciation period of the individual investment. And this is also introduced into this amendment. That is why we will support the first amendment of the parliamentary group in Novi Slovenija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Before we go to the vote, I would like to remind you that if the amendment is adopted, the amendments under number 2 and 3 become irrelevant. We're voting. Of the 82 present, 50 votes against 32. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 32.]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Please. There's something I'd like to tell you. Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment of the LDS Group to Article 2. I also point out that the amendment technically inappropriately identifies the paragraphs of the article and will therefore need to be corrected in the event of its adoption. Explanation of voice. Here you go, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u265	On behalf of the Liberal Democracy, let me point out that we will support this amendment. Since many of you were not in the Chamber, I will try to clarify the main elements of this amendment once again and convince you that it would be very appropriate for all of us, especially those who are mayors, to accept this amendment. It is the fact that when municipalities invest in financing from European funds, they are in a position to simply liquidate with their funds, i.e. regular budgetary resources, they cannot provide payments to the operators carrying out these investments, because these funds are actually settled after the investment. For Mr Pojbič's sake, I'm going to try to explain again because I know it's getting harder. Therefore, in the event that municipalities invest in financing from European funds, many municipalities are placed in a position not to provide regular payments to operators. We talked about this when we talked about marriage as a whole. With this amendment, they would simply allow such municipalities to hire a loan, i.e. a kind of bridge loan, until the funds from the European Funds are operational. This would relieve the running liquidity business and, in fact, not impose additional burdens on the budget of such a municipality for a longer period of time, but would remain within those regular budgetary resources. When money comes from the European Union, this money is operational and it is paid to take this temporary resource for these purposes. Therefore, it seems to us that there is absolutely nothing wrong here, it seems to us that those mayors who have these operational experiences, and I think there are many of you among the coalition mayors who are already experiencing these problems to support them, even though the opposition political party has submitted them, although not the mayor, but the MP himself has submitted them. For this reason, once again my appeal, on behalf of the entire Liberal Democracy, that at least this amendment, if not otherwise, be accepted at the symbolic level of the confirmation of one amendment of the opposition Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u266	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. Of the 84 present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of Article 5 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. 84 Members and Members voted 29 to 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We're moving to third reading. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Article 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. I guess not. I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. Explanation of the vote Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u267	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we will support amendments to the Law on Community Financing, although we have great concerns that we have expressed in the long debate today. We believe that finding solutions to the difficult financial situation in the municipalities is not appropriate and is not sufficient solely by borrowing. This is a short-term solution, a solution that will only allow municipalities for a short period of mating and debt in order to co-finance European structural and cohesion funds projects, but unfortunately these changes are such that they do not fully resolve the problem. At the same time, we are also disappointed at the fact that, in fact, at a time when we are making such an important decision, with which the municipalities will in fact be more in debt, we have not received a response from the Ministry of Finance and we have not received a balance sheet. It is obvious that no one in Slovenia knows at this time how much of the municipalities are actually in debt, and in this way we are giving them this opportunity again today in a significantly higher form. It would certainly be good for Slovenia to make such a balance sheet. Last but not least, because we will also cover certain things that took place in this national assembly during the interim period when the congregations, those with more tolerable ones, were also legally indebted. The message to be delivered by the National Assembly is that illegal conduct in this country does not have legitimacy. In this sense, we do not think it is good that we do not have a balance sheet at this time, that we do not know what this debt is. The Court of Auditors and other supervisory authorities have repeatedly informed us that the situation in some environments is very worrying. It is true that as many as 50 congregations are not in debt at all, and it is true that according to the information available to us, in 40 municipalities the debt is excessive, through law, in some so high that changes in the law will not cover them. We also do not agree that the Minister will have, without any further criteria and criteria, 5 billion resources, which we do not know today, in what way they will be distributed to Slovenian municipalities, even though we agree that these funds will be allocated. That's why we're going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u269	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will support it in order to give municipalities the opportunity to participate in obtaining EU money, which is a necessary measure. In doing so, however, I would like to touch a little on the areas of funding for municipalities from other titles. All thanks and thanks to the Minister and Government of the Republic of Slovenia! For the first time in Slovenia we witnessed a single 10% increase in principal in the amount of municipalities. We have accepted this in this mandate. The first half of this money came to municipal budgets last week. What a unique, perfect thing this is for the municipalities, you can tell the mayor. And here criticism or any other speculation is simply not permissible. And yet, to the great joy of those who have not yet participated or intervened substantially in the 2006 budget, we expect another 17% increase in the headship of the municipalities in the coming year. Now, gentlemen, I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the mayors in this assembly, let's ask ourselves if this is not something that we could only dream of. I know that I have not even dreamed of such money, which we can now count on and come to the municipal budgets, in at least another function until now. And if this path is at least delayed, if it is not yet accelerated and continued, then the development of Slovenian municipalities will be a real explosion in the coming years. So far, we have tried all, mayors and mayors, to our best, this path will now be much, much easier, for the sake of the very well-being of those whom we sometimes call citizens, but those who have another function, but first with respect we will appoint citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u270	Thank you, Mr. Rupar. He has the floor to explain his vote, Mr Barovic. Would you like to do it on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u271	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We'll support this marriage. For the first time because we will harmonise it - let's respect once the rules of the game! - Article 9 of the European Charter. Secondly, because we are going to solve this, if it sounds nice or ugly, this country, which can't make enough use of a few billion European funds. I hope we do now. Thirdly, linked to point 2, because this will allow for co-financing of European Union development projects, at least those municipalities that are not very, very rich. For the fourth time - I am pointing to this and I have already pointed out this in the introduction on behalf of the Slovenian National Party - with the absolute conviction that these changes do not bring you - please, this is true, this is very true! - they do not mean that we will be the congregation, by the time we can be more indebted, all of us, all of us are citizens of certain congregations, so that we can lend the country. That's what I'm warning you. We will support this law with great desire and hope that we will draw as many European funds from both funds as possible and, above all, because we hope and wish that the operations of the municipalities will finally be transparent, I hope. I wish and hope, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that we will no longer talk at the next talks about who has done legal or illegal work in the congregation, because I have not heard one sentence today, no congregation will just be legally in debt for itself without a relationship. In doing so, I insist, and I hope that we are all so citizens of this country that we wish each and every one our own environment the best.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u272	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Janc, would you like to speak on behalf of the House? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u273	Thank you very much, distinguished president, distinguished minister, co-workers, colleagues, colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party will be pleased to support this amendment of the Law on Community Financing, simply for one basic reason. As mayor of the municipality of Sevnice, I have noted for several years that the financing of municipalities was extremely poor, untransparent and, above all, the imposition of new and new obligations on local communities without additional resources. Many Slovene municipalities are on the verge of bankruptcy and the rehabilitation of Slovenian municipalities is urgently needed. It is true that with the 2005 rebalancing we have taken a significant step and this money has come and will come into these empty budgets and partially mitigate the financial deficit. It is also true that with family assistants, as was the debate in the National Assembly today, this budget is once again given new and new obligations, not to mention kindergartens and other stories. I think this will be the subject of future coordination by both coalition and government. I am confident that these 10% will be used carefully and well for developmental needs. However, I am afraid, and I also note that there is too much mistrust between governments, countries and local communities, as if we are not partners, as if we are using this money for no one. Finally, each congregation has such or different congregation councils, has a supervisory committee that cares, has audits and similar things, and believe me, we put money well and well into our development needs. I certainly say this with all my responsibility, perhaps the country is at times a much worse master of its resources, which it spends directly on such and different developments. I am sure that the government will take a step forward at the meeting tomorrow in terms of funding Slovenian municipalities, not only allowing current inflation to happen again, but those promises that we have all made together, so that we will try gradually every year six, seven, eight literally come back to the green also with regard to the financing of Slovenian municipalities. I hope that this will happen and that this money will also come to the necessary cash registers and that it will be well loaded in these local communities, as it will, we will see it tomorrow at the government meeting and probably later in the national assembly when we consider future budgets. The first steps are encouraging. It is good that we have a ministry, good that we have encouraging results and I believe that better times will also be good for Slovenian local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u274	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr Kontic, do you want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u275	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We have already warned in the introduction that this is not the law, and this is what the applicant himself states in explanation that this is not a law that will systematically regulate the financing of municipalities and that we still expect this to happen, perhaps this year. I am also not sure that debting the right solution is a long-term solution and that it is imperative that these matters be effectively regulated systematically. However, I am convinced that the fear that the municipalities could threaten Slovenia's entry into the euro area by borrowing loans to the extent set today. This can also be regulated in other ways, including by limiting the country as a whole and not by local communities as individual segments. We have also mentioned in the introduction that this area that we are regulating today, that this area needs to be regulated and that this law is a welcome solution in this area and in this segment, so we will support this law in the Social Democrats Group in spite of individual non-conclusion. We also estimate that the law has been given some improvements through consideration, which somehow convince us and direct us to this decision we have taken. Once again, I stress that this does not solve the financing of local communities, that we are still far from regulating this funding as we wish and, as it should be, we therefore rightly expect changes in this area and rightly expect a systemic solution. And another thing is, in this national assembly, we should also build trust between citizens and citizens or citizens and citizens in building trust in local self-government. Sometimes our appearances in this House also give the impression that everything is wrong on the local level, and it is not so far. In recent years, municipalities have made significant progress and local self-government is a counterweight to the centralisation of the country. Once we have managed to resolve this at the second level, at the landscape level, we will certainly achieve our common goal with the successful financing of local communities. Despite some concerns, the Group will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u276	Thank you, Mr. Conticy. Mr. Mikolič, would you like to speak on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u277	The New Slovenia parliamentary group - the Christian People's Party, will support changes and additions to the law on the financing of the municipality. How municipalities or local communities will breathe financially in the future certainly depends on two ministries, namely the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Ministry of Finance, and certainly also on all of us who are here, Members and Members of the National Assembly. Certainly, the existing law is not the happiest. It's definitely gonna have to be blown, if I say so myself. However, we certainly expect a lot in the Nova Slovenija Group, as I mentioned earlier. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u278	Only Mr. Mikolitch has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u279	from the new system law that the government is preparing for the future. Surely this new law will provide an equivalent opportunity for all municipalities to apply in Slovenia in the sense of general development, mainly in the area of the undeveloped area in the Republic of Slovenia. We expect that this law will also give this opportunity to all local communities, but let the 193 that are in operation today, and I also want to give the same passport or forecast for those who may arise in the coming period. In any case, the Nova Slovenija Group will support changes and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u280	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr. Squeakle, please. In your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u281	In my own name, I can't support the law. I can't support the law because I think it's a systemic error. A systemic error is because the proposed government service for local self-government and regional development and logically proposes the law as it is before us. And I, Madam Members and Members of Parliament, believe that, in particular, Members and Members of Parliament, who are mayors and mayors, cannot deny this law. But let me warn you. This law opens up too many and uncontrolled possibilities for the indebtedness of Slovenian municipalities at the time of the local elections, so it is logical that it is written as it is written, and it is logical that the ruling coalition four, five hours ago did not want data on the state of debt to come to the national assembly. You increase debt limits without knowing the state of debt in individual municipalities. You know, I would also say that I dream if someone told me that "a third of my debt" would be covered under the terms. Of course, and that makes sense. But it's not systemic. And the problem that will arise with this law on the financing of municipalities will be a very big problem - in particular the issue of the ruling coalition, which will have to explain very carefully in the coming months and years what is the move of the government deficit and the indebtedness of the state. And just as with the 2006 state budget, you will reduce the highway programme so that Dars will have to be in charge for 60 years, not for the next 20 years, that's how you do it in this law. In the opposition, as President of the Commission, I will monitor this very closely and draw attention to the mistakes you are making because you owe Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u282	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. In your own name? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u284	Excuse me, Mrs. Pechanova. Please allow Mrs. Pecan to explain his voice!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u285	I will support the law because this is at least a first step, in my view, to make it easier for the congregations to direct their own development. However, I am convinced that it is imperative that the continuation, it is said, of the amendment of the Law itself on the financing of municipalities, which will ensure a more independent status of municipalities, independence from the state budget balances, so that not only 19 municipalities of those living on their own incomes will not be able to live on their own, but it will be the opposite, perhaps 19 or 25 who will receive compensation, and all others from their own revenues will also be able to plan their development and their lives more autonomously and more independently of the state. I would also like to say that there has actually been a major leap in the self-containment of municipalities in 1998 when the income was increased by 5 percentage points from the former 30, which were fixed in 1994 to 35. At that time, the number of self-financing congregations increased significantly, substantially in the sense that it went from the former 15 to 25. However, that the current change in the appropriate consumption is, in fact, an increase in the appropriate consumption, has resulted in fewer autonomous municipalities in financing because the number of municipalities not receiving compensation has decreased but not increased. That's why we can't talk about a quality revolutionary leap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Since there are no more applications, we are going to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present. Seventy-four votes against two. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're moving on to 41. Period of the day, it's on casually loving matters. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for the seat of a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague, the six proposals of the Judicial Council for the election to a judicial function, the five proposals for decisions on the election of judges to work and the social courts, and the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a deputy member and the appointment of a deputy member of the Republic Election Commission. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First, a proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for the seat of a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. On the basis of Article 6 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the President of the Republic proposed that Professor Mirjam Škrk be elected to the seat of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic wish to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Dr. Nahtigal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u287	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposal of the President of the Republic. The material provided is based on a complex and highly rigorous procedure with all the professional opinions obtained. We believe that this is a well-founded proposal and that it is such a designation or function that strengthens the role of the Slovenian legal profession in international institutions, while at the same time allowing for an increased and enhanced flow of expertise and other international legal knowledge in this area and, of course, proposing an appointment to confirm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u288	Thank you, the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal also addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body of the mother. Does the rapporteur want a word from the committee? [[No, no, ……]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the representative of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, Master Borut Sajovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word! Representatives of the government and the Council of Justice and, of course, colleagues and colleagues! In the National Assembly today, we are conducting an unnecessary examination of both democracy and the rule of law when we vote on a candidate for a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. The Government and the Council of the Republic of Slovenia support the President's repeated and obviously good proposal, thus giving him great weight. Prof. Dr. Mirjam Škrk, professor of international law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u290	Mr. Saiovic, a moment. Please, it's like a beekeeper. Give us some peace so we can close this meeting, just as we deserve. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u291	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your intervention. Prof. Dr. Mirjam Škrk, a regular professor of international law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana and the judge, and the Vice-President of the Constitutional Court, Slovenian and international professional public, knows all the recognitions for her professional work. Some, as a weakness, read that she was judged by the Constitution and the law. We consider this to be good for her, and therefore we note that mistakes from the past should not be repeated, as in the previous vote on this candidate Parliament has been misused for indirect assault and pressure on the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law. In their work, constitutional judges are bound only to the Constitution and the law, not to the political guidelines. 134. Article 134 of the Constitution, which deals with the immunity of judges, clearly and unequivocally provides that no one involved in the trial may be held liable for the opinion given in the decision in court. The National Assembly may not, in its decisions, be a judge assessing the work of constitutional and other judges. I wonder how the judges will judge in the future if they are under the silent pressure of political power and who will even be able to run for the seats of the judges of international courts. The practice of today's authorities, which repeatedly criticises the work and decisions of the Constitutional Court, or, worse still, does not take them into account, is not good, as it does not help to protect constitutionality and legality, and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Today's decision is important and crucial. Those who fail to acknowledge and correct mistakes in the past are condemned to repeat them. We are confident, however, that in the interests of Slovenian democracy we will successfully pass the correctional exam tonight.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u292	Thank you, Mr. Saiovic. This concludes the debate and brings us to a vote. No other parliamentary group has been announced. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election, the State Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Franc Jazbec, mag. Borut Saiovic, Aurelio Yuri and Cyril Testen. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission on the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the President's table and by giving its name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 7.40 p.m. and will continue until 19.55 p.m. after the vote, please ask Members to assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We'll continue the session at 8:10.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u293	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. We're continuing our session. We continue with the adjournment of the 41st item, this is the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for the seat of a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. The vote was held at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 28 September 2005. 81 ballots were distributed, 81 ballots were delivered, 1 ballot was invalid, 80 votes valid. 60 Members and Members voted against 20 Members and Members of Parliament. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, by a majority of the votes of all Members, a candidate was elected as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague, Dr Mirjam Škrk. [[Let's hear it.]] Congrats! We are moving on to proposals for electoral decisions. The Council of Justice submitted six proposals to the National Assembly on the election to the judicial office of the District Courts in the District Court in Grosuplje, Kranj, Škofja Loka and Ljubljana. The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Sonje Ilovar Gradišar to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Grosuplje. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Marjana Grašič to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. The vote is under way. 65 Members and Members are present. 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for decisions on the election of Ms Alenka Erzar Zepič to the District Court in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present. There were 60 votes against. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Barbara Zakeljšek Humar to the District Court in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present. 61 votes against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Vande Polajnar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Škofja Loka. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 60 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Damjana Stele Ostrc to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. The vote is under way. I note that 67 Members and Members are present. There were 60 votes against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We have thus concluded the vote on the Judges and at the same time thank the Secretary of the Judicial Council, Mr Breznik, for his presence. Thank you very much. We are moving on to proposals for decisions on the election of judges of the judges of the labour and social courts. In its consideration of the meeting, the Commission presented proposals for decisions on the election of judges of the judges of the labour and social courts in Celje, Koper, Ljubljana and Maribor for a period of 5 years. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I shall put to the vote the motion for decisions on the election of judges of the jury of the working court in Celje. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am putting to the vote the motion for decisions on the election of judges of the judges of the working court in Cyprus. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on a proposal for decisions on the election of judges of the jury of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide on working disputes. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am putting to the vote a proposal for decisions on the election of judges of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide in social disputes. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We move on a proposal for decisions on the extension of the deputy member and the appointment of a deputy member of the Republic Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by a mandate-holder committee, namely, Mr Tomaž Glajar, to discharge the duties of a member's deputy and Mrs Ana Bilbian is hereby appointed as a member of the Republic Election Commission. There are no candidates for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member's deputy and the appointment of a member of the Republic Election Commission. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration. Yesterday, the National Assembly did not vote on the bill because it is a member of the Magi. Milan M. Cwickl expressed the view that the law was inconsistent and that the harmonisation procedure should be carried out. After examining the matter, I note that the possible non-conformity of the bill referred to by the Member is not due to the amendment adopted, and therefore it is not possible to implement the harmonisation procedure in such a case. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. [[Back-up advertising.]] An explanation of vote or a procedural proposal? Does Mr. Squeakl want to make a procedural proposal? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u294	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Yesterday we broke the point at the moment, or the chairman interrupted it at the time when we found that the proposed law, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, was inconsistent with Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As a matter of procedure yesterday, we have requested that the legislative and legal service, given that the President has not informed the President of the non-compliance, inform the Members whether this law is now inconsistent or not. In view of the opinion we have before us, of 25.8.2005, the proposed law is inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u295	Let me mention that, after consulting the legislative and legal service, there is no discrepancy that should be eliminated at this point in time with the harmonisation amendment, since there are two completely separate things, the law and the rules of procedure. Mr. Potch, can I see your procedural proposal? Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mr. President, do I have a permit, despite the objections?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u297	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Members of the Social Democrats will not be supported by the bill. The law contains good solutions for the use of minority language, for administrative inspection and also for electronic commerce. We are prepared to accept these good solutions at any time, but at the same time it contains solutions that are unacceptable. This is the solution in Article 2 that, in the event of the absence or restraint of the Minister and the Secretary of State, the Director may be authorised to represent the Government in the National Assembly. This solution is contrary to the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. This solution is of grave concern to the legislative competence of the National Assembly, as these issues are governed by the Rules of Procedure. This solution also constitutes a serious beginning of the rule of law in terms of relations between the government and the national assembly. I am sure, and we have also said this on the home work body, that we are prepared to address concrete issues and problems in resolving the government's situation when there is one minister in one ministry and one secretary of state to solve, but not in the way the government proposes. According to this logic, by means of which the National Assembly of Rules of Procedure adopts by a two-thirds majority of the Members present and the law by a simple majority, it can be achieved that all business provisions will gradually be phased out by the Government by means of proposals of different laws and will thus extend to the autonomy that the National Assembly also has in determining the rules of its conduct to the government's visa. I, colleagues and colleagues, ask and suggest that you reconsider such solutions, that you are aware that you are seriously interfering with the constitutional decision-making of the National Assembly, because the Rules of Procedure are decided by a two-thirds majority, which cannot be replaced by any law, and that we together unanimously reject this proposal from the Government in order to give the opportunity to seek negotiated solutions, which the Rules of Procedure require by a two-thirds majority not to take solutions that may still cause us all a headache. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u299	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Gantar, do you want to do this on behalf of the House? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll be brief. We will not support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration in the LDS Group. Yesterday, I extensively explained why some articles are good, we welcome them, a whole series of solutions go in the right direction, except one that actually degrades and subjugates the National Assembly of Executives, in a way that, for the National Assembly as a whole, can even be demeaning because it tries to repeal or deposit a document for which we or our predecessors have agreed with a two-thirds majority in this National Assembly. We can't take this for a while. We feel that this is not good, not for this national assembly or for any other composition, and that is why we will oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u301	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mr. Zagorac. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u302	Thank you for your word. Nor in the Slovenian National Party will we support a proposal for a law which we believe is still contrary to the rules of procedure. It would be good for coalition Members if you took the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and read your opinion on Article 2, where the Legislative and Legal Service says that this article is inconsistent with the provisions of Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and should be considered in particular to amend the Rules of Procedure rather than amending the Law on State Administration. It is absurd to adopt a law that is inconsistent with the act adopted by this National Assembly by a two-thirds majority. And finally, that's not the only reason we're going to vote against it. The provision that, in the event of the absence or detention of the Minister or State Secretary, the Director-General may substitute for their absence at the meetings of the State Assembly is certainly underestimating for that assembly. And if not today, you are voting for whether or not you will allow yourself to be able to interpret the laws here by a porter from a single ministry in the course of this mandate, as I said yesterday, then that is your decision. So please consider, if not otherwise, let us consider your honor and the honor of this congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u303	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u304	Thank you very much. It is certainly right for me to say that I will vote against this law in the defence of business provisions. I think that in the changes to the rules of procedure that we are planning to deal with at the next meeting of the Rules of Procedure Commission, it is also possible to address these issues in order to avoid the disagreement that we are going to make today. The National Assembly shall act under certain pre-defined rules. And these rules are set out in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure also govern relations in the parliamentary procedure between the Government, as an executive branch, and Parliament, as a legislative body. Very embarrassing, could use another term, is that when a national assembly applies the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopts a law in violation of its Rules of Procedure, its rules which we have reached here in this Parliament with a two-thirds majority of the Members present. I propose that, in order to avoid future inconveniences, we do so by amending the rules of procedure. The possibility is given us, and the condition for this is certainly to reject today this law, which affects an area that is adopted by another majority, as we now accept, that is, by a simple majority of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u305	Thank you, Mr. Conticy. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u306	Of course, I will reject this marriage, because this marriage actually has a long beard. In January of this year, we strictly respected the rules of procedure of the National Assembly in the final account, on the basis of which our President proposed to the Business Commission a change in the practice laid down in the Rules of Procedure, which of course was not adopted on the Business Commission, because this would mean that we are demolishing the National Assembly. Then what happened was what was foretold, but not by changing the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, but by law. The National Assembly came with a marriage. The law, which has actually brought many good solutions, but in this key story is a law which, in my personal opinion, we in the government, which was proposed as it was, of course, inappropriate to seek interpretation on the business committee, when the rules of procedure are perfectly clear. I must, of course, say that the presidents of the home work bodies will be in a very difficult situation when we have on the one hand the rules of procedure of the national assembly and on the other hand the law on state administration, which are contradictory. I therefore believe that today, as a minimum, this law must be rejected, to seek an appropriate solution if there is a will in this national assembly, but otherwise other means will have to be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u307	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that the coalition has a majority in the National Assembly, but in this case this majority is irrelevant if we are to support one solution, for which a sufficiently ordinary majority of the members of the Committee and then the general majority in the National Assembly, while the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which dictates how we work, require 60 Members. No majority in this National Assembly can go beyond the decisions and rules adopted by 60 Members, so I think it is a mistake to try to do so and we will have to vote against it because of this fact alone, that we can take something that is not good, but we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u309	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Given all the doubts that have been expressed, I believe that there are many more people I would like to say. Dear colleagues! We are honored by Mrs Tina Bitenc from the job we are actually talking about, but we are acting like she is not. Would it not be wise for Mrs Tina Bitenc of the Legal and Legislative Service to say whether she holds our claim of 25.9 or not? This will avoid debate for another hour, two or three. With all due respect for all of us, but we must respect the Rules of Procedure, and we must respect the legislative service and its opinion, so let me ask the lady if she can confirm or deny what is at the heart of the problem. This is a procedural proposal, if you can take it this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u311	That's right. We are in the stage of explanations of vote, therefore, it is impossible, but I will put this as a procedural proposal for a vote to give the legal service the opportunity to explain this situation. I am therefore putting to the vote the proposal to call the legal service and in this case give it an opportunity, exceptionally, to explain the matter. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present. 51 votes to 13. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted and I ask Mrs Bitenc to explain the situation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u312	Indeed, matters are quite clear. In its opinion, the legislature explained the problem raised by the proposed Article 2 of the bill, which you will now decide on. On the parental committee, this problem was attempted to be remedied by an amendment to delete this Article, which was not adopted. The substantive problem remains. We will, if this law is adopted as is now proposed in the decision-making process, introduce into the legal system two acts which are not entirely equivalent within the meaning of the type of act, two different legal arrangements. It's not clear how you're going to proceed. This certainly does not contribute to the rule of law. On the other hand, it is also true that it is necessary to know that Parliament rules its business autonomously and that whoever can speak in Parliament is certainly a right governed by Parliament itself. From this point of view, this issue at this point of the legislative process that we are now in is no longer a question that can be resolved constructively in the sense that anything else can be changed. That is why we, too, could no longer report non-compliance, because at this point in the legislative procedure, the legislative and legal service or the government informs the national assembly of the non-compliance between the individual provisions of the act or the provisions of other laws arising from the amendments adopted, which is not the content of the situation. I hope I've made myself clear. It is a substantive problem, but it can no longer be addressed constructively at this point, because in fact there is only a full vote left on the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u313	Thank you, Mrs. Beatenchev. Mr Petan spoke in explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u314	Thank you for your word. We refer to the Rules of Procedure, but I do not think that what we have done now was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm so sorry. I don't mind, but that's the way it is. Let's always be consistent. Yes, I agree, but it was not in accordance with the rules of procedure. Most of them just decided differently than they did according to the rules of procedure. Okay. But that's what we're talking about in the last case. I would like to say that I will support this proposal of the law in its entirety, which is before the vote, for the following reason. It does not hold against us to degrade the National Assembly for a simple reason. Following the previous government regulation, about 120 to 140 people could be represented by the government in the National Assembly. Given that the government has decided to be rational, that there is only one secretary of state in addition to the minister, the number of State secretaries has dropped dramatically from 54 to 15. This means that fewer people will now be able to represent the government in the National Assembly, that is to say that there can be no degradation of the National Assembly, and the formerly the degradation of the National Assembly, now perhaps the National Assembly will become more effective because fewer people can act against the National Assembly. That's one. Second. We will have to decide whether to have governments that behave rationally reduce the number of state secretaries, or, I don't know, because of the degradation of the National Assembly, we have, of course, wasteful governments that might appoint 40 more state secretaries in order to be equivalent to the previous regime. I am in favour of this option of having a rational government, and I will therefore support that proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u315	Thank you, Mr. Petan. Mr. Sok has the floor. Or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u316	Thank you very much. I will present Mr President with a procedural proposal, and I will suggest that you decide to take a five-minute recess before deciding whether or not to take a ten-minute recess to discuss it. All this has now been said is true, and this is the fact that the number of State secretaries has been greatly reduced and that this has led to rationalisation on the one hand, and on the other hand problems have arisen in the work of the Government and the National Assembly. However, it is also true that, after this Rules of Procedure, either the Minister or the Head of the Government Service, appointed by the Government or even his deputy, may be represented by a government minister at the meetings of the National Assembly, but it does not appear in the Rules of Procedure that this may also be the Director of the Government Service. I don't know if that's possible to interpret in that sense. Law enforcement said no. However, it may also be an interpretation in this direction, I do not know whether the chairman or the deputy government service can do so, but the director of a particular body in the Ministry cannot. This is now a difficult question. I'll suggest a five-minute break to make a deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u317	Thank you. We will complete the explanation of the voice, then the rest will be as required. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u318	Thank you, President. Colleagues, we're not in the face of any disharmony, we're in the face of a misalignment. If you decide to accept and vote that such a law as we are warned in writing and orally that it is inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure, you are consciously violating the Rules of Procedure, taking full responsibility for all the consequences that follow. With such evidence and arguments, there should be no doubt that this act is, of course, unacceptable. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u319	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u320	I will also vote against it, and I will also try to argue with what is new in this session. The National Assembly, Mr President, also thanks to you, allow me to say that it is robotic in its way of doing business. What does that mean? If you want to translate all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure into that they will not be discussed, you will have to somehow [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u321	It's Mr. School's explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u322	Of course, I'm talking about what will happen if you want the rules of procedure to be robotic at this point, who can go through this door and defend the views of the proponents and who can't. Then you will know the situation so that you will have to follow the rules of procedure. The provision of the law that we would adopt today will become a dead letter on paper. We can adopt this law, but we cannot implement it in this provision if we want to comply with the rules of procedure. This is a simple situation that requires, I will say, a healthy reasonable decision, which means to take a step back, to reject the law so that these things can be arranged in a reasonable way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u323	Thank you, Mr. Skull. Mr. Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u324	Thank you very much. I will support the marriage because I come from a simple fact that in this mandate we have relied on some kind of capriciousness. As far as we are concerned, the rules of procedure are fully corrected by this law. When we had a minister and four state secretaries earlier, we now have ministers and directors of Directorates. Acting as Director of the Directorate as previously served by the Secretary of State for Employment, State Secretary for Social Affairs. I'm interested in being the president of the working body, how I'm going to lead the session in a high-quality manner, so that we can take the best possible solutions. It is not in my interest that the law should be interpreted by the Secretary of State if it does not take over the area as explicitly controlled by the one covered by the professional content of this area, as previously, for example, by Mrs Belopavlovič, as previously covered by a colleague of mags in the field of war. The gendarmes and so on and we were able to conduct and implement quality debates in terms of the quality of the law. Now we are going capricious and the existing rules of procedure are only in a different title and nothing in the content. And it is a shame that we will make poor decisions on this capriciousness, less quality laws that we will all carry out sooner or later, but laws are not intended for positions or opposition, but are intended for citizens and citizens and all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u325	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u326	Thank you so much for saying that. I am also sure that there is no discrepancy between the rules of procedure and the law. The fact is that the Rules of Procedure in this provision, which refers to the representation of government representatives in the National Assembly, are adapted to the legal situation in force in the previous term. In this mandate, the legal situation with the state administration law has changed, so that we no longer have a crowd of State secretaries, but we have one secretary, and the directors of the Directorates cover the same substantive area as other secretaries of state. It is only a matter of terminology change and it is necessary to adjust the rules of procedure. Even in the past, when we had the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure were in force at that time, there was a change in the Assembly to the National Assembly, and there was still a time when the Rules of Procedure were adopted at the time of the Assembly, until this Rules of Procedure changed and adapted to the situation when we had a national assembly. It is exactly the same here, so that there is no disharmony, so there is no need to have any dilemma and fear before this law is legally harmonised in any way. Thank you. That's why, of course, I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u327	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u328	Thank you very much. This is how we conducted this debate on the working body. I'm not going to explain, but I'm only going to say the following. That you have rationalised the government in this mandate, ladies and gentlemen, is not true. The law was adopted in the previous term and you were obliged to respect and respect that each Minister of State has one Secretary. That's right, just don't brag about it with foreign feathers. Secondly, if we're talking about law as capricious, then the rule of law is over. That's possible. I know this is your way of thinking and working, but I'm warning you, it's not good. This is simply not good and it is not possible to think in this way. Thirdly, it is not a matter of terminology, but of substantive change, it may be less or more important for whom, only in the previous term, we have agreed that we want an independent, highly professional, independent state administration, which is also headed by the Directors-General, who are no longer political officials, but the most responsible independent experts in the administration. As a result, they have a different situation and are not merely a terminological change. For many, these may be small things, and these are not small things in the system. Let's think about it and at least not blind ourselves to doing something legally unacceptable. However, you have a majority, gentlemen, and in the end you will adopt a law whereby Parliament no longer decides on the law, but adopts what rules instead of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u329	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u330	Thank you for your word. On this issue, I would like to point out that it is important for us to remain, above all, a Parliament. And certainly, if this law is passed, there will be problems in Parliament in the process of dealing with laws where there will be government directors, whether we will even start a substantive debate. Regardless of my opposition, however, it is important for us to try to act constructively or to make the decisions that we urgently need in Slovenia. If we are wasting time to determine whether the Director can apply as a government representative or not, of course this is not a constructive debate, it is a waste of time and, above all, it is and it will be the preservation of the rule of law. The opposition will certainly draw attention to this problem all the time we face it. I would therefore like to stress once again that, above all, democracy is an important procedure. That is why it is also a Parliament, and that is why we also have our own procedure, which is enshrined in the Rules of Procedure and is not possible. Especially not on such key issues as the one we are talking about today. If we want some solutions on average, of course, far from democracy, it is far from the rule of law. I don't think we can even talk about dictatorship. It's anarchy. Anarchy is certainly not welcome for Slovenia, so I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u331	Thank you, Mr. Webra. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u332	Thank you. Now I really don't know, because it's hard, because we're all tired. But people of God, we've all expressed that the content we're talking about isn't bad, but it's illegal! Hell, we're making politics out of this again. The Constitution is a fundamental act. The Rules of Procedure are the essence of our work, and we are essentially writing laws. I take it we're not going to object to ourselves, are we?Oh, my God! We're not going to break our rules of work, are we?Oh, my God! Mrs Bitencheva has told us clearly and loudly to all of us who are still here. Let us be smart, however, and let us stop, at least at this point respect ourselves, the rules of procedure that we have adopted, and let us follow it. As far as the content is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, and capriciousness, I will not mention the persons, all who work in the working bodies, all who visit them or most of them, you know that the most important and important problem is the phrase: why there is not a working body meeting of this and this government representative, why there is no government representative at the European Affairs Committee, why there are no government representatives at the meeting, why there are no government representatives. Listen, the government can't take it as its own and move it and say it, because I don't have to, you'll do as we do. No, it'll be the other way around. The government will do as the legislative branch of the government will say as long as the Slovenian National Party is in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u333	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u334	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. I would like to explain my own voice, which, of course, will be the voice against this law. I wonder if the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which we adopted in 1991, is still in force in this country. If applicable, then it is also stipulated that the National Assembly shall determine its way of dealing with the Rules of Procedure, which shall be adopted in accordance with a particularly difficult procedure and with the prescribed majority. So, say, for example, that the National Assembly is still the highest legislative authority. Here today we have heard that this proposal is contrary to the rules of procedure. If this is not enough for us to be aware of our responsibilities and also our integrity as members of this Parliament, then God help us. It is clear to everyone, except perhaps some who say that we are going capricious, that the procedure is the queen of Parliamentism and democracy. If we adopt this law, we can no longer just talk about the degradation of this Parliament, but in some ways we can talk about the dismantling of this Parliament. Today, for example, there is no representative, even today, when the Minister was aware that we would talk so much about this burning problem, he is not here. Who's representing him here today? Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice? Interesting! Are you going to force the opposition to re-invest any funds, legal remedies to the Constitutional Court, where the same minister has already been taught. We will certainly vote against this because we do not want to participate in this disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u335	Thank you, Mrs. Bebler. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u336	In view of the fact that I was on the parental committee that dealt with this law, I myself advocated and supported the proposal with the following argument. As chairman of the committee, I regularly meet with the opposition's remarks, above all, that there are no relevant government representatives, but we know, of course, that many times there are directors who are better aware of a particular issue and who can explain it. As I understood that the opposition's opposition was primarily aimed at preventing directors from covering or answering questions concerning the ministry's governance policy, I must say that, in the narrow sense of the word, what is the ministry's policy, I cannot agree. The director of the Directorate, at the direction of the Minister and the Secretary, must certainly know and be responsible for policy in the professional sense of the Ministry's work, and this is what we are actually interested in. It is true that there is a formal problem between the formulation in the Rules of Procedure and the formulation of this bill. However, if we want to approach as positively as possible and try to find a solution, because obviously changing the rules of procedure is a much harder way to find a solution for better communication between the government and the national assembly, I thought that the directors of the Directorates could be considered in some way as former secretaries and that such a law could be supported. However, I am aware that, as President of the working body, I will still be bound by the rules of procedure. And I don't think the adoption of the law itself prejudges that I, as the president of the working body, will simply not serve to lay down the rules of procedure, according to my opinion of course. That's why I don't think it's an issue if we support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u337	Thank you, Mr. Bones. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u338	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! There are several reasons why I will vote against it. Let me count three. One is that the Rules of Procedure, which was passed by a two-thirds majority, would be voted here by the general majority. So we're working against the rules of procedure. The second reason that I think is important, and which I often see in these bills, is that there is another cowardly egg planted within good solutions. So if we're going to make a good decision, we have to take the bad, the bad. And the third reason I find purely pragmatic is this. Like the government, government representatives have not attended many meetings so far, and they will not now. Doesn't matter who doesn't, does it?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u339	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u340	Thank you for your word. When I, as a representative or Vice-President of the Internal Policy Committee in the previous term, represented our National Assembly in reporting on progress in the adoption of the acquis, one of the fundamental issues we have done with the career system in the implementation of the official system was what we have done. It was then, I would say, an initial phase that ended with the adoption of the law referred to by the leader of our parliamentary group, by which the important functions of the state administration were intended for the highest-skilled officials and experts and for the political functions of only one State Secretary and one Minister. This also means that, at the time of the amendment, the Secretary of State must offer a derogation. This is also a significant difference between the Director and the Secretary of State, as far as details are concerned. What surprises me and why I will vote against it, even though the answer to this question is, what will be the result, is almost known, is this. Parliamentary questions were answered and the Government sought to obtain concentrated responsibility. I am afraid that the government is trying to obtain a concentrated responsibility at the expense of the National Assembly. What we are doing now is degrading, this is subjugating the National Assembly with some rules that it is already presupposed that they will then have to change in the National Assembly. As an elected Member of the National Assembly, I am not taking the floor in this way, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u341	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Anyone else? Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u342	Thank you for saying that again. One of the predecessors said that the Directors-General could be regarded as some kind of secretary of state. Let me explain where the rationalisation of the government happened. Can you explain this to me? This is another reason why I will vote against it. You get involved, you start lying to yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u343	Thank you. As I see it, there are no more applications for explanations of vote. Mr. Potts, you've already explained your voice. I'm suspending the session, and we'll continue it five minutes after 9:00, 21.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u344	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. I ask the motioner to take a break if he wishes to explain what has been done.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members and Members! Of course, the proposalr's wish is clear. He was kind of trying to help the National Assembly. We are in a situation where we have one minister, one secretary, but we have the Director-General and, in our opinion, the Rules of Procedure, as stated, that the Directors-General should not participate in the meetings of the National Assembly and the meetings of working bodies. I suggest that there is no dilemma that the ruling coalition is in breach of the rules of procedure, that we take some time to consider this matter, so I propose that we postpone the decision again, namely, that the decision be taken by Tuesday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u346	You heard the procedural proposal. There is no debate on that. I'm making a procedural motion for a vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members present and 58 votes against 5. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I interrupt this item on the agenda, which we will continue on Tuesday after the end of the vote. I am also adjourning the 9th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
