ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u1	Your Honor! I begin the continuation of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Aurelio Juri, Ivan Yelen, Milan Petek, Mag. Majda Potrat, Lucky Friend, Bostian Zagorac, Franz Kangler. We're moving to 8. Period of the day - it's on a defensive proposal for a law on trade change, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Here you go, Minister, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u2	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, the new Trade Act is linked to a whole set of events that go primarily into the mandate of the previous government and have also fallen on the table of our ministry, following a decision by the Constitutional Court, and unfortunately also after the social partners have not actually been able to agree on a solution that would, on the one hand, satisfy both economic representatives, employers' representatives and, of course, employees' representatives. For I believe that the opening time of trade is a matter that is part of social dialogue, which is involved in the matter of negotiation and agreement and less on the political scene. Since, of course, it was not possible to do so, since no social agreement had been reached, the government had to make a proposal for a law. However, it is in Parliament to accept it as it is to correct it in accordance with the majority will of Members and Members. I must point out that the government has followed fully the Slovenian and Slovenian referendum will in preparing a new trade law that talks about opening times on Sunday, and of course has taken account of the constitutional court's direction. This, of course, significantly limits the opening time of trade on Sundays, which is also the majority will of people, elected beneficiaries in Slovenia. I believe that this also makes certain illogicalities and, in fact, the solutions that everyone is assessing today, including employees, including union representatives, as well as the government - certain solutions that are on the table are poor. However, because of the need to know that the Slovenian economy needs to develop, it must become more competitive that it has to compete with economic operators in our immediate surroundings, so that, in short, this economy must not end up responding to the needs of users, the needs of customers, the needs of the people in need of these services. And if we consistently read the referendum question and take into account the referendum will, then we know that also trade in tourist centres, such as in winter in Kranjska Gora, summers in coastal resorts, centres, even smaller shops and also shops that do not have employees, where both employers and workers in the same person, unfortunately, these trades should not be open in certain cases if the referendum will of people is consistently taken into account. That is why there is a situation in which, in the absence of a policy between the social partners - I speak here in general, so the government, which now has this responsibility to propose solutions, and the national assembly to accept it - is in an unenviable situation. It will weigh whether people's referendum will be consistently taken into account and, on the other hand, between the economic initiative, the logic of the competitive economy and the logic of the economic initiative in general. Of course, I want a lot of success in this House!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Minister, honourable Director-General, distinguished representatives, the President and the Secretary-General of the Trade Workers' Union, who are on the balcony, respected colleagues and colleagues and others present! The Committee on the Economy, as the parent working body at its 7th emergency meeting, held on 2.12.2005, addressed the proposal for a law amending the Trade Act. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Economic Commission for the State Council and a number of written comments and warnings from interested organisations. After a truly extensive and thorough discussion of all members of the committee, representatives of the government with the minister in charge, the representative of the legislative and legal service, representatives of the union and others present, the Committee unanimously adopted the amendment, which is included in the amended law. At the meeting, two issues remained open and, at the same time, a working agreement had been adopted to ensure that, until the meeting, it was said to date, we were looking for appropriate arrangements for decision-making at the assembly. These two questions are as follows: for the first time, can ten weeks open also closed sales centres? This is the content of the first indent of the amendment. And another question is how to ensure the possibility of Sunday trading intended mainly for tourists and visitors to tourist and other sights and events and events and events, and so on. That is how the four amendments have been tabled, which we will also discuss and hopefully decide today. Before us Members and Members is objectively the greatest responsibility, and I thank the Minister for wishing us much luck and intelligence in this regard, but the government will not be able to avoid this unpleasant and difficult issue. In addition to being responsible, there is also a very difficult task. On the one hand, we are obliged to respect the referendum will and decision and, on the other hand, we are also responsible for the economic, social, especially employment, tourism, legal and other possible negative consequences. These consequences and all possible situations were obviously not taken into account or could not be taken into account and envisaged in determining the referendum question and this is one of the problems. When looking for solutions that would cause as little damage as possible, job losses and other negative consequences, we benefit from an opinion or a public statement from the trade union. After all, the union was the initiator of the referendum and it can thus interpret the purpose or purpose of the referendum most reliably. I would conclude by reiterating the call made by the Committee in its debate, and I think that we could do so today, in the final examination of this law, when it comes to the social partners of trade unions, workers in trade, employers, it is said that, with the cooperation of the Government, even after the adoption of this law and its implementation, with the start of next year, there will be an agreement and normalisation of operations and operations in this area and, of course, those urgent protection of workers and workers in trade, consumers, economies and all other stakeholders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matej Lahovnik has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members, Mr President, Mr Minister! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree with the opinion of the Minister. The solutions proposed are really bad. The problem is that they have been proposed by the Government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which must take full responsibility for them. The second fact we point out is that those who have recently advocated the fact that trade must be closed on Sundays are now faced with the fact that they are responsible for the economic situation in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the perspective is now completely different and very problematic issues are coming to the fore. The basic question is whether we are obliged to respect the referendum will of people and the answer is clear - of course we are. The referendum will is as it is, but of course we see that it is in this duality of law. On the one hand, the law mentions a number of exceptions, and even coalition MPs advocate that the cores of the old markets, health resorts, camps and so on should be included in this. But even a number of these weren't on the referendum issue. The other thing that appears to be is spatial limitations. At first it was said that stores of up to 80 square meters could be opened under certain conditions, now this limit is 200 square meters. If the argument of the coalition, which was once an opposition, is that working on Sundays breaks family relations, that children are left to themselves, we ask in the Liberal Democracy, whether mothers in those stores that have a square of less than 200 square feet do not have children. There, those shops, those mommies in those stores, they're less valuable than those in the hypermarkets. This is how the paradox of setting different limits is most evident. The fact is that no serious "cost benefit" analysis, cost-benefit analysis has been carried out, and what such a law means. Not only for Slovenian trade, but for a whole range of other industries, for tourism, not least, if you want, also for social issues, for family relations and so on. This shows the paradox, on the one hand of that referendum, which cost us a lot of money, and now this law, where all Members - and it is right to pour ourselves pure wine - with various exceptions, we try to resolve what we can do at all. The whole type of restrictions are necessary, but of course we can ask ourselves if they are in line with the spirit of the referendum. One of these has been added, which we do not oppose and we will support, that the shops in the Roma centers should be open, of course, because there is an opportunity to buy first, and then you get a ride, in principle, all in one place. On the other hand, the souvenir shop in front of the Postojna Cave and the Predjama Castle will still be closed on Sundays, although it is a destination visited annually by more than half a million tourists and visited by more than 5,000 people only on August Sundays. In short, we still have a bunch of open questions and we wonder what kind of marriage this is. I agree with the Minister, it's a bad marriage. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we believe in a free economic initiative, we believe in the right to choose, both consumers and employees, employees, those that cannot be realized by some universal law. We believe in the social partnership that the best solution that employers and employees would adopt together, in accordance with the agreement, and we believe, of course, that the law, as it is, will harm the development of tourist destinations and the economy in the Republic of Slovenia. We won't and we can't oppose the referendum will of the people [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u7	Time is running out, Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u8	Of course, we will not and cannot take responsibility for bad marriage, so we will not support the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have always supported the negotiations between workers and employers on the opening times of trade. We expected, however, an agreement to meet the expectations of employees, traders as well as consumers and local communities with regard to exceptions will be reached. We had a referendum where voters and voters clearly expressed their will to limit the opening time that must be passed into law. In the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, as in the time before and after the referendum, we believe it is important to build a country of socially responsible capital, capital that will be able to assess what is acceptable, even in terms of social cohesion and the sensitivity of society. Now that we are a member of the 25 family, we must face the fact that we, too, have a free economic initiative and, on the other hand, a public benefit that extends this platform into a market-based social economic initiative or economy. And regulating working time in trade activities is one of these areas that need to be regulated by legislation on the basis of this broader platform. So, not just profits, but employees' rights. There is no single model in Europe, so the opening time decision is primarily our own arrangement. In the Group of Social Democrats, we still feel that we regret that we have not been prepared or able so far, but we are thinking of the State Assembly, the government, the departmental ministry, as well as employers and employees, to look for some possibilities for common solutions, even after the referendum, in view of the changed situation, because then our decision, even today in the National Assembly, would be much easier. For this reason, the compromise proposal or amendment with the first-signed Ferry Horvato is the only acceptable and prudent broad compromise solution in this regard, given the still major differences. And if this amendment is adopted, the Social Democrats will also support this law. We also reject all the opinions that still appear today that the referendum is not formally binding anymore, but it is a political and moral commitment. In fact, the government and this national assembly have been and are still responsible today for the exercise of the expressed referendum will through a legal solution. Apologize to the fact that there was a deal between employers and employees is worthless. It would be worth it if the government, as a novelist, actively encouraged and participated in this dialogue. It is also true that the views of some former members of the opposition, who are now in the government and in position, have changed considerably in this last year, in the sense defined by the new Minister Dr Damjan, who said in hiring on this issue, quote: "The Sunday Work in Trade Act has caused or will cause much damage, unnecessary damage. However, as far as I am concerned, the situation is such that the referendum will of people cannot be ignored, but it will probably have to be settled in the future, as many countries are now talking about longer opening times. Countries that are more flexible in this area also have more employment in trade activities, so this is not necessarily negative." End of quote. In this quotation, those who were two years ago were to say the exact opposite. Social Democrats believe that, on the one hand, if it is the interest of capital, the interest of the consumer, on the other hand, it is also the rights of workers to normal workers and rest. In short, it is a question of rights that Europe's market social economy has been building over the centuries and has also built and incorporated into acceptable standards of social life. Why don't we have them in Slovenia. It is also true that this is resolved in these same traditional environments in a genuine partnership of dialogues, in which case dialogues between workers and employers in the trade sector. Unfortunately, in Slovenia we will not be able to witness genuine social dialogues based primarily on the logic of giving, but will only be calculated for a while by the logic of authoritarianism and by the intimidation of difficult economic conditions, which require a tendency only to higher profits, employees or workers, but only as a means of achieving this logic. So, something like that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u11	Time's up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u12	As is the case, the process of reforming workers' participation in business management. [[...]] Once again, in the parliamentary group, if the amendment of Ferri Horvat is adopted, we will support this law, otherwise not.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor, on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. And hello, well-respected minister. Well-known Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. We've got a new trade law coming up. As we know, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia passed the outcome of the previous legislative referendum, which was held in 2003. The determination of the limitation of the squares of shops in specific locations, which were to be opened on Sundays and holidays, was subject to a constitutional assessment. This will allow us to decide today on the changes to the original definition of dispute, as well as the amendments tabled. For us, in the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian People's Party, this matter is very important because the Law on Amendments or the Law on Amendments to the Law to Eliminate Sunday's Work of Commerce, with certain exceptions, was tabled on our side, specifically, by Mag. Janez Petty Officer. Although we are now in this National Assembly as a coalition partner in a different role than we were years ago, our position towards Sunday's work in stores remains unchanged and will remain so in the future. The undisputed will of the electorate in the previous legislative referendum not to favour the unlimited opening of shops has only strengthened our commitment to a six-day business week. Although more by chance, in the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian People's Party, we believe that it is also appropriate to discuss this law again right now, in December, at the time of the Advent, at a time when Christmas-new holidays are approaching. Why? Unfortunately, for months now, December is the biggest proof of how consumption is becoming more and more the philosophy of our lives. We are threatening our own values with cold shopping. Shopping has become a form of our religion to fill our spiritual void. In these days, different banks offer 4-5 million credits for a cheerful December. And we're guided by the commercialers' ads, we don't judge by our own consciences, and I'm happy to buy what traders want to sell. And here, of course, the Sunday that is supposed to be for rest, for an in-depth meeting, a family day, does not know the exception. Like every Sunday of the year, it was no different yesterday. I went to see what was going on Sunday at one of the biggest shopping malls. And how quickly can you conclude that Sunday’s family visits to shopping malls have become our lifestyle, ritual, or ritual, as you would like. The law, which is to enter into force in the future, will allow them to be more relaxed for weeks, and will allow employees, in particular sellers, the right to rest and dignity and a justifiable Sunday family life. In Novi Slovenija we stand for orderly families that will ensure a brighter future for the Slovenian people. The topic of the novelty, in addition to the previously defined definition that trade in emergency life needs can be opened by 10 weeks a year, redefines the size and location of those shops that are expected to open on Sundays and holidays. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that exceptions are justified, mainly due to economic interests, but of course these solutions must follow in the first place the referendum decision and the decision of the Constitutional Court. On the basis of the analysis of the size of shops in Slovenia, the Ministry of Economy has prepared a proposal that the area of the sales space of these shops should be up to 200 square metres. Trade to these sizes is expected to be 84% in Slovenia. Well, it would certainly be interesting to see how much of these shops are in these special locations, namely petrol services, other urban and trekking cores, natural cultural historical and Roma centres, ski centres, marinas, camps, health resorts, hospitals, hotels, airports, border crossings and train and bus stations. We will also support these exceptions in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! We are considering the Trade Act, in the work relating to the time of business of shops. This is an article that we formulated or adopted in the National Assembly a good year ago, and the Constitutional Court later annulled this article, since the area of the emergency life articles which could be opened without restriction on Sundays and by law of certain holidays was determined by arbitration. This time, the Ministry of Economy has prepared a new Article 17 proposal, which provides that on Sundays and by law, all shops whose total sales area is not more than 200 square metres and which are located in specific locations may be opened with the law of certain locations. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the bill. In doing so, we support the amendment, which provides that, without restrictions, open sales can be up to 200 square metres of sales area in some specific locations. At the same time, with this amendment, which we have also unanimously supported on the Committee on the Economy, I think it gives a positive shift in the sense that the referendum will is still satisfied and at the same time we are trying to get at least partially closer to entrepreneurial time and at the same time to consumer time. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we find that these limited areas, which are set at 200 square metres, are appropriate, as they would be determined on the basis of an appropriate analysis and, consequently, also appropriate in relation to the Constitutional Court's decision. In preparing this proposal ourselves, we face a number of complications. On the one hand, we are tied to the clearly expressed will of the people in the referendum, to the decision of the Constitutional Court, and, on the other hand, by narrowing the referendum decision, we are undoubtedly restricting certain traders to the exercise of their activities. We are certainly in a very insurmountable situation, even if we consider that we have set ourselves a very clear goal in Slovenia, that we want rapid economic development, that we want to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in line with government reforms, and that one of Slovenia's key objectives is the intensive development of tourism. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that all these circumstances must be taken into account. We also believe that the complementary bill proposed by the Committee on the Economy, with the amendment mentioned above, is a solution which, in the light of the referendum decision and other circumstances, is still acceptable, which means that the referendum will of the people can still be taken into account and at the same time satisfy the economic initiative, which I think is very important and at the same time the will of consumers. In short, I am deeply convinced that both the government and the Parliament are in a relatively very difficult situation, and I believe that, according to the rule, with the great ease of adopting such a and different referendum, it should be this, railway or any other, where the outcome is one way or another. And in principle this decision, whatever it is, comes back to the government again, to the National Assembly. And, of course, I would therefore allow myself to appeal from this city to all the responsible policies in this country, which we are committed to, but we are always trying to find a compromise solution in these stories, so that this referendum will, the decision does not come, we are finally facing it here today - how we now take into account the referendum will, how we take account of economic development, the economic initiative and people's will and finally the consumer's will. Did anyone ask them what the will of the Slovenian consumer is today? Probably nobody. In short, I am convinced that, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are for a compromise solution, which has already been pointed out on the Committee on the Economy itself, which had to, once again, take into account the referendum will of the people, while at the same time it must make possible the entrepreneurial will in the part where it would indicate that it would not prevent economic development and damage to the entrepreneurial initiative, particularly in those parts which are linked to this activity, which are linked to jobs that are linked to business-related stories. Of course, I strongly object to that. However, I believe that such legislation will be adopted today, which will be so, at the will of the people, at the will of the entrepreneurial initiatives and, ultimately, one that will be of benefit to each other, the other and the third. I know this is difficult, but with good will we can find such a compromise in today's law, which is ready to be a wolf full and a goat whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party or the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, ministers, representatives of the government! In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the proposal for a law amending the Trade Act. This has been clear since the first day we discussed this marriage. In fact, the content is completely simple. The opening time of trade is absolutely a matter of agreement between the owner of trade, between sellers, among consumers, is a matter of social dialogue and is a matter of dialogue between trade unions. And this is where the story ends, of course, when we say that we have a market economy. Secondly, I think that reforms that are very sharp and difficult in the field of economy are at least in some way contrary to the proposed law. Third time. Today I was called from village villages, from your home, where there is a private shop and they feel hurt because they will have to keep the shop closed because - literally I will tell you - it seems to me that the older people living in village hamlets on Sundays and do not have transportation to the valley go after the mass - literally so was said - into the store in this village, because they do not have children living with them who would take them to the valley and now they will not be able to. Also, that merchant or merchant in the village hamlet loses four times the income from Sunday's opening time. But no one asked them either. Last but not least, how many people, respected colleagues and colleagues work on Saturdays and Sundays? Knappy, for example. Three shifts a day and a night, Saturdays and Sundays, and the builders, and the cops, and the firemen, and someone else. In this case, the law is discriminatory for the Slovenian National Party. If the seller and the owner of the trade were to agree, I am sure that it is the great will of many sellers and sellers to work on Sundays, of course, with absolute respect for the legislation that requires special payment to sellers and sellers for Sunday work. There's no excuse here at all. Everyone, a private person or a partner or a state owner, is obliged to comply with the law, and is obliged to pay Sunday work differently than normal work. Sometimes it's a little awkward because we don't compare such activities with productive activities, but even though it's a productive activity, which, of course, with a more quality and time-consuming work, also earns more money, not only to the owner, but also to the workers and workers. And finally, they may be threats, they may be extortion, the law does not talk about it, and we will not talk about it, but who will be responsible for the possible dismissals of workers because of, of course, every producer, producer or other activity has a precise plan of how many workers create rational income, i.e. simple and widespread reproduction. Who will be responsible for those people who will lose their jobs? Once again, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, such activity must remain legally open if the will and agreement between the owner and between workers, between consumers, between social partners and between unions is to be made by the person who wants and wants to work on Sundays. Those who don't want to, they can close. We are co-signatures of the amendments tabled by the Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and I hope that at least some of the elements contained in these amendments in the National Assembly will be taken into account, of course, for the benefit of all those who will be affected by the consequences of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Members of the DeSUS Group would like to assist the government or the ministry in correcting or supplementing this law, for which, as we have heard today, we all feel that it is not best not to use harsh terms. In this way, we want to contribute to the majority of our support for the amendment, which we have also signed. Let me say that the amendment has been signed by the Members of the five parliamentary parties, only by two. Of course, there will be considerable problems in this regard, for some are more committed to one another than to others. In any case, however, the law is adopted under special circumstances. One of these special circumstances is the time pressure we went into because we heard that social dialogue was not successful. Another circumstance that is pressing is the referendum will. But by the way, let me mention that people's will can sometimes be misleading. The third is a decision of the Constitutional Court to be respected. And there are a whole range of other circumstances for which both the government and we advocate to be established in the medium and long term, but they go with what is proposed. In particular, we have in mind the part of the reform strategy that we support, and it would be difficult to find the points of reference between, for example, the development strategy of Slovenia, between the reform proposals, between the coalition treaty and the law that we have before us. Of course, the government is in trouble, probably because it is difficult to direct this ship between Scylla and the Caribbean, but today we will have to decide in some way. What the government wants is to ensure in writing is this: respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, and we can say in hesitation that it may be a little too rigid; it wants to respect the referendum will, and we must ask ourselves what the reasons for the referendum were, or economic, social or ideological. The economic effects will not be noticed, the social effects will be counterproductive, so they remain only valuable or world-class visual reasons for the referendum and for the amendment of this law. The government also says it wants to ensure the highest possible competitiveness of Slovenian tourism. All tourist organisations, all those who are involved in tourism, have sent us an appeal, but let us save us from this non-competitiveness. Furthermore, the government says that it is seeking greater freedom of economic initiative and that this law will certainly not succeed. Nor will we achieve a high guarantee of public benefit, because some of the public benefits, social security and so on will be weakened once we adopt the law. And the government or proposer also says that it wants a decent market opportunity for entrepreneurs and a quality offer for consumers. This will also be very difficult to ensure by this law. Among other things, because consumers are tourists, and especially tourists on Sundays and holidays. But we already have a sticker that we're going to put on the store that says "on Sundays and holidays closed." Of course, all that we have talked about so far does not mean that we should develop our economy more quickly in order to promote our economy. We therefore feel that it would be right if from the past, as it were, from tradition, as it also says, from the traditional work of the day off, we returned to modern times. The Enlighteners called back to nature, and we are calling back to modernity, back to the logical economic initiative, and so we say, leave the trade alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Stane Pajk, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending the Trade Act takes into account the referendum will of the electorate. The referendum question was whether you were in favour of the proposal for a law amending the Trade Act establishing that shops for emergency life items are open up to 10 weeks a year, except for petrol services, shops in hospitals, hotels, airports, border crossings and railway and bus stations with a limited area that can be opened without restriction. 256,461 voters voted in favour, 57.53%. This proposal also takes into account the instructions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Decision No. UI-131/04/28. This proposal of the law is at least interfering with the constitutional right to free economic initiative. The proposed arrangement provides for exceptions to the general rule, the operation of shops. These are shops with a sales space of up to 200 square metres, regardless of sold assortment in the law of certain locations. This also follows the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to develop the competitiveness of small enterprises and to ensure the high competitiveness of Slovenian tourism. Consumers are provided with adequate and quality supplies and traders have a decent market opportunity to carry out their activities. The profits of small traders obtained during the day’s work are quite a share of their income, thus giving them a marketable chance of survival. One of the main objectives of the proposed law is also to ensure that employees in trade take advantage of the day off which is traditionally free in these places. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be led on the basis of the amendment review, of 16.12.2005. You have before you an overview of the amendments that have been tabled. The amendments tabled are four and we will deal with each amendment individually. By initiating the debate or by putting to the debate article 1 of this amendment a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Ferri Horvat, the amendment of the SDS, NSN and SLS groups, that is the second amendment. The amendment of the group of Members with the first signed by Dr. Matei Lahovnik is the third amendment and the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed by Dr. Mark Pavli. We are starting with a debate on all the amendments, and please, if you will tell us in the debate on which amendment your debate relates. The first was Mr. Ferry Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will try to present the essential content of the amendment signed by the 14 Members and Members of the five groups of Members, and I would therefore, indirectly, without violating the rules of procedure of the hopes, also respond to or express my position on the other amendments. As we have unanimously adopted the amendment and the amended bill on the Committee on the Economy together, I would be very pleased if, in the course of the day or if it is not possible today, but at least tomorrow, depending on when the third is to be dealt with, even as much as possible, on the basis of arguments, we should decide on what is most appropriate, which means, the smallest deviation from the referendum replies and, of course, what will be the least of the damage that has been pointed out in the debate with a number of comments. First of all, the first indent relating to the sales centres. As I have already reported on behalf of the Committee, we have discussed this issue quite a bit, whether the actual referendum replies restrict or prohibit the opening or operation of sales centres for ten weeks. They are said to be under the same regime as other trades for emergency life items, or not. I must say that, after further consultations I have carried out, both with the representatives of the Ministry of the Economy and others, as well as with the trade unions, we also have written confirmation of the trade union representatives, their statements of 16.12., the intention of the referendum candidates was not to have the sales centres closed or that they should not have been opened on Sundays. For this reason, I propose this amendment with the aim of not moving too far from the referendum will, but in particular to prevent the economic damage that would arise, certain jobs would certainly be lost. In addition, to prevent the fact that there would be, in fact, an unequal situation, independent trade in emergency life items and also selling centres where there are also such trades and there is already a possibility of a constitutional dispute. The second indent concerns tourism. In the case of tourism, i.e. the tourist centre’s dictatorship, this is the second indent that speaks of stores up to 200 square metres, the main point on the committee was that it was not sufficiently defined in this text, which was then before us, what are tourist centres and that there is a danger of this being misused. And that's why we left this question open then, we said, we need to continue to study it, see the arguments "for", "against" and then decide and propose amendments. In this amendment, which I propose as first-signed, we have decided on the dictates of the tourist centre. However, what is very important is to avoid the concerns that have been partly justified on the Committee in order to abuse this is now an important addition at the end of this amendment or last paragraph, which more precisely defines what tourist centres are, when it says, "are areas defined by local communities as tourist centres on the basis of developmental orientations," and it is essential that there be no will or abuse, which was then expressed by fear, "after the prior agreement of the Ministry responsible for tourism, and include closed areas whose constituent parts are natural and cultural sights, sports facilities, cinemas, theatres, opera houses and sacral buildings." It is also possible to list the list that we have discussed and proposed by the three parliamentary groups. However, colleagues and colleagues, it has already been demonstrated in the debate, and practice has also shown that there is always a danger that something is accidentally released when it is listed. Also in this title - it would be acceptable for me personally if it was possible to list so much that we really capture everything - we see that it has been released, say, a cemetery. And we have a subsequent extensive letter from the utilities and others who run the cemetery. And it would be really pointless, not just for economic reasons, but also for human and other reasons, not to allow the sale of candles, flowers and other, when most people visit the cemetery. I'd like to say this in terms of tourism. Any restriction on the operation of shops in tourism intended mainly for tourists, and to a large extent for foreign tourists, would be economically harmful, would certainly also have an impact on the reduction of the number of employees and would have an impact on the poverty of the tourist offer. In fact, an important part of the tourist offer is everywhere in the world, where they want to make and gain more foreign exchange inflows through tourism, that, in addition to other forms of offer, hotels and hospitality, they try to sell as many goods as possible that are of interest to tourists. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, the purpose of the referendum's candidates and the referendum itself was not to close these shops in tourist areas on Sundays. After all, if I recall that if we look at the latest results in tourism, we cannot be satisfied with them at all. And such a restrictive measure would further exacerbate the situation and opportunities for tourism in economic, social and regional development, as much tourism is taking place in less developed border areas. And the third indent, which we agreed on and unanimously decided on the Committee on the Economy, was the third indent, which excluded a specific type of trade from the 200 square metres limit. These are shops at airports, border crossings, camps, marinas and health resorts. These stores are relatively small by number and are very important for economic effects. Especially for passengers, tourists, transit passengers and others. And the fact is that the analysis requested from the Ministry of Economy, even on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court on the area of individual types of trade, where exceptions are concerned, shows that some of these shops are now larger or larger than 200 square metres and all those travelling - and most of us are travelling - across Europe and around the world, we see that all countries are extremely rapidly expanding sales or trade at airports. And I see no economic, no other reason to be restrictive here and to restrict the operation of these shops. We should act on the contrary, especially when the expansion of infrastructure facilities and airports of Brno and Maribor and bus stations and other locations is envisaged. After all, we are also covering one large part of the costs of the large investments that the State is carrying out and will carry out in infrastructure. Finally, we must take into account, however, the fact that we are talking about what the referendum will has been, that since then, more than two years have passed since the referendum, changed a lot. Also what we used at the time as an argument for such solutions and for such a referendum question, namely, the closure of trade in neighbouring countries. We see that the Italians have already taken measures to liberalise, that the Austrians are going the same way or the same way, that we are not talking about the Hungarians. And it will certainly happen that, as much as possible, we will unduly restrict our business on Sundays, the more the purchasing power will flow into neighbouring countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u26	Of course, I support the amendment just presented by my colleague Horvat, which some of us have also signed. We support it because it improves the basic text that we have before us, the proposal for a law that we are currently discussing, and because it allows for the negative, counter-effects of life to be minimised. That there will be some of these consequences, it probably doesn't show any doubt. Although the text states that there are no implications for the budget and that there are no other consequences of the battle, it is, of course, impossible to prove. If, for this reason, it is true that there will be slightly less traffic, if it holds that there will be fewer jobs for this reason, this will of course mean less purchasing power, it will mean fewer contributions to the pension or health allowance, it will mean less resources from the State budget tax and, of course, more than obvious financial implications for public finances. Perhaps even worse will result if all that is foretold really happens, namely, consequences that will be of a social nature. Those data, which I do not claim to hold, but have been served at the trade association with them, say the following: that about 10 per cent is expected to be less than the average wages of traders who have worked on Sundays and holidays, because they had the highest allowances among all sectors so far, 75 per cent. It is expected that the social situation of those who have so far had so much higher wages will deteriorate. It can be expected that about 12 percent of those who have worked on Sundays will have fewer jobs. It is possible to expect up to a 10% reduction in traffic and, of course, it is clear that there will also be poorer supply and poorer quality of supply. Let me say that on Sundays, 12.9 per cent of the trades work, that it only works at 13.7 per cent of the trades on Sundays, and that 73 per cent never does. This is not such a dramatic social pressure, especially given that there has not been a single complaint in the past year concerning work on Sundays, which we have been able to learn from the Inspector's report. I believe that it is possible that this agreement between the employer and the employee will also be under some pressure, but if it were predominant, it would probably already be the side of the bell. I am still convinced that the government or at least the ministry with the minister at the forefront of this issue is aware of the fact that there are no economic and economic reasons for what we are doing. They have literally written that we are talking about closing arguments that are more based on value judgements than on the results of economic analyses. And for the sake of that, it is so enlightening today that I say again, back to social dialogue. If this could be resolved in the social dialogue, then we, Members and Members of Parliament, would not have the problems we have now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I was one of those Members who had witnessed in the previous term how this referendum had actually taken place, what the National Assembly had done at that time or the then ruling coalition to prevent this referendum from happening. The referendum issue has also been referred twice to the Constitutional Court, and the consequence of all this is, of course, what we have before us today. It is said that the referendum issue was as it was, and that, we agree in New Slovenia, it was quite restrictive. But people at the referendum voted on such a referendum issue. And I would never have been on that team alone, who would have changed the constitution if it had been necessary to get around the referendum will. I would not do that myself, because the greatest form of democracy is actually direct decision-making, which is what we call the referendum will. As far as the first amendment of Mr Ferri Horvat is concerned, we will not support him. We're not exactly going to support him for the third indent. In fact, this amendment points to the fact that there will be another appeal before the Constitutional Court and that the Constitutional Court will re-judge the adoption of the law. And of course we don't want that in New Slovenia. We want a solution to come up once in a while. We agree, however, that there is also a diction to be found in this law, which we still have time for, including with regard to tourist centres. Everything else in the amendment of the three coalition parties is now somehow complemented and I must say that we have gone a little wider than what was voted in the referendum, because it has actually turned out that because of the so-called referendum question we would all have great problems together. In particular, consumers would have problems. The policy referendum has not been cooked, as some want to show. The referendum took place - I strongly deny any world-level or other ideological initiatives that led to this - the referendum took place because employers and employees could not agree. The union's representatives are sitting in this room. And they didn't come together. The protection of the fact that traders must be protected and, above all, talked about young mothers' trades, which were absent both Saturdays and Sundays, resulted in the collection of the necessary signatures and the National Assembly was unable to do anything but sign a referendum and verify it at the referendum decision. The decision is clear and it is sad that for more than two years after the referendum, we have not yet passed what people have decided. But now we're just about to do it. I worked alone before I came to Parliament as a field vet. I worked all Fridays and holidays, all week long, even for Christmas I didn't have, like, the biggest Christian holiday, if some of you are talking about the world-viewing consequences of this referendum, I didn't have any time off, but we were working because we just understood that we had to work. Because there was no other option. And that's how you knew in the future what holiday of the year it would be when you actually have to be at work. And I tell you, it's not easy. Especially when you have a family at home, small children, and when you have to go to work. But if the agreement and the working order are the same, then it must be followed. However, we must ask ourselves which jobs are needed on Sundays and holidays. Who are they? And, of course, I'm one of those people who I don't believe is going to cause all these consequences if the traders don't work hard on Sundays, of course, they won't. Maybe people are going to spend a little less money, and they're going to have more money for other things. Maybe that's why there'll be more savings in the bank because they won't buy everything they don't need. The damage, of course, is not only material, as some think. The damage is very different. The biggest damage, I think, is that a young mother never has Sunday time or a father for her children. And then, of course, instead of them, they're raised by the street. This seems to me to be the worst damage to this small Slovenian nation of ours. The material damage you're all talking about, I'm sure she won't be. What someone needs, they'll buy on Sunday instead. And even under this law, every week of the year, if traders agree on one another in a place, the stores will be open, so that no one will be deprived. If there are four different shops, it is 40 weeks a year, and this is almost covered all year. Let me get this straight. I will not support this amendment for the reason I said it. Involves re-decision before the Constitutional Court. I don't think that's why the initiators filed it, but they wrote it down very embarrassingly. We will support the amendment of coalition parties by preparing for the third reading to make this additional effort and find some solution for the tourist centres, which we know where they are and which they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. Lakhovnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dear Members! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we try to resolve what we can with some amendments. We have also been approached by various entities and have been reminded of the great economic damage caused by this law. On the other hand, of course, we have a referendum decision as it is, which has also been advocated by some who today are trying to find a whole range of exceptions. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain in particular the two amendments that we're putting into the parliamentary group. Prof. Dr. Marko Pavliha proposed an amendment, which seeks to achieve in Article 1, paragraph 4, in order to add the text "The municipalities in the tourist areas are in an area where more than 40,000 nights have been held in a year. These municipalities shall be appointed by the competent minister at the beginning of the calendar year on the basis of data from the previous year." The spirit of this amendment is to help the tourist areas in particular, because we would otherwise have a paradox, let's say that in the area of the municipality of Piran, where a fellow Member of Dr Marko Pavliha, trade would be closed and, on the other hand, the Italian border is not far away, how close it is. And if we don't let consumers rummage into our shopping malls on Sundays in the Piran area, they'll cross the border. This thing is only a few kilometres across the border to Italy or across the border to Croatia if they decide there more wisely than we do at the beginning of this law. This is how I said to try to tackle the development of tourist areas in particular. The same is true of the second amendment that I have tabled as the first one, where I try to add in the fourth paragraph before the point: "The municipalities in the tourist areas are municipalities in which the number of nights spent exceeds four times the number of people in the municipality. The same shall be determined by the competent minister on the basis of objective data." It is, of course, municipalities in various areas, both Upper Sava Valleys, such as Bled and Bohinj with surroundings, Kranjska Gora, Bovec area with valley Soča, Izola, Piran, Koper, Pohorje, Maribor with surroundings. In short, it is a tourist destination besides the already mentioned ones, including Brežica and the place in the Upper Savinja Valley. I also want to highlight why I took this relationship. Of course you can have a situation, I don't know, we had, on Friday we decided, let's say, whether or not the congregation will be a River. The river on Savinja is above and below. Likely, if you have another term, you will be appointed for each one of your congregations. But no matter what it is, you somehow decided that no or no affection had suddenly fallen. But I would like to highlight a typical example. The river, which is a relatively small town with 2,000 inhabitants, has two tourist camps operating in July and August and is full of Dutch tourists and tourists from other areas, particularly foreign tourists. What is achieved in this way is that, say, one such closed area is allowed to open trade even on Sundays. I don't think it makes any sense for us to shut down these tourists' stores. It is true that after some exceptions already in place the camps are included, but of course there is no reason, these tourists are not confined to the camp on Sundays alone. They're walking all over the Upper Savina Valley. If my colleague was here, we could confirm it and, of course, it is crucial that we try to sell them as much as possible. This is, I think, in the interest of the tourist companies that are in this area and in this way we are trying to achieve this in order to make these places easy to declare as tourist areas where some exceptions would apply. Here Soljčava is listed, as I said, if you define yourself as a congregation for Rijeka, if you define it as a congregation, then this would certainly be an exception and something else would happen. Similar examples include Lake, Laško, Moravian Spas, Sežana. This is an area where tourism is very important. And of course we make up our minds. As we decide, on the one hand, between the dilemma, what should be open and what should be closed, social consequences should also be taken into account when setting exceptions. I understand the interest of some or the arguments where, for example, you warned that due to Sunday's work, family relations break. As I said before, I don't understand why you're not consistent with other groups of professions, which I've mentioned a lot before; catering is a similar example. Last but not least, if we were to go really far now, one might wonder why you can't get fuel on Saturdays, you have to do it on Sundays. If you really believe in it so strongly, it's like stores and shops break down on Sundays, like, family relationships and stuff. On the other hand, the fact that the whole type of trade will remain unemployed is also due to the fact that trade will be closed on Sundays. And, of course, these closed trades will also have certain social consequences. If a person loses his job, there are also various social consequences that are not good. That is why I have also pointed out that I expect the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who was in the past mandate when he sat in these benches, to have everything closed on Sundays, but now to prepare measures in the field of active employment policy, where those who would eventually lose their jobs will be able to find new jobs in other activities. But I think that's the right thing to do. The next thing I want to remind her of is that, as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to support all those amendments that solve some of the life situations that have already been discussed here. The flower shop at the cemetery is the best case. When we fall on the 1st of November on Sunday, of course we have a nice or under the terms, a very problematic issue that I don't know how people are going to end up. As far as the old-fashioned kernels are concerned, I don't mind, but I know what's going to happen, and I'm warning you now. The municipalities will be spreading these old-fashioned sails with decrees, and you will suddenly have half the city declared an old-fashioned nucleus in the cities. What I'm saying is that we're adopting a law ourselves, and we're setting a whole series of exceptions, because we know that the law as it is is is bad, which is what the Minister himself rightly acknowledged. But if we go back to the very starting point, we see that the real problem was that someone at the referendum asked a question to people who were extremely unclear. The ones you're going to say that's not true, then answer me the question why you're now exercising with these spatial limitations, once 80 square meters, twice 200 square meters. Why so many amendments and so many exceptions - because it turned out that the law, as it was originally put in place, is completely lifeless. So what we're doing right now is we're trying to solve what we can with the amendments. However, I think that there is also a lesson for this National Assembly that where a free economic initiative can be left to people, where there is a place for social partnership, this should not be the subject of a referendum decision, nor should it be the subject of certain forced decisions that take the form of law and that we now see that however we turn them, in some way are bad. I have to say, I have a big problem with this marriage. If we calculate how much money and how much energy has been invested here and what will be the end result, of course we can ask ourselves what was the purpose of it all. And, of course, it was intended to be clear, sometimes to dictate as much as possible, then the previous government, but now that those people who did it are in the government, of course they have a problem solving it. And all that they used to advocate is also being beaten by supporting the amendments that seek exceptions. Because that's what the paradox is about. First, we had a law that was very restrictive, and then it turned out that the way it was was was unacceptable because it complicated people's lives, and we don't want that. And then there were exceptions. These exceptions are many, as I said, I will support them myself, because in the end, life must be simplified and the harmful effects reduced. Of course, it will be interesting to see all those who have recently thundered that all stores must be closed on Sundays, drawing attention to the social effects that some amendments are now advocating. In particular, I personally like the one who mentions exceptions in the Roma centers. That's what I support as far as the souvenirs are concerned. But for someone, it's a halfway house, even a hypermarket, if that's what he understands. Of course this is discriminatory, sometimes yes, sometimes not; under these conditions yes, others do not. And that's what's wrong. So once again, I stress that it is not the government that someone else does not tell people what they can and cannot do on Sundays. Freedom of an individual may be limited only to the freedom of another. What provides the framework for this is a social agreement. And here it is, and I agree with those who said that trade unions, employers and employees did not properly perform the tasks here in the negotiation phase. And I'm sorry it didn't come to a social agreement. If this agreement had been reached, then I am sure that we would have simply incorporated it into the law in this area and there would not have been all this circus that is here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Six other panellists or seven, eight, have been reported for discussion. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members, Vice President! In fact, I applied to the word because I think some of my statements here are repeating themselves quite improperly. I've just heard from Ambassador Lachovnik that he told the government or anyone not to tell people what to do on Sundays. And that's what, unfortunately, we have to do -- we have to do it because that's what people wanted. That's the way it is. In fact, under previous governments, because they were suppressed and forced to do so, the referendum made a statement on this issue. And today to say whether the proposal is bad or a good proposal is, of course, a matter of listening to people, people's will, or economic initiative. If we say that the proposal is a good one, if it fully sums up the referendum question, then the proposal proposed by the government is a good one because it sums up the will expressed by the people in the referendum. However, if we are eloquently interpreting people's will and adding exceptions and exceptions and following an economic initiative, we say that there is a good other proposal. So on this side we have the referendum will of people, on this side an economic initiative, and the only question is how much discretion we take here ourselves, to explain what is good and what is bad and, on behalf of people, to prescribe what they should do on Sundays. People said they wanted to keep stores closed, except with exceptions which were very clearly defined in the referendum issue. When we talk about a bad or a good solution, we say it with perception, what we think about this issue ourselves, not what is objectively true. And what is objectively true in this case, I said - this is for the social partners to agree on how and what. That those who make profits with the store for themselves and their families and those who work there should decide what is good. Any different solution will in some way be the intervention of such a government, especially the National Assembly, because it will adopt this law into what people should do on Sundays. I therefore agree that all that the National Assembly will set out is, in some ways, a substitute for what would be better, what people should actually set. And once again, please understand my position on this marriage as well. The Ministry of Economy has taken the view that it is the referendum will that we are obliged to respect, so we have also drawn up such a proposal for a law. However, if Members feel that it is possible to go into what someone thought when he asked the referendum question, how to explain the referendum question and how to explain the will of people, then it is also possible, but then there are many claims that do not hold here when someone sets a right and says that the referendum will is that, on the other hand, it is the amendment and says that the power of the referendum is to explain it differently. Personally, I do not think that there will be any greater economic damage, in fact even the opposite, if trade with vital cost of living is closed, I am talking, in particular, about hypermarkets, on Sundays. Each of us every year, month, week, buy a certain amount of life's necessities. If someone wants to buy, they can go shopping today. He doesn't have to do it on Sunday. He can do it any other day. This will reduce costs for some stores, as they will not be opened on Sunday. However, I think it is true that a free economic initiative needs to be heard in particular where they are tied to Sunday work. These are tourist centers, and these are hotels, including burial sites, I agree. The more we mention these exceptions, the more we will distance ourselves from the referendum will of the people and the more we will be in an uncomfortable situation when we weigh on the one hand or even within the framework that people imagined at the time when they voted what they voted on, and what we think is good for the economy. From this title, I reiterate that, of course, it would be only good for the social partners to agree. That everything we do here today is bad or significantly less good.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. Lakhovnik, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I was quoting you. You said the bad solutions were ready, this is seen from the magnetogram, and I only reminded you that you are now in the government and that the government has prepared them. The same as referring only to social partners, if you're a minister, is the easiest. But what I find most interesting about your thesis, you said, on the one hand, an economic initiative, on the other hand, people. You objectise an economic initiative, but on the other hand there are entities. People, entrepreneurs, employees, tourist workers are also responsible for the economic initiative. I have here a whole bunch of letters of employees from these activities that point to a lot of economic damage. You estimate there'll be no harm, but we'll see. But there is always an elephant for an economic initiative, or an initiative by people in the back, that doesn't just occur in the air. Second thing, Mr. Secretary. People are voting with their purchases, which is probably what we agree with. We agree that if you don't want to go to Mass on Sunday, then you don't, and if you don't want to go to the store, then you have a chance not to go. It would be completely wrong, and my thesis was that if on Sundays we banned, say, visiting religious buildings because they suffered the lives of priests, everyone would be appalled and justified. I'd be the first to be appalled at that. What you're saying here is that some people who want to shop are called, no, but you can't, you have to be home and you have to do something else. This is what I fear is that the government wants to regulate the lives of the people or those who proposed the referendum at the time. Let's see who was the biggest advocate back then, where they were sitting and where they were sitting today, that's all I was talking about. The third thing I would like to stress is that if you say that there is no economic damage, some cost-benefit analysis. The one that was presented was bad. And if you say yes, because now the costs in the store are going to be lower, because on Sundays it won't work. With that logic, we could've closed it on Saturdays, and we'd say, but now it'll be even better. But it's profit that's the key. The difference between revenue and expenditure shall be considered. Nor does this suggest that people have the extent of the funds they spend on purchases one day. Consumers behave quite differently, which you probably know well. And once again, what I want to stress is, you see for yourself that these are bad solutions, you yourself have found that things go back to the previous term. I couldn't agree more with you. But let's see who was the one who was the one who screamed the most, that everything had to be closed on Sundays. Who are those MPs from the magnetograms? We'll see an interesting picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Look, when we're talking about people, of course, we're talking about the referendum will of people. That's what I thought, and they told you theirs. And what they have said is very clear and this has also been read for this speaker on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. People have made up their minds. Why did they make that choice? Because the decisions of the authorities responsible in the previous term have led them to this, in view of the controversy in this House as well. People have said their part, and it is our responsibility, of course, whether we respect it or not. Any proposal from this point of view, according to this referendum expressed people's will, is a departure from the position expressed by qualified majority in the referendum. That's all I'm talking about, nothing else. It is easy to say today that in such a cooked matter, the government is proposing bad things. No, no, no. The government proposes what people said at the referendum and follows the instructions of the Constitutional Court on this subject. Those who will be here today at the referendum will always have a referendum question before you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Stane Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. If we look at it that way from the top, we'd say yes, but it's a very simple law. But when we take a deep breath, it's not that simple. Why? Because the drafter, the Ministry was limited on several sides to write down this law. The fact is, there's been a referendum. Consumers who are now advocated by some are also voters. And these consumers went to the referendum as an electorate. There they voted a referendum result, which is just the way it is, and in fact we have no right to comment. He's what he is. Within this referendum will, within the framework of the fact that the law was still before the Constitutional Court, as a result of this referendum will, the Ministry has drawn up a new law that takes into account, inter alia, the free economic initiative enshrined in the Constitution, which is right. And all of this means that the Ministry had quite a limitation on how to prepare this law. Of course, it would be better for employers and trade unions to discuss themselves, of course, it would be better. But this deal didn't come up, and the Ministry is just obliged because the deadlines are running out, to make a marriage. And by the time the law was drafted, such a law came to Parliament, we completed it with amendments, and we are essentially talking about amendments to this law. But my slightly longer preface is just to understand why we have complemented, this is the Slovenian Democratic Party, the People's Party and New Slovenia, we have complemented with an amendment, extended those that can have additional open stores. And maybe that's not quite enough. We also discussed how it would be wise and wise to include a tourist centre. Somehow agreement between coalition parties has been reached to include this. Get involved in the third reading. The Ministry therefore agrees to make a list of these places by means of its sub-legislative act. And this is such a compromise between the fact that consumers are not harmed, that they are not deprived, that tourists have the opportunity to spend money they want to spend on us, and they spend. However, it is very important that we keep jobs for small traders, because they have already been so competitively and so much pressured by this globalisation that has been created, and they have already already fallen by the majority. But those who are still standing on the surface will somehow be able to maintain and survive by means of this law. Personally, I don't think it's that important for employees at all that most employees are free on this day. Weeks, holidays, this is traditionally a day off in Slovenia, days off, and I put something on tradition, and I think it's also the right thing to do, that big centers, except for those exceptions, are closed. When I look at it that way, this marriage isn't even bad, but we'll try to fix it by the third reading with the amendment. The SDS Group supports this amendment, which it has tabled, together with the Signatories of the Slovenian People's Party and NSI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Christian Janc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you very much, again. President, Mr. Minister. A little bit of history, that was already said today. I regret that this dialogue was not between employers and employees. This time of debate, which has been going on for a long, long time, has apparently been everyone on their shore looking for a solution to the referendum. I also regret that, at that time, the Ministry of Labour, the economy, was actively involved in this cooperation. Perhaps then we could find a solution more easily. There would be no referendum decision, just as it was. This is just behind us, and this story is over. It was what it was, and now we're here where we are. We have a referendum. We have a decision. And believe me, I believe that this is one of the most difficult tasks of the Ministry of Economy, how to satisfy this area, which is covered by itself as a minister and with its team, and how to meet the referendum decision. It's impossible. It doesn't work together. If this formula can be "congregated" in Parliament today, I will congratulate him. It's not working. It's just not working. Therefore, I regret that at that time we did not exhaust all the possibilities that were given, both of them, at that time, compromise between one and the other. I have a feeling that today it is sad for both of us that what has happened has happened to employers and employees. But now it's "passe" again. The referendum will must be respected, I think that every democrat must respect it. But what I'm saying is that it comes to it, but first all the resources need to be exhausted and the possibilities for cooperation, negotiation and so on. We've got another referendum like this, railroad. We've got a headache, gentlemen and ladies, and it's gonna hurt us. And so on. I merely appeal to what I have also said in my debate that this is not happening, and the current authorities must also, although it is an economic initiative, do everything they can to agree on a table and agree on a consensus. But consensus, if you want it, you always find it. You always find him. So it's at local level, it's not different at national level, it's just a little different. And that's why it's this thing. Today we have an amendment that we have on the Committee on the Economy, quite a few things we have said to ourselves, and we have been more or less united in these things. We want to add something because what is is not quite right, but at the same time to take into account the referendum will. My colleague, Chairman of the Committee on the Economy, has conducted this committee properly, as before, and I must also make this public and seek compromise between the Members and others. Finally, we even voted in favour of such a compromise. I think it was 9:0 on the Committee on the Economy, the amendment proposed by the Committee on the Economy, that we supported, and in my opinion it has nothing special against the Minister himself or his ministry. However, here we also have an amendment, which was previously discussed by colleague Pajk, and certainly there are not many essential differences, if we are honest, a little in detail. We are talking about tourist centers, which I think is right to put this in, because Slovenia is a country of tourism and if we limit it, then we are a step back. And I don't think there's any disagreement here. If local communities can determine whether you trust them that much or not, tell the Ministry if not. After all, this is where we can talk and agree. However, I will point out once again, it would be unacceptable - and I will turn to what may have been a little challenging earlier by my colleague Lahovnik - Bezje. You don't have anyone to sell at Brez on Monday. The only Sunday is that day of the week, probably when you've got a lot of people coming in, and traders can sell. They can sell to someone on Monday? - I don't know, the locals, but there aren't many. And we have to take that into account. I do not think that the referendum decision was in the sense of closing everything on average in the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce. I spent 12 years alone in the company of commerce and hospitality, but there were no problems. Also, some gladly came to work on Sundays if they knew why they were coming to work on Sundays - for money, for honest money. And here we are now on some blind paths. I think today is just a task for us in Parliament to try to implement such an amendment, which will drink water, I will say again in the lower position, which is very close to the amendment of the Committee on Economics and the amendment of the coalition, that we will somehow combine it and accept in the third reading one that we will all stand for. I would like as many Members of this Parliament as possible to stand behind this law. At the same time, we urge that in the future, if such decisions continue to arise, for a referendum, we do our utmost not to do so, with some compromise, with some agreement, with some giving in to one another and others to find consensus, even if the competent ministry is included, perhaps it is a weight. And that similar stories in the future are no longer happening in the National Assembly, because we are truly between two camps, between economic initiatives and referendum will - let us now decide that one will be good and the other. Last but not least, we have become used to it or have become accustomed to it. Sundays are unfortunately the most successful day of the week in stores. So either one of us is going to church, the other one's going to the store, the third one's going for a walk, and so on. This is a consumer habit, as it is, and now it would be bad to change it a hundred percent. Many voters in Slovenia certainly do not support this, that we are not talking about consumers. But I am in favour of this, once again, the referendum will is here and we must respect it as much as possible. This is, after all, also a decision that has been made, whatever it is, now the question up or down doesn't matter, yes. And I think that we are very close to this amendment, which, together with the amendment of the committee and the coalitions, we should put it into this law, which will eventually also solve this economic area, which I think is very important, tourism and this story that we have, and, on the other hand, the will of the people expressed in the referendum. I myself am inclined to find a compromise between the two amendments that we are uniting by the third reading and with the desire to support as many Members as possible and then to adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I am also one of those Members who, in the previous term, advocated a healthy rational regulation of the opening of trade. This also makes me very well aware of all the ignorance and arrogance of some merchants or not of traders who at the time felt so strong - I would say that they felt justified in court merchants, given some connections - that they felt that they had a constitutional court on their side, that the National Assembly could not prescribe a law for them and that in the end they would certainly succeed. There have been a number of attempts by social partners or unions and also parliaments to find some healthy reasonable regulation in order to make Slovenia, in fact, comparable in this area to our neighbouring countries. But you weren't ready at the time. I agree that, as a result, perhaps the initiators of the referendum, who came from the civil sphere, have written the referendum issue even more narrowly. However, I firmly believe that nothing has caused such serious damage that, in fact, the message of this referendum has a number of positive consequences. We heard some of them today. When the representative of Liberal Democracy wondered whether we were obliged to respect the referendum will of the people, he replied: Of course we are. This is such a surprising conversion and enlightenment for me that a representative of a party is positively identified to the referendum will of the people. I have seen many cases, and the practice of ensuring that he is not there is no God and no one who could force that party to respect such a referendum will. And I say that's one positive consequence. You're probably explaining that this is collateral damage for you today. In view of this, I would, of course, expect this knowledge to be lasting in the same people, that colleague Lahovnik, at the time he was Minister of Economic Affairs, would have acted in such a way as to acknowledge that he respects the referendum will, that he should be respected and that he would have already come up with a proposal for a law and that he might today have some amendments, corrections, useful amendments to this law. But at that time, there was actually this panic, the intimidation of people, how much they would lose their jobs immediately. This was also threatened by merchants at the time of the referendum, at the time of the adoption of this law. And you know, I'm pretty sure we're overdoing it today, too. Buying power is fixed, it is limited, and in the field of food products people will collect as much as they can buy. Last but not least, if it were such a terrible economic damage, Austria would be one of the most underdeveloped countries, because it had such arrangements all the time. It is said that, through and through, we would work against the economic interests of the State, and this claim will probably be difficult to prove. It is also useful because I have heard a new definition today, i.e., I was firmly convinced to this day that the Roma centers are necessarily tied to some sacral objects, but today we have heard that for those who have money and profit the highest deity, there can also be a hypermarket Roma center. Of course, there are processions of people there, but not on those claims that are generally considered to occur in the Roma centers. For this reason, I must say that when I identify myself to these amendments, we have made some positive progress, that today is dominated by what also prevailed in the law's proponents when we proposed it: an agreement, a meaningful agreement that will protect the social rights of traders, which will protect some traditional Slovenian values such as family, while also allowing the development of trade also on the basis that traders will collect the money brought by tourists. I think that there is such a diction here, with the possibility of agreeing to put tourist centres into law so that we can come up with a solution. In fact, I am sad that it took so long to come up with a reasonable solution, but I think there will be a good solution for these trades, mostly these larger centres to be closed on Sunday, but at the same time it will be possible for every consumer to be provided at a suitable location and that these shops in the city's cores and smaller shops and at these tourist sites will still be open. One more time. Nothing terrible has happened, and nothing terrible will happen. I think this will make us a European comparable country in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u44	It is my opinion that we are not today implementing the referendum will of the people, nor are we preparing a law to answer those questions raised at the referendum. First, because the referendum certainly did not raise the question of whether trade should be up to 200 m2, but 80 m2. Yes, of course, look at the question and the form, the justification of the question, etc. It was interesting, however, that then, and of course, as far as all these exceptions are concerned, then in this referendum you have to look at the referendum question and the whole justification for why the regulation should be such or different. [[...]] There 80 m2 was set for that area, which was supposed to be sufficient for the essential necessities of life. It is interesting, however, that later, when the law was passed, New Slovenia's Member was inconceivably defending 200 m2 and you will not believe it, he freely admitted that he had met with a merchant who explained to him that 200 square meters would be right. Member of New Slovenia, who has even made progress now, but this is not essential either. Since it has been more than a year since the referendum, you are right and you have hung yourself at this point, it can also be defined differently in the law than it was at the referendum, as the referendum binds for a certain period of time. But in the end, it doesn't matter. It is essential that, in particular, laws arise in this mandate, firstly in the introduction of free economic initiatives, people's choice, the right to do so and so on. And because we can't get enough of this, we're gonna do something just to do it, even if it's bad. And the minister and everyone on the side of the coalition freely admits that. I don't understand why it took a year if we couldn't prepare the law at that time in half a year, even because of the amendments I was talking about, about 200 m2 proposed by the New Slovenia Member, despite 80 m2 of the envisaged area, we would probably have invented in a year and more a definition in a law that would not be as bad as the real government. And if you need a year, why not a few more months, do good and come with a good marriage. I submit that, in the framework of these solutions, even within the framework of the amendment, which is now being boldly proposed by the coalition, you will make exceptions. Does this mean that merchants will be at one airport, which is, say, where I believe that something will be sold in stores in Slovenia or at all airports from Portorož, Maribor, Lajš near Velenj or Prezna near New Town or Church, or if you want to, at Sežana etc., at all these airports, you will now be able to set up shops and sell. You didn't define what a bus stop meant. Bus station in Ljubljana - I drive there twice every day because I live on the railway. So far, I thought it was a bus stop, but no, today I was told that the bus stop is, if the road is like this and the bus stop is just in the middle here, across this road and across the traffic lights where the shops are now open, and it's not a bus stop. I don't think so, but so far I thought it was either on the left or on the right side of the road, and it's a bus stop. No, this one's gonna be closed, too. How will you justify before 193 mayors that you have classified certain municipalities or certain destinations as tourist destinations, while other municipalities are simply deleted. However, we have long defined and wanted Slovenia to be a whole tourist destination and with its diversity it certainly is. If you want, from peasant, mountain, I don't know which tourism, to the sea, to the casino in Gorica or thermal in the spas, etc. I claim and wonder Mr Janc that he agrees that Sevnica is not a municipality with at least one tourist destination or that the entire municipality is not a tourist municipality. How will these exceptions, even if you write them in the law, interpret them or define them, because then there will be an implementing act and you will say, three or five will be employed by the Ministry of Economy, which will say, the pilgrims will stand in line before these officials and they will say, we would like to have an open trade in this and this place, at this and this point. Who's going to determine that? This rulebook of yours and someone to unlock it. You are because the mayor is the right one, and you're not because the mayor isn't the right one. For God's sake, marriage must be such that it's not said "we'll consider it as much as possible." Whether or not you are paying attention! Tell me to jump or I won't jump. Because it's really misleading to say, "Yes, I would, but something is limiting me, something is sealing me, not giving me a conscience, I don't know what, I have to change," as someone said, the lifestyle is completely broken by these Slovenians. He's completely different. We changed him. Yeah, for God's sake, people have the right to change it. Let them, however, work on the free initiative you are advocating to do what they do in the manner prescribed by the law. But what the law provides for them is that they have to walk on the sidewalk, not on the road, they have to drive on the road, and not on the sidewalk, they can go to the store when they have money, and when they have to buy something, they go to the church when they're called by the conscience that they're going. And this is what should be the mission and mission of this national assembly, not changing the lifestyle. Let him who explained it here in the introduction, and he will soon see that it was only possible to be over-ambitious, conceited, imaginative or over-touching to all citizens and citizens of this country, as well as to tourists and to those who will come. This is the biggest joke that other people who don't care about any church and no ideology come, and for no matter what's in Slovenia, they come to Slovenia because they think they have something to do here, that it's nice, and they'll spend some money on it. And the National Assembly certainly can't be the one who's going to be taking this initiative, this attraction, if you want to, to end up with a decree because it doesn't fit anyone. So all four amendments, which, by the way, are not mutually exclusive, but okay, all four amendments are unsympathetic, unattractive to me, because they don't solve things, but they're spreading something, giving some illusions to do something, but eventually it's going to be some kind of confusion, I'll say, some bickering, who can have it and who doesn't sell it. Why make me go to buy milk on Sunday at the gas station and why not the store where I went so far; but I never went because I had never been to the store on Sunday, I don't remember that being, and I don't care from my point of view. But I'm speaking from the point of view of a country, an open matter. The talk was also that we have to limit in another law the question of how many of these traders should be in Slovenia, how many of these shops should be in Slovenia, and so on. However, it is clear that anyone who is willing to set up a trade will pay for it, is no longer here to guarantee it, and if he closes it, he will close it himself. Of course, you often like to use these arguments in connection with these smaller stores. I'm also sorry that some of the small stores are closing down, but they're apparently closing somewhere else, not just here. Now I was somewhere abroad, and they said, first it came to one country, then it came to Slovenia, then it came to Zagreb, and then it came to Sarajevo, and now it's supposed to come to Serbia and Montenegro. So clearly these trends are going. We haven't invented some things in Slovenia either, and that's true. So I would remember, however, that it was very serious on the table to reach an agreement between the social partners. I will not say that it is the voice of the public that has been reflected through the voice of some parliamentary groups in the previous term, but to a large extent it is. When the text invented by the trade union secretary was written down, then there was pressure from those who wanted to have a referendum, and of course he withdrew it. But it doesn't matter after all. In the end, however, the question was on the table, if you are willing to pay so much and so much, then we too will be ready to work. They had been negotiating for a long time, they were almost together, but time was running so fast and the pressures, the ones that went to the referendum were bigger, and I believe that not by trade unions and workers and workers, but by the web of all circumstances. On one side of the political dimension that was reflected in that opposition that was then online, of course, also clearly some who wanted to be free on Sunday, and probably something else. So I am not making illusions that we are doing the referendum will, I say that it is not, and, secondly, that whatever is done, it will be a bad compromise for trade and for people. But as you promise, you will continue to do so until the third reading, and you may even get lucky, and if you're lucky, I'll support you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u46	I doubt that some Members have such a bad memory or that you have not read the material, I think there is something else in the back. I'll read the referendum question. Apparently, a lot of people here don't know what the referendum question was. The referendum question was: Are you in favour of the proposal for a law amending the trade law to stipulate that shops for emergency life items are open not more than 10 weeks a year, except for petrol services, shops in hospitals, hotels, airports, border crossings and railway and bus stations with a limited area that can be opened without restrictions? This was a referendum question and on the basis of this referendum question, the previous government proposed a law that restricted what this "limited area" is and said that this limited area was 80 square meters. That's the law, that's not a referendum question. The referendum issue had a limited area, a law signed by then President Borut Pahor and then proposed by the government and was adopted and published in Parliament on 10.3.2004 - Parliament has set 80 square meters. In fact, this was also annulled by the Constitutional Court, since the Constitutional Court could not annul the referendum will because the referendum question had been previously tested in the Constitutional Court, which means that Mr Anderlič, a respected Mr Anderlič, did not originate in the referendum issue. This comes from your proposal from the then government, which was then also adopted in Parliament. These are the facts. Here are the documents. I can give them to you. And the Constitutional Court annulled the 80 square limit because it claimed that 80 square meters was an arbitrary area and that the Ministry of Economy had to prepare, on the basis of an analysis of existing shops, a certain limited area followed by a summary of the situation, but not which would lead new traders to some different decisions. As a result, we analyzed the situation, followed the instructions of the Constitutional Court, which issued a decision in May of this year, where it repealed the provisions of Article 17 which therefore restricted those restrictions and even determined that the amendment would enter into force with 1.1.2006. Which means that if we don't do this by the end of 2006, of course, those 80 square meters have been abolished, and after interpretations of certain lawyers, all these trades should be closed on Sundays. That's why we're here today. Why, of course, we are at the government and at the Ministry of the Economy so relatively late, I must say relatively late, we have proposed our solution - because we wanted prior identification of union partners, social partners, pardon. We have documentation in the archive of the Ministry of the Economy that shows that the social partners are actually calling us and asking us not to rush into solutions to the government and to wait for their agreement to actually succeed. That is why we have been waiting for the success of their agreement to come to an end, and that is why it is relatively late today at the table. This solution, Mr Anderlich, fully summarises the referendum will of the people. This solution does nothing but determine the limited area of the referendum question at 200 square metres and nothing else. This law, with the exception of certain non-referendum-related solutions, is that it is no longer necessary to report the operating time of shops because it has nothing to do with the referendum and is in fact a burden of administration, that is to say, a burden of administration for our economy. In short, the proposal put forward by the Ministry of Economy and Government is fully in line with the referendum will of the people and follows the guidance of the Constitutional Court. All manoeuvres, including Mr Lahovnik's proposals, are, of course, a certain distance from this and seek certain exceptions and actually refer to what they thought at the time when they decided who should be open on Sunday and who should not. Please kindly, the Ministry of Economy and Government has fully followed the will of the people, this is evident from this, 80 square meters did not stand in any document that was available in the decision-making of the electorate and the electorate at that time, this was subsequently determined by the law of March, while the referendum was, of course, before that. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u48	I am pleased that Mr. Secretary has said three things. First of all, the marriage is poorly prepared, which he repeated. Secondly, that the referendum was signed on the basis of the law and there were 80 square metres in the law, but there was no question in the referendum. Of course, it was not only a question that was raised in the air, but it was related to something that the National Assembly had considered and what had been adopted. You quoted yourself, it was published by law; and more so that you go in this context to actually pretend that you are calling the Constitutional Court. But the Constitutional Court ruled this year. The referendum was in 2003, 2003 and the referendum was already under way. This is not just a referendum question, because something was said somewhere to close the stores and go to the referendum, and let's close them. No! No! In the procedure, there was a law and a binding on the closure of shops, or an exemption of 80 square meters. You'll be able to read it to others. And it's true, there's only one truth here. It was a proposal for 80, you say 200. 80 is arbitrary, 200 is arbitrary. This is not an argument that you did not arbitrarily submit. It could have been 199 or 180, because it was also said that some of the friends of one of the then advanced MPs had a 180 square store and therefore must have been 200, next to Petrol, with whom they "sold". The opposition of the week "was dealing" with Petrol. However, there was also a Mr. President of a committee who had something more to do with this. Of course, third, by which you confirmed my guidance, is that so-called social partners were forced at the time, or that they pressured the unions to carry out this referendum as soon as possible, because now those who then negotiated the price of work on Sundays say or you say they asked you to adopt this law as soon as possible. Why? So we can work under unlimited conditions on Sundays. That's probably it. Otherwise, I can't explain it to myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Just one explanation, because I can see that I really can't understand that someone actually wants to fabricate history and tell what happened before and what happened later. It was very clear that there was a referendum - because these things that could be checked, I hope you will. The referendum was held on 21 September 2003 with a referendum question which I will not read again. And in this referendum issue, there was also a diction that they could be opened at certain exceptional locations of trade without restrictions, so to speak, time limits, with a limited area. It wasn't anywhere, 80 square feet was nowhere. If you have such a short historical memory, probably the reason is somewhere else, but 80 square feet at the time the referendum question did not stop. On this basis, the National Assembly of March or April, a year later - that is to say, in 2004 - passed the law and determined that it was 80 square meters. First, the referendum issue in September 2003 and March 2004 was the determination of 80 square meters. I got everything right here. This year, the Constitutional Court annulled and ordered the Ministry to propose a new square on the basis of the analysis. We did the analysis and proposed a new square. In short, 80 square meters the previous government proposed to the previous assembly after the referendum, not before. After the referendum!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, I can't give you my word. Please come back a little later. I gave the Minister the floor under Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, the last paragraph, which states that the applicant may be given the floor in the course of the debate when the President allows it. I have also given you a replica and I ask you very nicely to sign up for the debate, but the next Members have also signed up for the debate, which must also be given a word. Mr. Black Bell, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, what are we doing today? Today we are once again witnessing the correction of a bad law adopted by the former authorities. But some people don't want to see it, or they don't want to hear it, that's a fact. Some, while citing human will and stifling how to respect referendum decisions, do not want to see that the decision we received on the table was in line with the referendum will. What the government has proposed to us is exactly what people have decided at the referendum. And no one will tell me that consumers have not decided on this, because over 260,000 of our citizens and citizens who have the right to vote are also consumers. And so they decided, that was their decision, their sovereign will. And if we were to discuss in this direction, we could also conclude very quickly and I don't understand why you're making amendments. If so, let us reject all amendments, accept what is in line with the referendum decision, and go to lunch or shop. It is likely that each one of us realizes that life is not too thorough and that we need to find the right solutions in this regard. I firmly believe that if this referendum were 15 years ago, the question of what would be the decision. And then we had stores open on Sundays, and we had them. In many villages, in many small villages, in many cities, shops were opened 15 years ago even on Sundays, and this did not bother anyone. What about today? But today they're gone. They're rare. All these small, our Slovenian citizens have failed because of these turbo capitalists and mega centers. Everyone, with rare exceptions. And what we're trying to do with this law is that at least some of these things could live back to normal and function normally and that these urban cores that have literally died out -- let's just go look at the coast, through Ljubljana, and somewhere else to come back to life. And I think that's the thing that we should be worried about, and it's obviously a little worried about. I believe that the solutions proposed are not contrary to the referendum will. They enable the normal functioning of this industry and also allow rest for those who have been exploited primarily by those who have started using mega-centres. And I am firmly convinced that this decision was two years ago, two years ago at the referendum precisely because of these mega centres, which is why I cannot support that part of the amendment, respected colleague of Feri Horvat, which is spreading this thing again. This disturbs me in this amendment, and in everything else I think it is very similar to what the three groups are proposing. I think it's this point that the word at the referendum was about, and I think the decision was the result. Limited supply, economic downturn, etc. Please, will we really bring this Slovenia to a faster development by allowing the various BauHaus, BauMaxi, Hofri, Lidli, and I don't know what else to do on Sundays? Is that really what we're going to achieve? I don't think that's going to make us do this, that it's the exact opposite of what we're trying to achieve. I think that in other segments we need to expand with this economic growth and enable us to develop, not in such a way that those centres, where more than half of the non-Slovenian products, will generate mega profits and take advantage of mega. The words mentioned were about limiting tourism incentives and the proposed amendments in this direction. But I have to say, they're bad, at least under points 3 and 4. For if the purpose was good, the essential part was overlooked. We have quite a few centers in Slovenia, which do not have many nights, but are in a tourist sense very important: from Lipice via Postojna Cave etc., and who, with the amendment proposed by the three parliamentary groups, resolve this matter, because a respected colleague who spoke about it overlooked that we are talking about cultural and historical and natural landmarks etc. By the way, there's a problem here somewhere else. Everything that is sold in one such tourist centre does not achieve the total revenue from this sale even a month's realisation of significantly smaller trade in the vicinity of this tourist resort. It is a problem that we do not know this tourism to drive in the right way. In short, I believe that the referendum decision must be respected in every way. If that were not the case, it would probably be easier to discuss this solution, but I think we are so serious that we cannot talk about the fact that nothing can be limited. Then by this logic, why don't we work in stores 24 hours a day, the restaurant 24 hours a day, then we don't need this logic of the Kebra Act, we start here "K" give. Please, some frameworks must be, and I think that this law, on the one hand, follows a referendum decision, on the other hand, sets out normal frameworks in which these activities will take place, and complements, which are proposed, which I think can be further improved, will allow us to do on the one hand what people want and what we are obliged to do and, on the other hand, allow the normal functioning of trade activity in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I understand that the current government and, above all, the position in distress, because apparently it is not at the time when the matter was being prepared for the referendum and after the referendum, that it is still possible for people to implement this referendum will into law. Actually, I've heard it twice today and I'd like to repeat the fact that it was two years ago. The unions that started this matter obviously had a good purpose and started for socio-economic reasons when they proposed some restrictions on closing trade on Sundays and holidays. Then, of course, politics has been involved, and today I can argue, and today, it has also been confirmed in this national assembly mainly from an ideological charge or aspect. So that you do not say that I am musing history, I will quote the President of the National Assembly today as President of the National Assembly, who was then the opposition MP with the following communication to the Slovenian public on this issue, quote: "I understand that the right of Slovenian women to a Sunday rest must be exercised over the right of the owner of the trade to profit. This National Assembly is this right, this psychosocial value must be protected, no matter what the Constitutional Court thinks, I stress, no matter what the Constitutional Court thinks. I am for the Lord's day, and I would like to see that on this day I would not only be a capitalist, sir, but also a Slovenian giver, ma'am. Unfortunately, we are not enough, unfortunately, capital is stronger when we are shaping the fate of Slovenian workers." End of quote. One more thing. The Members who discussed today also discussed from this ideological, family, etc., and so did not change their minds, then - and it is understandable, legitimately, legally - that the opposition took advantage of this wind, which, of course, was triggered by the union, once again, from economic and social, and sat on it from these ideological ones. And today we are faced with problems that, of course, have a large knot and will have to be solved in some way. Therefore, I say that there is no law proposal in line with the referendum will that we have, and of course we are trying to make amendments, given that two years has passed since then and that the situation has changed, to find some common compromise proposal. I therefore appeal once again to the ruling majority of this National Assembly, because five parties have already signed these amendment groups in preparation for the Economic Committee meeting to try to work today on this joint amendment, which holds the first signed Chairman of the Committee, Ferri Horvat. At the end. I do not agree, and I strongly reject, because it is not in the context of what the Minister is saying, namely, one of the Members of the ruling coalition, the largest party has literally said today, with this law we will "relax" - "relax", one of the other terms - the great merchants and give the small ones the opportunity to keep themselves." Listen, if this is the purpose of the amendment of this law, and here I absolutely disagree and then all the arguments that you, Minister, are in public explanation today - here I am talking about competition, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u55	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I will always intervene, even though I have to repeat one thing five times. The proposal for a law adopted by the Government and prepared by the Ministry of Economy, adopted by the Government and sent to the National Assembly, is fully in line with the referendum will of the people, 100%. And once again there was a claim that it was not entirely. Tell me, honourable Member, who you have repeated this once again, in which part of the government's proposal is not entirely in line with the referendum will of the people. Please tell me exactly. Secondly, and do not ask the government, ask the motioners how and what the parliamentarians will decide in connection with the proposed amendments, but 100% of the people's will at the referendum is fulfilled, while following the instructions of the Constitutional Court of May this year is covered by the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Gulic has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u58	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues, colleagues. On 21 September 2003, this referendum was held and at that time had a happy and smart Sunday break and the accident never rests. That is why, of course, we are discussing these matters today, and I think we are really having a debate. We certainly have no right to change the referendum result, which was such that 15,84091% of voters decided that trade was closed on Sundays. Of course, we can comment on this and, on the basis of this, we can also identify what will benefit us in the future. Rather, when an initiative arises, not to drag her into political waters, but to treat her as such. At least at the beginning, as I recall, it was that the workers wanted to have a fair pay for their work, it is said, Sunday allowances, as it were appropriate, and of course the Sunday work for them was limited. Restricted personally, it is said that the trader would not work more than 10 weeks a year to avoid a trader working more than 10 weeks a year to be normal, short enough to be in line with the law. Then the matter went there to keep the stores closed. That's not the same thing. It is said that there is no longer a protected individual, but in some ways there is a limited initiative, an initiative, a limited opportunity to earn, of course there is also a limited possibility for all who would like to buy on Sundays. All of us are consumers, some of us are buying on Sundays because they've fallen into consumer colds, others are buying because they can't do it on other days because they're working from dawn till dark or because they're driving somewhere to work, but they're adding up to another hour. Of course, some buy in these large centers because in their cities they don't get what they're looking for, I don't know, no furniture stores, no electronics stores, but it's just milk and bread. And we're not going to get people to actually live on this survival culinary minimum, but they're going to live with something else. This also applies to small places where everything else on Sunday then merges, including, say, shopping. In view of the promises that we will all be better off, it is likely that the purchasing power will increase, and the greed for the good will not be smaller, but larger, and people will want to buy on Sundays. I think that, despite the need to take into account the fact that the marriage solution is so narrow that it needs to be amended, that this space needs to be opened and this matter covered - to put together an egg that was killed on September 21st. It's hard to talk. It's too bad. It is true, however, that this law, which is the result of a referendum decision, is said, and the referendum decision and the law have protected the highest Slovenian values, namely envy, greed and pity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u59	Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable House, Honourable Minister, Honourable Representative of the Government! I'm not gonna say anything new that hasn't been heard or heard yet. First of all, I would like to point out that I do not personally have any problems opening or closing shops on Sundays. For the weekend, I've been shopping for many years on Fridays, on Saturdays, hoping for fresh bread. I don't mind if someone buys or doesn't buy on Sundays. However, I would like to point out that, as a Member, I am personally obliged and committed to respect the majority referendum will of citizens and citizens. And the confirmation of any amendment today means a departure from this referendum will. Today I'm not asking why the referendum came. I was not an MP, I was not in the government, I was a citizen, I attended the referendum. That is what the Members of the State should be asking themselves, and especially the current Members who were ministers in the previous government, which are now in this National Assembly. The reason for the referendum was a bad, uncoordinated marriage. However, the then authorities did not want and were not prepared to listen to the comments and proposals of the then opposition and trade unions. Therefore, responsibility lies with the previous government and with the previous coalition in the National Assembly. Therefore, I find it simply distasteful that some opposition Members are attacking the current government, when they have prepared a bad marriage, and even the current coalition, when they are violating the referendum will. The current government and the current coalition are saving only because the former government or former government has cooked. Mr Lahovnik, former Minister and current Member of Parliament, is even obvious to the current coalition the current cost of the referendum. It is inappropriate and cynical for me not to say even worse, explaining the proposed solution instead of admitting that they themselves have cooked this problem, that they themselves are the original sin to seek compromise solutions. I ask colleagues and colleagues from LDS and SD; why, at the same time, when the issue of the cost of the referendum is being raised, they do not talk about the cost of the referendum recently on the RTV law. I ask you, my fellow Members and colleagues, how would you discuss today if you had succeeded in a referendum on RTV, and the government and the coalition would have taken measures that would not be in line with the referendum will. Your bad work in the previous coalition forces us to accept and move away from the referendum will. I cannot agree with the idea of how much economic damage is done in the economy when trade is largely closed. As a Member, I have not received any professional, written analysis from a neutral professional institution to confirm this thesis. However, I am informed publicly by the trade unions and their excessive work on Sundays about the overcrowding of employees in shops or shopping centres. This is said by employees in personal contact and in a personal interview. Of course they won't say it publicly. I think the buyer buys most of the stuff he needs. And if the store is closed on Sunday, buy it during the week. Shopping on Sundays is just a habit for a local buyer. Most tourists don't buy the necessities of life either, but they need a second-quality tourist offer. However, since the referendum in 2003, time has shown the need to set exceptions and extend them to a reasonable extent, such as camps, marinas, health resorts, not to mention what is also described in the amendment of the coalition. I also support the introduction by appropriate dictatorship of tourist centres, i.e. what actually needs tourism activity, but not what promotes shopping and consumer fever. However, time will show whether these solutions in the law are appropriate, what satisfaction or dissatisfaction people will be, and on the basis of a weighty assessment, will be possible to supplement and amend the basic law on trade by amending the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u62	Your Honor! The amendment signed by SDS, SLS, NSI, will, of course, be supported because the amendment improves the solutions defined in the proposed law. In fact, I am convinced that the government followed fully the referendum will of citizens and citizens who decided at the referendum to close trade on Sundays. I cannot accept this fact and the voices of individuals, even in this House, who claim that traders get a fat supplement to work on Sundays. Here, of course, I have a payroll, my dear colleagues and colleagues, from which it is clearly visible, the standard or earnings of trades even on Sundays. And look, your honor, 175 hours of work -- net 75 thousand tolars per month. Here we still have to add an allowance by law, that's 8 thousand 900 sitt, an allowance for the afternoon work, 78 afternoon hours - 3 thousand 370 tolars. Past work - 4 thousand 700 SIT and now listen to me, an allowance for Sunday work per hour net about 330 sieves, which means that the trade for 50 weeks per month would earn 16 thousand 500 net. And here we have a net salary for shopkeepers with twenty-two years of working time, earning 95 thousand tolars a month. Dear colleagues, this is a picture of the rule of LDS from the past, look at this picture, look at this. So now to say that this law will make it necessary to forgive merchants is a complete nonsense and deception. Your Honor! Look at the astronomical profits that most big merchants are boasting about! If we look at the cost of the director - per month, say, net 2 million sit - and share with the net salary of the trader, we can find that for one principal salary per month, 21 merchants and directors' salaries could be the cost of a trading company, not the wages of poor traders. Ladies and gentlemen of the LDS! I think and I am sure that in the past, when you led this country, you should make sure that poor traders today are not on the verge of surviving with their incomes that are impossible to live with and not die. Today, gentlemen of the LDS, this is really funny to you, to those merchants who are listening to this today, but not to them. All you're talking about today is money, gentlemen of LDS. People are a foreign word to you. You continue to say that you will not respect the referendum will of the Slovenes and the Slovenians, and you will not support the law, so you continue to work from the past, which is directed against your own citizens. Me and the Slovenian Democratic Party will be very happy to support the marriage because we are convinced that the employees of the trade also deserve a day off a week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you. Mrs. Breda Pecan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you very much. It all shows that in the last two years, however, some things have changed, including with regard to the interesting referendum issue that today's government is claiming to be literally and fully meeting with the proposal to amend the Trade Act. The question was written in such a way that shops for emergency life items are open not more than 10 weeks a year, except for petrol services, shops in hospitals, hotels, airports, border crossings and railway and bus stations with a limited area that can be opened without restrictions. I believe that at least, no one can claim that it was, I will say, 15 per cent of the voters, I am talking about 15% of all voting beneficiaries in Slovenia, 2 years ago and so well aware of the consequences of the positive answer to this question. In fact, if those same people asked you today what they thought, the answer would probably be quite different. Above all, we would probably ask ourselves whether the Ministry of Economy and Government of the Republic of Slovenia understand correctly in 2005 what it means to sell here, here, here and here. Does this also mean a store, say, at an airport where they don't sell any emergency life items? Or is it also a store where only souvenirs are sold, for example in hotels, while in tourist resorts that are not specifically quoted in the amendment, the so-called amendment under the number - it seems to me that 2 - where also a lecturer for Slovenian should be asked to correct something, because the word link: natural, comma, cultural historical and Roma centres is very strangely written, and I would ask the proponents to at least correct the Slovenian language if they can't think otherwise. I would like to point out that the referendum issue has already been such that, in my opinion, the legislator cannot state very sovereignly that it is literally following the intent of the referendum question or that this is precisely what is written in the bill, as stated in the referendum question. Because it is not explicitly said 'and other shops with a limited surface', it writes 'and shops with a limited surface', which means that it is likely to be linked to emergency life products. And according to this logic, all these shops that can operate in such and such environments indefinitely should be designed only for the sale of emergency life items, not everything we remember and sell there. And I would say something else to talk about who was actually the one who called the referendum; the government at the time, not because it had to be defended, certainly did not call for this referendum. The referendum was called by the National Assembly for 40,000 signatures, not because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wanted them to. And the referendum issue was confirmed at this national assembly. It is said that the National Assembly today should very clearly answer the question of what was actually meant by this question. And I'd say third. Two years and so - September 2003 - it is said that two years and three months have passed since the referendum. It means that, if we are completely honest, talking about being committed to this referendum today, it is not true. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] And it would be very correct and logical for us to stick to some common sense and logic, because whatever complements that will eliminate individual trade activities, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u65	Time's up, Mrs. Pechanova. Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you, Chairman. The news won't give me any peace of mind that I don't want to come to this debate here today. However, as I follow this debate, I have a feeling, not that we are adopting a law that is the result of the referendum adopted, but that we are preparing for the call for a referendum, as if we are going to decide what question we are going to ask. I think it is quite clear that we have the outcome of a referendum, that we have before us a law that is trying to make the best of what was decided at the referendum. I don't have a problem shopping on Saturdays and Sundays, but I have to say that I wouldn't mind buying others on Saturdays and Sundays, but I have a problem or I feel a duty to stand up for those who don't have a chance to have a week off. Those who have to leave their family on Sundays, their children, and go to work for a couple of figurines. And that's the thing that bothers me, and that's the thing that I'm about, and I'm always going to stand up for. We're talking about trades. It came to me right away, and why don't I go to the hairdresser on Sunday, during the week, you know, we're in Parliament from morning to evening, and I don't have time, and I'd go to the hairdresser on Sunday, and I'd go to the specialist's office on Sunday, and I could count a bunch of things so I wouldn't count. I think we've got things in our country pretty well arranged, the real stuff that's urgent, we've got on-call services, we've got doctors on duty, we've got dentists on duty who won't take you if you don't have an emergency, etc. In stores, things have come to life, whether we admit it or not. They went to one extreme, which I say is inappropriate, even for the times in which we live. Why do I stand up for these merchants and merchants who have to work on Sundays? Because I want the children to have them with us, so that we can have a certain upbringing, so that we can have contact with our parents, which we admit that everyone doesn't actually have during the week, because we're so busy all day. At parental meetings at school, we constantly see how violence among adolescents increases, how young people are uneducated, and so on. And when we figure out why this is the case, we find that the biggest problems and problems are where families are unregulated at home, where children are left on the street and from day to day between weeks and Saturday and Sunday. You'll say it has nothing to do with the stores. As a result, it has to do with stores. In Slovenia, only big mega sales centres have opened in the last period and are still opening. In the fifth largest city in Slovenia, such as Velenje, I can say in the wider part of Velenje, currently, as I have in mind, there are two shops. I was on one Friday, they told me, well, last time you got caught, next week we're closing. Where it takes us, I don't understand. And I think it's high time that we make this referendum decision in a marriage solution, because this is our commitment, we can't make it up here, we will or we won't, but we have to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u68	It is understandable, of course, that those who may not have followed all the activities two years ago to talk about the fact that we are doing the referendum will today. No, no, no. Today we are enacting a trade law on the basis of a Constitutional Court decision. The referendum was held on 25 February 2004 by the National Assembly, which resulted in the adoption of the law as a result of the referendum will. It's over. And because the then government - of course, the law that was passed - has legitimized what was at the referendum. Apparently - yes, Mr. Sok, you'll just have to deal with it. In September 2003, the referendum was followed by the adoption by the National Assembly of such a law as it had adopted on the basis of a referendum. And he took into account 80 square metres, which was presented in the draft law that was before the referendum in the procedure, and also in the referendum declaration to all people, what this restriction would mean as a result of the bill. And because it is logical that the National Assembly, if it realizes the will of the electorate, simply what was in the law, and what it asked in the question and what it was based on, that is precisely the question, that is the limit to 80 square meters, then of course it is bound to legalize it. We knew then that this would present problems, we were against such a question and in this way. It was later apparent that the Government could not accept in, I think, within three months or as long as necessary, a sub-legal act, "the legislation referred to in Article 17, paragraph 5, of the Act must be adopted within three months of the entry into force of this Act". It was not possible because the provision was so inanimate, and someone else, probably traders or more instigators, made a request for a review of this law. This year's Constitutional Court annulled this, of course you have the task of implementing the Constitutional Court's decision, not the will of the people. The will of men has already been realized by law. And this is actually where one paradoxical question arises. In fact, you're up for 200 square feet now, which means that so many more dealers and traders are going to work. Why didn't you go in the opposite direction - not 80, 70, 60, 50 and justifiably? But you went to 200. And now you say 84% of the stores will be open. What have we done with this? How many more people are going to be home for this? 14% - I don't think so! Not even 14% if these analyses are serious and they're real, as you say. So at least it's incomprehensible to me that you're explaining now that you're correcting something because it was badly done. First of all, because, like I said, the marriage after the referendum had already been passed. And secondly, because I don't know what these 200 squares actually mean now, given that you're of course saying once that 84% of people will still work, and secondly that you're saying exactly what kind of stores they're going to open. And it points me to the possibility that trades that will meet these requirements may also be open to a new one, which would probably be contrary to what you say yourself, how do you want small stores to be open. Someone already said that, but this, so not in the mega center, because they're all-- someone said the stores were born. Be decent to traders, to traders, to managers, to us consumers. Yeah, what? Are we just gonna do what we're gonna do or don't know if it's just gonna be decent or if we're gonna sew our own shoes and I don't know what? This is to say in this national council that trade has been born, is not fair, is not civilized, is not - if you want - humane, is not decent, and not at all - you all say that you will not use worse words, and neither will I. It is therefore necessary to acknowledge that this must be done because the referendum at that time was obviously not designed enough to do so, so this adventure, that it is necessary to go to the referendum at all costs, but to limit and of course that this was not possible to be realized, which was asked at the referendum, that you are not now doing the will of the electorate, but to remedy the consequences of the Constitutional Court's decision, which found that you were actually asking people for something that they could not adequately answer so that it could be translated into law. And then, of course, that was the consequence that we are curing today. We certainly do not legitimize the will of the electorate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you very much. For a little while. Dear Mr Anderlič, I am sorry that you have overlooked or failed to pay attention to the position of the legislative and legal service of this Parliament, which has been transmitted to the Committee on the Economy on the consideration of this point, from which it is clear that it is at least controversial in the opinion of the legislative and legal service and in some way clear that the referendum will has not yet been implemented. It has not yet taken effect because, when we confirmed this decision at the referendum, this decision, although it has been good for two years, has not entered into force in nature. It didn't come into force! The marriage solution was adopted on the basis of the referendum will, which was attacked and did not enter into force in nature, that is to say, it did not begin to apply in real life because it was partially repealed this year and was again ordered by the Ministry to find the right solution. In short, according to the legal service of this Parliament, it is very clear that the referendum will in nature has not yet been established and has not actually been established, and therefore all the solutions that we are considering today are solutions that go towards the fulfilment of the referendum will. And at this point, the Ministry and the Government have taken a decision that is in accordance with the referendum will of the people. This should also prove to you the next decision; the fact is that the law, the referendum issue was previously constitutionally dealt with and there was no constitutionally contentious - referendum issue. So if those 80 squares, as you claim, were not the subject of a referendum question, then the Constitutional Court would not have ruled that the referendum issue was not constitutionally disputed, which it decided as soon as 80 square feet in the law appeared. In short, the referendum issue was not constitutionally disputed, and the solution to be placed as a limited area of 80 square meters was constitutionally disputed and the decision of the Constitutional Court was also. More proof that 80 square meters had nothing to do with the referendum question because there was a limited area. It may be concluded that the Member's proposal was followed by some conclusion on this referendum question, as a proposal for a law which also referred to this area was tabled at the time, but the referendum issue did not bear this limited area, so I claim that the proposal resulting from the direction of the Constitutional Court was fully in line with the decision, with the referendum question, and follows the direction of the Constitutional Court's decision. Once again, the Ministry of the Economy and Government was very much at stake here: whether to follow the referendum will of the people who are binding on us is politically and morally binding for all, or to follow the initiatives of the economy, the competitive economy, the initiatives of the whole set of legitimate concerns, in particular entrepreneurs, independent entrepreneurs, even those on the one hand, and employers and employees, or self-employed and so on. The government here has decided to follow the referendum will of the people. Of course, the legislator here is a parliament. The legislator has this right, duty and power to, of course, such a solution in accordance with the position he is taking, to complement, amend, upgrade or otherwise call it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Grill has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I am also truly sorry that today, more than two years after the referendum has voted to close trade on Sundays, we are still discussing this or discussing it as if we are going to call for a new referendum. For me, every referendum decision is binding. I believe that for all of you, too, colleagues, Members and Members. So I don't have any problems here, or I don't see any problems, whether we're going to confirm this law today or not. I'm really happy about this marriage. It respects the basic will that was also voted at the referendum itself. It is true that two years have passed and some changes have probably occurred in Slovenia. Therefore, these provisions, which will now be adopted by this National Assembly in this law - I hope - could also contribute to some of the illogicalities if we look at them from the market economy. But that was the will, and that is how it must be respected. Now I would only touch this, why did this referendum even occur? Because the situation in this area has become intolerable and all those affected have tried to define this issue of Sunday work in this way. The answer is also simple and simple. Here were the large merchants who thus contributed to the fact that small traders practically forced small shops to shut down their shops. We also had open trade on Sundays, and here small traders had a market niche so that they could, at least on Sundays, mainly in smaller landscapes and in villages, provide people with those essential necessities of life. However, large traders have contributed to undermining the values that must be most important to all of us in order to make as much profits as possible in order to prevent small trade. These must be the family that is the base cell of every society. And now a word or two about the demagogic reference to Mr Lahovnik's cases, in which - I am sure - he himself does not believe. For if I believed in this, I would certainly be able to introduce a law as a Member in a procedure where we can determine that we will all, as Members, as well as the production of the company, as well as the municipalities, as well as the offices, as the whole society will be working on Sunday. I am confident that then we will have greater economic growth, less unemployment, more profits and more wages based on overtime. However, I am convinced that only one article in the economy cannot substantially change, either in a positive or in a negative direction. This law, as we have today, respects the referendum will and is also good. However, just as any marriage will bring through time, it will show in practice whether this solution is good or not. Economic, social and political conditions are changing from year to year. We know that the laws we are adopting today will have to be changed as a result of such changes, or in the coming years. And if it turns out to be here, but based on the knowledge of all involved, from traders, from consumers themselves and not least employees, we will also be able to correct this law in a direction that will bring something expected and good to all. As such, I will gladly support this law and thus contribute to the observance of the referendum will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Grill. Mr. Sok, you have the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I'd like to come by again because colleague Anderlich says something he doesn't. I will read the magnetogram from the 33rd regular session, January 2004, because we were the initiators of this law in Novi Slovenija with the first signed Janez Drobnik. This is what the magnetogram says: "That we have not adopted this law for the last time is, of course, again the guilt on the part of the ruling coalition. I will say even more precisely, on the side of the LDS Group leader Mr Anderlič, and the United List has attracted him, which has not allowed this law to be adopted for the last time with a surface of 150 square metres. The requirement is to write 80 square meters, as was the law, although we all know that the referendum did not vote on the law" that the referendum did not vote on the law. Even today you claimed that the referendum voted on the law, which is not true of gentlemen, because you sent twice [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Wait, calm down! You have twice sent a referendum question to the Constitutional Court for an opinion that agreed with such a question in the end. And then we continue: "In New Slovenia we think it would be more appropriate to legislate that those stores that are open under this law can be up to 150 square meters, but you in LDS and the rest of the ruling coalition require and so today we have come to the point that this area was set at 80 square meters. And these 80 square meters are, of course, disputed by the Constitutional Court's decision, because it is not based on any argument, but that the matter would be "studded" if I could use this word of course when you had this majority, this harmonisation amendment for 150 square meters refused and accepted 80 square meters. And the truth is what the Minister has said, the referendum will has not yet been established. And of course, if we accept what we are about to accept today again, because some of you are already saying between the lines that the appeal to the Constitutional Court will again, then, of course, continue, will not be enforced. And we're simply committed to it. Once again, colleague Anderlich, the law was not a matter of referendum. The referendum question was specifically designed, just as you were Mr Potrč, and you then demanded that the Constitutional Court which did. And such a question is constitutionally undeniable then went to a referendum. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. Barovich, procedurally!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am asking a procedural question, which is very clear. Is this a moment of debate on the amendment or amendments, or is this a general debate? In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that this is a general discussion and clarification of things that do not belong to the consideration of the amendment. Therefore, I ask you to answer the procedural question and, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I also ask that we stick to the order and procedure in force in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. The debate is on Article 1 and on the amendment to Article 1. And I agree with you that this is not a general debate. I'm asking the discussers to stick to this. Mr. Blackach, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Whether we are obliged to respect this referendum will or not has been said several times. I think that the other amendment, or under point 2, is talking about this and it might be good for all those who do not believe in the government, not the minister, not the individual Members of the ruling coalition, to say so, but perhaps they will believe the legislative and legal service of this house, which has clearly and clearly stated here. And I don't think there's any doubt about that. The various highly capable thinkers who showed up today speculated on what people thought when they decided to do so would suggest what was on the agenda today. This matter is indisputable and, as proposed and as supplemented by the amendment we have proposed, I think it follows this decision. Whether this 15 per cent and a few per cent, which was by two or one colleague and one colleague, is somehow opposed in the sense that it is only 15% of all electoral beneficiaries enough to take this into account. I think it's unworthy to discuss it this way. Even if there were only 5% or less of them at the referendum and most would have decided as they would have been, we are obliged to respect each other as freely as possible. That's the way it is. Everyone had the opportunity, everyone could attend this referendum and anyone else. The sovereign right of those who did not take part is that they left the decision to those who had been Tangled. I do not see any particular ideology on these issues, as has been pointed out in this debate in these amendments. I can't see her. I can't see her. Nor do I find it delicious to discuss the personal position of one of the Members in the former reference, because this is his position and he is sovereign to say it at any time and anywhere. And if ideology is in what one of the three-year-olds said to me a while ago, or you're finally going to adopt the law so that I can be home every single week. Be careful, at least for one week, because we, we are aware of this, do not shut down the stores on Sundays entirely, but in accordance with the referendum decision which left ten weeks and certain exceptions. And is the right of us as consumers stronger than this young mother’s right to take care of her family on Sundays? Is this right really stronger? Are you hoping to say this publicly and claim it? It is the same, but we will still be able to exercise our right. And she, if we don't make any changes, probably not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Blackach. Mr. Petan, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. So, since time is very short, I'm going to cut back a little bit, but I would say that we are exactly following the results of the referendum and also the law, at least as far as the surface is concerned, because there was a lot of talk about this. And if you're referring to 80 square meters by law, and now the 200 amendment, I can say that's exactly what this is. How's that? Lately, we have some other statistics, Samuel's statistics. After this stat, 200 is exactly the same as 80. And that is why I will support this amendment that we have drafted in the coalition because it is in the spirit of this new time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you. This concludes the list of applicants. I ask, does anyone else want to discuss, of course, of those Members who still have time available? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda or at the latest at 10:30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - On the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Intangible Diseases. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Mr. Bručan, Minister of Health, you have the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u82	Nice greeting, Mr President, honourable Members. I will shortly present a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on communicable diseases. This proposal of the law aligns the applicable law on communicable diseases with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia which decided that the law was inconsistent with the Constitution because it did not regulate or regulate the procedure and rights of the injured with regard to the determination of the legitimate grounds for the exemption of compulsory vaccination and because it does not regulate the State's liability for the damage suffered by individual persons as a result of compulsory vaccination. This proposal lays down five points. First time. The procedure for determining the grounds for the exemption of compulsory vaccination shall be laid down, allowing the victims to exercise their rights. The draft law lays down precisely the procedure for determining the reasons for the exemption from vaccination, which could make the health status of the person worse. The reasons shall be determined by the physician who inoculates a person with a check-up and with a view to his or her medical records. However, the reasons do not include acute illness or a person’s fever. For both purposes, vaccination should only be suspended. In the second paragraph, the draft law regulates the rights of an individual with regard to procedures, remedies and bodies as regards the decision on the existence of grounds for suspension of compulsory vaccination and the position of the person subject to compulsory vaccination of his or her parents or guardian. The proposed law also specifies those who may make a proposal for exemption from vaccination. The proposal for exemption or non-vaccination shall be decided by the Minister of Health on the basis of this proposal. In the decision-making process, the Minister must obtain the expert opinion of the vaccination committee composed of medical experts. Decisions of the Ministry of Health allowing the release of vaccination or the release of vaccination shall be given to the physician and the person to be vaccinated, or to her parents or guardians, if she is underage or incapacitated. No appeal is allowed against this decision. Of course, an administrative dispute is allowed. Third point: The proposal for a law governs liability for damages resulting from compulsory vaccination and is suffered by an individual. The draft law introduces the possibility of exercising this right. The right can therefore only be exercised if two conditions are met, that damage to the health of a person has been caused, which is reflected in a serious and permanent decrease in life functions and that a causal link between health-related harm and compulsory vaccination has been established. The bill also sets out the amount of compensation to be paid in a single amount. The right of such compensation shall be decided by the Health Minister on the basis of the opinion of the Commission, which shall identify this causal link between vaccination and damage and the opinion of the disability commission, the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, which shall determine whether it is a serious and permanent reduction in life functions. Any damage to which the State is objectively responsible shall be settled for the payment of the compensation. The proposed law specifically lists vaccination against haemophilus influenza B as mandatory vaccination. By 2000, compulsory vaccination of children against haemophilus influenza B was carried out only in the event of an indication or in the opinion of the specialist physician. The results of targeted epidemiological monitoring of the disease provide important information on the frequency and characteristics of this disease in us, justifying the need for mandatory vaccination against haemophilus influenza B for all children aged three months. This vaccination has been carried out by many other countries around the world with a similar incidence in children. Compulsory vaccination against haemophilus influenza B for children was introduced by the immune and chemotherapy programme in 2002, 2001 and 2000 on the basis of a provision in the law that vaccination against other communicable diseases is mandatory if there are certain epidemiological reasons. The vaccination has had a significant impact on the reduction of various infections with haemophilus influenza B bacteria, which have recently left children below 5 years of age almost out of disease. And the last point he'll want to explain. The draft law provides that the vaccination of children against tuberculosis is only mandatory if there are specific epidemiological reasons and if this is the case with the annual vaccination and protection programme. As in many other countries, it would also make sense to leave the compulsory vaccination of children after tuberculosis in Slovenia. Such a decision required the fulfilment of the criteria set by the Union to combat tuberculosis. Given the decline in the number of patients with tuberculosis in Slovenia in recent years, it is estimated to be below 0.1% in Slovenia. Since 2005, the compulsory vaccination against tuberculosis has only been for newborn mothers who have undergone active tuberculosis during pregnancy or during childbirth and for newborn mothers from families who have moved from countries with a high incidence of tuberculosis in the last 5 years prior to their birth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ljub Germić, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 7th regular meeting, on 1.12.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on communicable diseases submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a reduced procedure. At its 41st regular meeting on 11.11., the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Members and members of the Committee received a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on social activities, comments from the Free Decision Society, comments from the Tibetan Buddhist Congregation and comments from the Hindu religious community. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, and has drawn up specific comments to Articles 3 and 4 from a legislative and technical point of view and to a proposal for a law. In its opinion, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission for Social Activities, expressed support for the bill. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Andrej Bručan, Minister of Health, gave an introductory explanation to the draft law. He pointed out that the Constitutional Court had found that the law on communicable diseases was inconsistent with the Constitution because it did not regulate the procedures and rights of those affected with regard to the identification of legitimate grounds for suspension of compulsory vaccination. Because it does not regulate the State's liability for damages when it is suffered by an individual for compulsory vaccination. The bill thus removes any irregularities found and also aligns criminal provisions with the law on offences. However, in the context of the Ministry of Health’s compensation liability for damage caused by compulsory vaccination or when the State has identified itself as a duty of vaccination, it is the opinion of the company that it has also been identified as taking full responsibility for the consequences. These responsibilities and compensations should be the responsibility of the State, not civil action or civil action. The representatives of the Ministry of Health responded to the comments and some members of the Committee also expressed their concerns about the proposals made by SVOD. The members of the committee then proceeded to the vote on the amendments tabled. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal Service and the comments of SPOT, the Committee drafted and adopted an amendment to Article 3. The members of the Committee supported the amendments of SDS, SLS, SNI and DeSUS to Articles 3 and 4 of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law which forms an integral part of this report. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Germich. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on communicable diseases is, as it is understood, the result of a decision by the Constitutional Court, which has found that there is a lack of conformity with the Constitution, because the law does not regulate the procedure and rights concerning the determination of justified grounds for suspension of compulsory vaccination and not the State's liability for the damage that an individual may suffer as a result of vaccination. The Group of Social Democrats agrees with the proposal to remedy the shortcomings and thus the non-compliance of the existing law with the Constitution. The bill sets out who can make a motion for suspension of vaccination and how the proposal decides. There is also a procedure for the follow-up of those who do not agree to the decision. It also introduces the right to compensation for damage caused to a person by compulsory vaccination. In addition, the law's proposal for compulsory vaccination specifically lists vaccination against haemophilis influenza B and against tuberculosis in children as mandatory only if there are certain epidemiological reasons and if this is the case with an annual programme of vaccination and protection with medicinal products. We have also received comments from the Freedom of Decision Society from the Social Democrats Group, which points to the shortcomings of the proposed law. Some might be forced to attach. For example, the solution proposed in Article 22b, when determining the composition of the vaccination commission to which the Minister is to appoint three independent medical experts. The law could also contain solutions proposed in some other articles. In any case, the solution in a law that does not provide for the written consent of parents is appropriate. Given the low risk, a written consent would be to needlessly intimidate parents. For some time, public debates have been held on the usefulness and harmfulness of compulsory vaccination. In practice, preventive action has proved to be an effective tool in preventing the spread of deadly infectious diseases. Unfortunately, sometimes there are side effects. There are ideas on the introduction of a conscientious objection to vaccination. This could be to the detriment of minors. If parents did not want to vaccinate them, they could be severely affected by the health of their children. As an example, children’s paralysis is cited. Adult people could also pose a health threat to other residents if they were not vaccinated, for example when traveling to countries with communicable diseases. This law regulates very sensitive content. This proposal is only a partial intervention into the existing law. Since the laws are not eternal, we will continue to amend them, including today's ones. By adopting this bill, we will join the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you very much! Nice greetings from the President, the Minister, professional colleagues, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on Infectious Diseases legitimizes general and specific measures to prevent communicable diseases which must be provided by the State in accordance with the general social benefit for the health of the population. These measures include compulsory vaccination, the primary purpose of which is to establish as much collective immunity as possible and to prevent the spread of communicable diseases. In cases of compulsory vaccination, it is an intervention in human rights to decide for himself, but it is essential to achieve a constitutionally permissible objective in the prevention and control of communicable diseases. Data from the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia shows that one person has had serious or lasting health consequences in the last ten years due to compulsory treatment. It's a tragic consequence for an individual, his family. Therefore, because of this conflict between the obligation of the individual to be vaccinated and the benefit of the wider society, certain additional rights of the individual must also be introduced into the law. This is ultimately imposed by the Constitutional Court. The bill opens the door and provides that, in addition to the doctor, parents or guardians of the minor after the amendment may propose to leave the vaccination, as well as the legal representative on the committee, which we support in Nova Slovenija. It's a basic duty and it has to be on a doctor. This should determine whether there may be no grounds for suspension of vaccination, which could result in permanent deterioration of the health status of the person. The proposed suspension of vaccination shall be submitted to the opinion of the 3 member expert committee appointed by the recognised experts. The Minister shall issue this decision. This will address the shortcomings identified by the Constitutional Court when the Commission acted only as an advisory body but did not issue any decisions. By giving the opportunity, after the amendment of the law, to be issued by the Minister of Justice, it will also be sufficient for the first paragraph of Article 23 of the Constitution, under which everyone has the right to decide on his rights and duties in court. The Minister's decision on the existence or absence of grounds for suspension will therefore be subject to an administrative dispute. Thus, legal protection will be provided at the stage of the decision on the grounds for temporary or permanent suspension. Thus far, parents have only been given a party's role in the procedure within the framework of an inspection procedure or an infringement procedure in which they have fallen if the child has not been allowed to be vaccinated. Nor has the law so far regulated the rights of affected persons in relation to compensation for the damage caused by the side effects of vaccination. The principle of solidarity, which, inter alia, forms the basis for the decision of the compulsory measure, requires that the State which imposes such a measure in favour of everyone and anyone who is affected compensates the individual for the damage caused to him. We therefore support the solution of the country's objective compensation responsibility. The State shall, under this law, guarantee compensation for cases where the vaccination procedure has been carried out professionally and where the vaccine is of quality or condition. There was a lot of debate on this on the parental committee. In particular, representatives of the Freedom of Decision Society considered that the provision should be unconditional. However, these concerns are rejected by the fact that there is already a liability for compensation, which is assessed under civil law rules, even in cases of damage resulting from the misconduct or irregularities of professionals or the result of quality vaccination. The damage caused by this law is considered to be serious and lasting consequences. In principle, however, the person who has been vaccinated has the right to compensation. Then did it go off or is it six years long enough? In the New Slovenia Group, we trust the knowledge of the profession, which notes that it is an appropriate deadline, and also after comparative legal regulation, we can confirm that this is a long enough time. There is no money that would be proportionate to the loss of health, but the law also made sense to determine the amount of reimbursement of affected persons. Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - Christian People's Party supports changes in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! By decision 12.2.2004, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided that the law on communicable diseases is inconsistent with the Constitution, because, above all, it does not regulate the proceedings and rights of the injured in relation to the determination of the legitimate grounds for suspension of the compulsory vaccination and because it does not regulate the State's liability for the damage suffered by an individual on the grounds of compulsory vaccination. The proposal for a law thus eliminates any irregularities found and also aligns criminal provisions with the law on offences. Furthermore, the law makes it mandatory to include vaccination against haemophilus influenza B as a compulsory vaccination. It is further stipulated that the vaccination of children against tuberculosis is only mandatory if there are specific epidemiological reasons and if this is the case with an annual vaccination and drug protection programme. Furthermore, the law regulates the procedure for determining the grounds for suspension of compulsory vaccination, which enables victims to exercise their rights, governs the rights of the individual with regard to procedures, remedies and the authority with regard to the decision on the existence of grounds for suspension of compulsory vaccination. Furthermore, it governs the position of the person subject to compulsory vaccination of his or her parents or guardian. It also regulates liability for damage caused by compulsory vaccination and is suffered by an individual. Finally, it aligns criminal provisions with the law on offences. However, with regard to the adoption of the law, we have received quite a few proposals from citizens who are linked to individual societies and which would in some way suggest that they be taken into account. Thus, we have received the opinion of the Freedom of Decision Society, which would like to make some changes in the law. Among other things, I find it interesting that they even propose to supplement the law with the possibility of objecting to vaccination. Amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases should be noted that, according to patients associated with hepatitis C, treatment and compensation are also not adequately regulated in health legislation. Many have been infected in treatment procedures, either because of blood transfusions or blood products. Perhaps it is true that such matters are handled in too partial ways. Why is it happening, and why is it necessary for citizens in the Constitutional Court to exercise their rights instead of allowing the adoption of laws to take more closely into account the opinion of consumers, in this case of patients? When adopting laws relating to such sensitive areas that are even defined as constitutional rights, we should take more time and consider solutions, even though it is a reduced procedure and a change of law. Health is the highest value and adequate treatment is the basis of the right of every citizen, so legislation should provide for opportunities for all. Further taking such opinions into account, we will support this law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government! In fact, I will begin where the previous speaker said that everyone has the right to treatment, to health, as well as obligations, at least as regards the law on changes and additions to the law on communicable diseases, or the obligation to treatment or vaccination for communicable diseases. Finally, the prevention of infectious diseases is the care of the entire nation, for the entire Slovenian nation. That is why I will continue to ask the question of whether or not to bring an objection to the conscience into this law. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the objection to conscience is not taken into account, at least not in that part, which speaks of compulsory vaccination, because we can ask ourselves here peacefully, but who will answer if the possibility of conscientious objection is taken into account and God does not let an epidemic occur. Who will pay compensation for this diametrical counteraction? It is right that the government reacts in such a way as to comply with the mandate or recommendation, however you wish to see a constitutional court. It is correct that the law has been supplemented by reasons that are objective, allowing for suspension of compulsory vaccination, i.e. objective reasons. And that the new law also regulates the State's liability for compensation. It is also right to specify the compulsory vaccination for a disease which is found to be common or common in the Republic of Slovenia. Now eliminating mandatory vaccination against tuberculosis, if it is based on some statistical data, possibly based on a large sample, even though it would not be wrong if - this is the opinion of the Slovenian National Party of course - compulsory vaccination against tuberculosis remained. However, I expect, in the later part, a response from the drafters of this law. In fact, we don't fully understand Article 4. In the first paragraph, so Amendment 4 of Article 4 refers to a person who, by compulsory vaccination under this Act, suffered harm to his health in order to be entitled to compensation. In the third paragraph, it reads 'as damage referred to in the first paragraph, no damage resulting from professional irregularities or inadequate quality of the vaccine shall be considered'. In our view, this is actually the same thing. For how can harm occur if not because of professional conduct or because of inappropriate vaccine? I don't see any other reason. So it's pointless to separate those two things. In fact, it's even a matter of marriage. Because if someone, if a doctor - for example - does not realize that someone is allergic or that his body does not tolerate a vaccine for compulsory vaccination, it is called non-professional treatment. And if the vaccine is wrong, poor quality or anything else wrong with it, it is also due to mandatory vaccination. I fear that this fourth article leaves too much room in these doubles for the six-year deadline when someone is now suing because Article 4 is separating, one consequence separates from the other, and all of this is actually due to non-professional behaviour. So I would ask that we think very carefully about this Article 4. I estimate that this article can be very speculative. In the Slovenian National Party, in particular, we assess that it is good to issue a decision in the opinion of the expert commission, which has not yet been issued. That's very good. We believe that such a decision could also be issued by a designated and statutory expert commission. I speak, of course, in your best interests, Mr Minister, that you should not be overburdened because, of course, these gentlemen are probably highly qualified. But if it's written down to be betrayed by a minister, it's certainly a very good move. On the basis of all of this, we will also support the law on amendments and additions to the law on communicable diseases in the Slovenian National Party if we have doubts about Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr Vasja Klavora will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. In our parliamentary group, we will support the government's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on communicable diseases. The reason for the amendment of the law on communicable diseases was undoubtedly the finding by the Constitutional Court that the law in question was inconsistent with the Constitution. Indeed, the law now in force did not regulate the rights of those who refuse compulsory vaccination and decided on the responsibility of the State in the event of health injury resulting from vaccination. The purpose of this proposal is to put these identified irregularities, as stated in the Constitutional Decision, into law. The substance of the proposed law is, therefore, the regulation of the procedure and the rights relating to the right to a health exemption on the basis of the expert opinion of the committee responsible, the final decision of the Minister, and the provision for the enforcement of compensation for persons who have suffered a serious and permanent reduction of their functions as a result of compulsory vaccination, on the basis of the expert reasoned and reasoned opinion of the Commission on Vaccination and the ZPIZ Commission. In our Group of Members, if a country is defined as a compulsory vaccination, it must also take full responsibility for the consequences that have arisen, not only for the consequences of good vaccines and procedures. Therefore, in the case of compulsory vaccination, the State shall provide or guarantee appropriate compensation. For example, let me say that civil law applies to cases of misconduct of professional staff. From the point of view of the way in which compensation is handled, we stress or advocate a more precise and clear view of the competent. In particular, we note the precise definition and determination of professional competences, which also include appropriate responsibility and appropriate sanctions. We believe that compulsory vaccination is carried out by a professionally qualified person in accordance with the doctrine and quality of the vaccine. In fact, the proposed law governs only those damages caused by damage to the health or even death of a person if the vaccination has been carried out in a professional, proper manner and with a quality vaccine, and nevertheless there has been damage to health or even death. The State or legislator shall lay down procedures for the exercise of the State's responsibility or for the enforcement of compensation. In the case of compulsory vaccination, the State cannot waive liability in the light of any consequences of vaccination or any reason for the health of the individual precisely because it does not allow for freedom of decision. It seems important to us that vaccination in Slovenia does not remain routine because of the vaccination obligation and that the approach to compulsory vaccination is considered professionally. In our view, it is necessary to analyse and professionally examine all the circumstances, factors before vaccination is carried out, which the State prescribes or establishes as mandatory. At all times, however, the State must establish a secure state. We agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which proposes the expert opinion of the Commission, both the existence and the absence of reasons for the suspension of the vaccine. As I said in the introduction, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on communicable diseases. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Clavori. Mr Franc Jazbec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the amendment of the law on communicable diseases. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia ruled by decision that the law on communicable diseases was inconsistent with the Constitution because it did not regulate the proceedings and rights of those affected with regard to the determination of the legitimate grounds for suspension of compulsory vaccination and because it did not regulate the State's liability for the damage suffered by an individual for compulsory vaccination. The purpose of the proposed amendment to the law on communicable diseases is also to take into account the content of that decision by the Constitutional Court. Article 22 of the Law on Infectious Diseases provides for compulsory vaccination, specifying that a doctor who carries out the vaccination must first identify any reasonable grounds for suspension of vaccination. The existence of permanent, well-founded reasons shall be decided upon by the Commission appointed by the Minister responsible for health. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia contains the principle of voluntary treatment, stressing that the right to refuse treatment is not absolute. The legislation therefore lays down cases where treatment is possible without the consent of an individual. Vaccination is one of the health measures in which interference with individual physical integrity is inevitable. In doing so, it is essential to weigh between the rights of the individual on the one hand and the public interest in protecting the health of the population on the other. In its decision, the Constitutional Court stated that the legislator had a legitimate, legitimate objective to intervene in human rights. With a rigorous proportionality test, the Constitutional Court has at the same time ruled on whether such conduct was in accordance with the principles of the rule of law, whether the intervention of the State is necessary or whether it achieves the objective pursued and whether the gravity of the interference with human rights is proportionate to the value of the pursuit of the objective. In its decision, the Constitutional Court explains that the benefits of compulsory vaccination for the treatment of an individual and the wider community outweigh the weight of the consequences. Access to the constitutional rights of the individual. In order to harmonise the content of the Constitutional Court decision, the advantage of the amendment is governed by the procedure and rights of those affected with regard to the identification of justified grounds for suspension of compulsory vaccination. The State's liability for the damage suffered by an individual as a result of compulsory vaccination shall also be governed. The new law on communicable diseases provides for mandatory vaccination. With particular reference to vaccination against haemophilus B. It provides that the vaccination of children against tuberculosis is compulsory only if there are certain epidemiological reasons and if this is the case with an annual programme of vaccination and protection with medicinal products. At the same time, it also regulates the procedure for determining the grounds for suspension of compulsory vaccination, which enables victims to exercise their rights, to regulate the rights of the individual with regard to the proceedings of legal remedies and of the body with regard to the decision on the existence of grounds for suspension of compulsory vaccination. At the same time, it regulates the position of the person subject to compulsory vaccination of his or her parents or guardians. It regulates liability for damage caused by compulsory vaccination and is suffered by an individual. And finally, it coordinates the criminal provisions with the law on offences. On the basis of these key points and the proposal for a legal novel, the primary aim of which is to protect public health, we will support the amendment of the law on communicable diseases in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Jazbec. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you for saying so, Mr President! Nice hello to you all again. Amendments and additions to the law on communicable diseases are subject to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. And the above text, which is before us this time, eliminates these inconsistencies. In addition, in the course of the solutions submitted, the proposal of the law, as a compulsory vaccination, specifically lists vaccination against haemophilus influenza B and provides that vaccination of children against tuberculosis is only compulsory where there are certain epidemiological reasons and, where the annual vaccination and protection programme so provides for medicinal products, governs the position of the person subject to compulsory vaccination of her parents or guardian and coordinates the criminal provisions with the offence law. In the LDS, we will support amendments and additions to the law on communicable diseases, which enter into the text of the basic law of correction in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision. According to the expert and general assessment, vaccination has contributed significantly to the increase in the level of health of the population and has contributed to the absence of epidemics or even isolated cases of certain infectious diseases for years. We therefore support regulated vaccination by the State, as many countries regulate vaccination in one way or another. At one of the last World Health Organisation conferences, several countries that currently have only recommended and optional vaccinations, while regulating vaccinations differently, have expressed the need to introduce and extend "binding vaccination or other means of regulation". However, niches of the unvaccinated population are emerging, which, in the case of highly contagious diseases such as measles, always pose a potential risk for enlargement. In practice, this is demonstrated by persistent or occasional epidemics, which exacerbate the health status of a particular part of the population, require a significant loss of working days and means of control. We agree with the expert opinion that the purpose of compulsory vaccination is to prevent the spread of communicable diseases, since this ensures collective protection of the population against communicable diseases, and therefore, in exercising its right, the individual cannot rely on the protection against the spread of communicable diseases to be provided by others who will be subject to vaccination. According to the expert opinion, the risk for an individual to suffer from a medical disability due to vaccination is significantly lower than the risk that the disease itself would pose, which could have worse consequences than vaccination. The suspension of compulsory vaccination would pose a high risk if this rate of pre-vaccination fell below the critical limit, the recurrence of communicable diseases and epidemics. These consequences would be inappropriate for the health or life of people, such as the risk of health problems that occur exceptionally after vaccination. That amendment merely aligns the text with the decision of the Constitutional Court, warning that the law should be rewinded in its entirety. Given the promise of the Minister of Health that amendments to this law are being prepared at the Ministry of Health in other areas, I will only draw attention, on behalf of the LDS Club, to the provisions of the law in the light of the latest developments that have taken place in the purchase of the operating tables associated with the commissions appointed by the Minister. I would like to draw attention to the articles on the vaccination commission and the causation committee between compulsory vaccination and the remaining damage. The law does not define the composition of the commission. She's under the authority of the minister. However, it is the responsibility of the Minister to avoid the conflict of interest which a person who is employed in an organisation dealing with the import, sale or distribution of vaccines could have with a sub-legal act. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the complementary proposal of the law, but we believe that due to some open issues the law will still need to be improved in the direction of the comments made, while at the same time any further changes commit that whenever it comes to decisions that change the life of a child or an adult, especially his health, we will always think carefully about when we are really doing what is responsible and for his well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Germich. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 14th item of the agenda or at the latest at 10:30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GENERAL GOVERNMENTAL PROCEDURE LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you. Dear Members and Members! While the bill is subject to minor changes and additions, it will have an important impact in efforts to facilitate the operations of citizens through administration and to facilitate access to legal services. With the aim of removing administrative barriers, we have drawn up two new solutions in the novel, namely the legal basis for the so-called single entry points, which allow the parties to make a valid investment in applications also at the entry points, which also provides the parties with all the necessary information on the implementation of the specific procedure. By doing so, we are applying the principle of everything in one place, as we already know it in the operating system of E-vem and I know. The other novelty simplifies the authorisation for service in a way that allows the party to authorise the other person to take over the document on its behalf. Based on the principle of friendly administration, the proposed amendment to the work relating to the acceptance of an application at a single entry point establishes the legal basis for determining so-called physical single entry points. Indeed, the State Administration Act has already provided such a basis for so-called electronic entry points. For example, the E-Government web portal is defined as a single entry point for the transmission of information of a public nature and for the provision of electronic services. At the physical single entry points, users will be able to obtain all the necessary information without having to go to the competent authority. A single entry point will not only create a more user-friendly environment, but will also make the operation of the body more efficient to a certain extent. The experience from the project I know shows that when applications are submitted through so-called single entry points with the help of the advisors there, they significantly reduce formal errors and the authorities can start processing immediately without calling on the party to remedy the deficiencies at the outset. The waiting line is decreasing and the exchange of documents in further procedures is also possible. As regards the service, it should be noted that in the past, the General Administrative Procedure Act had known a solution requiring a party who had been absent for more than 30 days to deposit the address of the service provider at the post office of its permanent residence. However, since such service has not been specified in more detail, there has been an increasing incidence of abuse, in the way that customers at the post office have deposited powers that have been made available to persons who did not actually exist. Today's arrangement prevents customers who cannot personally take over the document from obtaining a document through a potential indirect service officer who would have exercised authority at the place of service. For today it is not possible to perform a personal service to anyone who is not explicitly listed on the envelope as the addressee of the consignment. The parties may appoint the service provider only by informing the authority in charge of the procedure. This means, in fact, that in procedures conducted on an official basis and without consideration being completed by issuing an administrative act, for example, a decision on the deduction of income, the authorising officer cannot be practically appointed, since in such cases the parties do not know that the authority is deciding on their rights. Such arrangements are not in the interest of either the country or the party and, of course, are inadequate, too harsh and inanimate. With the amendment of the law, we want to enable the party to exercise its role in service in all administrative procedures. A general mandate will allow for the unhindered acquisition of documents. The authority itself will not need to be verified. In order to reduce the possibility of misuse of such powers, it is proposed that such service be carried out only after the tenderer has verified the identity of the authorising officer and the latter must be shown by means of a photograph issued by the national authority. The service provider will have to write on the service room the personal name of the holder and the document number, thereby facilitating the procedure for proving the performance of the service. In the introduction, I mentioned that there are small changes that have important effects. Therefore, at the end of the day, allow me to base this claim on the concrete information we have received in the framework of the already defined I know. The strategic objective of the project, based on the focus of public administration on users and the creation of a friendly environment for the development of entrepreneurship, sought to improve electronic support for relations between entities within and outside public administrations through the use of modern information and communication technologies and by improving the service of legal and natural persons, with greater accessibility to public administration services and the rationalisation of legal processes. Today, the VEM system allows a future independent entrepreneur to, at one point, one day, enter an enterprise into a business register, transmit tax data, at the same time, to report health insurance obligations, to record other necessary changes that are linked to the business register itself. More than 200 active physical points are included in the entry points system. A total of 480 respondents were trained to provide assistance at the entry points. From July to the end of November, more than 9 thousand 400 transactions were made. In short, the data show that the decision under the single entry points is the right path to an even more successful and effective public administration. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Rep, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Public Administration. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Once again a nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry. At its 14th regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act as a working body. In a complementary explanation of the bill, the representative stressed that the amendments were proposed mainly with the aim of removing administrative barriers, thereby facilitating the management of citizens and simplifying access to administrative services. The representative of the Legal Service presented their opinion, in which she commented in particular on Article 1 of the bill. The record of the proposed new resolution of Article 64 of the General Administrative Procedure Act was still rather unclear before we corrected it with the amendment, according to the legislature, in particular in terms of what a single entry point represents and how it is possible to operate through it. We supported the proposed amendment of the law in the debate and the members of the committee, because we thought that the additions would make an important contribution to rationalising the administrative process. The proposed solution is welcome, but it is important for users not only to have a legal provision, but also to be well informed about the existence of this form of communication with the administration. In view of the discussion of the members of the Committee and the comments made by the legislative service, the representative of the proposer proposed to the Committee the adoption of an amendment to address the concerns expressed regarding the clarity of the legislative text. With regard to the question of the need to define the possibility of access to administrative services through single entry points, however, the representative of the applicant explained that the provision was important in particular in the light of the applicable provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, which provides for the application to be made to the authority responsible for admission. In this case, it is a new form of deposit through the single entry points, which are physical points. The authorities carrying out the tasks of the single entry points shall, however, be obliged to submit these applications to the competent authorities. The Committee, like its two amendments, adopted and adopted all the articles of the law together.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u103	Mrs Kuclereva, you can stay as a speaker and I invite you to present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Two, according to the New Slovenia parliamentary group - the Christian People's Party, according to the scope of the minor amendment of the law, are very important. In practice, so far, many awkward situations have occurred when family members wanted to take over a document that they could not because of the absence of one of the family members or household because of a lot of non-life provisions of the law. However, amendments and additions to Article 89 of the Administrative Procedure Act allow for the taking of documents if the party first authorizes someone as an authorised party and after a new certificate of signature is not necessary. The authorising officer will have to demonstrate himself with the authority and with the relevant document, with the photograph, and clearly from the authority it must be made clear who authorizes whom and why it authorizes him. The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article. In this way, the authorising officer may take over documents where they are served with a legal or natural person who is served with documents or, for example, at the post office, as well as with the authority, for example, in the tax administration. This provision will facilitate the adoption of documents and we endorse them in our Group of Members. However, the following amendment concerns the lodging of applications. In the framework of the national portal, the E-Government is already operating an electronic administrative service. Residents and legal persons who own online certificates may receive more than 30 different types of forms by electronic means, including administrative fees can be paid by electronic means. The service allows you to monitor the status of the case in the administrative unit and for business entities already existing portal I know - All in one place allows you to register a single entrepreneur, an individual in one place. This is the kind of service that we want to do in our citizens. Due to time constraints, working time in administrative units and other reasons, it is sometimes difficult to come personally to the administrative unit, so the possibility of these services is more than welcome. However, we must not forget, nor should those who do not have the opportunity or knowledge to use electronic services or modern technology be in a less favourable position. The problem also arises when citizens do not know which body is competent to deal with a particular application, so there is still a welcome amendment to the law that we are adopting today and simplifies the possibility that the parties can play an role with any authority that performs the tasks of single entry points. It shall, however, have the duty to transmit it to the competent authority. In Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party we believe that the proposed changes will make it easier for citizens and citizens to operate with administrative authorities and, above all, they will be spared a wide range of routes and running from one state authority to another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. Mr Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposed amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act, which will help citizens and citizens to have access to administrative services with the possibility of filing applications at single entry points. While the proposed solution is welcome, good information in the existence of this form of communication with the public administration is more important to users than the legal ones. In our opinion, however, the unnecessary obstacle to the use of E services is excessive security and identification requirements related to secure electronic signatures. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the Minister of Public Administration in his efforts to bring public administration closer to the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mr Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! In the Slovenian National Party, we welcome the intention and purpose to simplify certain procedures with which citizens, citizens, Slovenians and Slovenians meet. We welcome the will and desire that the so-called always "good" - at least people say so - administrative institutions that people do not like want to approach people, but we still have two questions in the Slovenian National Party, two questions to which - I hope - I will get answers from a gentleman representing the government. First of all, the claim that, with a general mandate not limited to a specific procedure, someone authorises another person to take over the documents on his behalf. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Parties, this definition of general authorisation is not sufficiently clear. What is this general authority, where and how can this general mandate be obtained, and what does this mean? Does this mean that I myself will write a letter to Bogdan Barovich, authorizing my wife, for example, to take over the post office in 2006, because I am very often on my way? Is this a mandate that I have to verify with the notary and is valid for the whole year? For, see if the person y comes with a general mandate, which is written on the hand - say - to the post office or to the court or wherever it already is and there it says: "Goddan Barovic authorizes the wife, Marina Barovic, born and so on" and I sign. How does one who, on the basis of his authority, will be served with some kind of mail that I have actually signed? That's the first question. However, the second scepticism and proposal of the Slovenian National Party in the drafting of this law is even more important. Thus, we estimate that the matter was served and that the time limit for the complaint begins to run when the person entrusted is served. It means, the wife goes, raises - I'll say it now - recommended or the mail she sent me - let's say - the tax administration, with some conclusion and it says that I have a possibility of appeal - say - I mean, within eight days. But Bogdan Barovich will be gone 14 days from that day. I ask whether the authorising officer may also represent the authorising officer in further proceedings or not? And if not, why? If we are already drafting new legislation and putting in place a general mandate, this is not yet regulated by law. Because we didn't do anything. For example, if my wife takes over the mail, I should be complaining in eight days. I'm not. My wife can't. And what happens? Nothing. Actually, we didn't do anything. In the Slovenian National Party, we propose that, to the extent that this is not the case, the authorised authority may also, on the basis of a general mandate, continue to represent the authorising officer. I think it's imperative to do this in this law. We also estimate in the Slovenian National Party that the term single entry point is very strange. No offense, maybe we're wrong, you'll probably say. But first, when I read it, I read that these are some points, like the points that come together, that there's one, and there's two, and there's three. I don't know if it would be clearer or more specific to describe what it is and say to it - I don't know - an entry point or an entry office. We estimate that the term entry point is very ambiguous, very unclear. If we're in the middle of a lot of marriages, we should only know a little bit more, at least some. I don't think everyone's clear. I admit I haven't had an entry point since the beginning. I think it's going to be so much more difficult to understand for all those people. These, however, are not limited to take advantage of the general mandate offered by the Government by means of a proposal to amend and supplement the General Administrative Procedure Act. We've been a few criticals. I hope that we have been objective and, above all, intended to do something good. Once again, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would like to point out that it would be good for the Ombudsman to continue the authorisation procedure with a general mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Since the Secretary of State wanted a word, I must say you don't have one, Mr Secretary of State. However, I must mention that the comments, Mr Barovic, were not in place in this respect, because no amendments to the open article were made. As a result, there is no debate on the amended proposal for a law and the Secretary of State cannot respond to your initiative. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you. The proposal for a law amending the law on administrative procedure is not such that it raises a lot of controversy, a lot of concerns and also - as has already been said - no amendments have been made. The questions raised were already answered, even in writing. The one who read this material. The characteristic of this law is primarily that it regulates procedures that are daily and that are extremely massive. It is therefore good that, following a proposal from the government, the issue is being addressed by facilitating the implementation of these procedures as far as possible in order to facilitate work at both ends. Therefore, in those who invest, in parties, as in those who conduct these procedures, and in order to ensure certain security in these procedures. It turns out the law can also be played. In particular, the three novels and the latter, which were in place, allowed those who wished to do so to avoid their obligations and thus, virtually, to hide themselves from an obligation imposed on them by the administrative procedure. But in practice, those who deal with it have found a whole type of weakness, a flaw. They have proposed, in our judgment, that is, according to the opinion of the DeSUS Group, the correct changes that we also support. We support this so that it will now be facilitated to facilitate the acceptance of what one considers to be accepted by an authorising officer, to ensure that security is also ensured in such a way that it is necessary to properly identify the one appointed as the authorising officer and that the application will also be facilitated, as is the case for all administrative procedures, both in the public administration and in the administrative procedures that we conduct in local communities. Since the government is assessing, and we insist that this is to improve this law, Members of the DeSUS Group will support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! Representative of the government, colleagues, colleagues! We support the amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, as they are proposed primarily with the aim of removing administrative barriers, in order to facilitate citizens' business through administration and to facilitate access to administrative matters. The bill establishes a legal basis for the so-called single entry points, as they are called or 'one stop shops', as they are called abroad. On the website of the Ministry of Public Administration, we find an explanation that a single entry point is intended for both civil servants and citizens. For citizens, it is particularly important to assist in the transmission of electronic VAT and income deposits to legal and natural persons, to EUP applications to administrative units via the E Administration portal, to take over digital certificates online and to assist in the award of public contracts to legal persons. An example of such an operation is already the e-I know which allows interested parties to obtain the necessary information at the entry point and then make a valid application through this point if so decided. Therefore, since the proposed amendment or addition of Article 64 of the applicable administrative procedure law constitutes the application of the principle of the cost-effectiveness of the procedure, which is one of the basic principles of the administrative procedure, there is no reason not to support it. The contribution to the rationalisation of the administrative procedure is also a supplement to Article 89 of the Administrative Procedure Act, which allows the party to authorise the other person to take over the documents on its behalf, if for various reasons it is absent. This allows the party to exercise its will with regard to reporting. At the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the Committee adopted two amendments, which meant removing concerns about the clarity of the legislative text. Members and members of the home working body unanimously adopted the proposal for a law, which in particular shows the existence of a majority opinion that the proposed changes are good and important for the business of the clients of the administrative procedure. That is why we do not see any reasons in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group that would not go into this context and, of course, we will vote and support the proposed law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda or at the latest at 10:30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - This is the first defensive proposal of the law on medicinal products. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of sixteen Members, with their first signed Ljubo Germić, demanded that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Mr. Andrey Bručan, please! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u114	Mr President, honourable Members! Thank you so much for saying that. Medicines are one of the most regulated areas of European legislation because of their special importance in protecting the health of individuals, populations, animals and the environment. Sufficient supply of quality, safe and effective medicines and thus the protection of public health is therefore a fundamental principle in the development of legislation governing the field of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. The implementation of this principle must be achieved by means that will not hinder the development of the pharmaceutical industry or the transport of medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union, while at the same time encouraging competitiveness across the sector. The Medicinal Products Act is the legal basis for regulating the field of medicinal products which include the acquisition and association of marketing authorisations with medicinal products, the testing of medicinal products, the use of medicines, the marketing of medicinal products and the quality control of medicinal products and the official quality control. Slovenian legislation also recently introduces a European legal order in the field of medicinal products for human use in veterinary medicine and regulates certain areas which it leaves to Member States. The main reason for adopting the proposed drug law is the implementation of new or amended European legislation on medicines, which Member States should bring into their legal order by 30 October. The bill is also drafted in the sense of greater clarity of the existing provisions of the current Act on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices; and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Systemic changes and experience arising from the five-year period of implementation. [[...]] The European Union has adopted a package of drug legislation immediately before the last enlargement, which, inter alia, would allow a new way of organising work in all 25 Member States with regard to registration itself and increasing the competitiveness of the innovative and generic pharmaceutical industry with balanced regulatory approaches. The Medicinal Products Act consists of 117 articles, which are regulated in Chapter 14. Due to the complexity of the field of drug regulations, a greater number of sub-legislative acts are envisaged. Most of these have already been introduced by the current law on medicines and medical devices, but some of them will need to be adequately adapted before the proposed law is adopted. The main amendments to European legislation adopted by law are: strengthening cooperation between Member States, harmonising the period of exclusiveness of data that is the same for all medicinal products and preventing greater uniformity of the internal market, introducing a European reference product, allowing for the entry into the market of a generic medicinal product which can now refer to the reference product data anywhere in the European Union, the possibility of terminating the marketing authorisation for medicinal products, the strengthening of pharmacovigilance, this is a system for monitoring adverse drug effects and the suspension of the renewal of the marketing authorisation after the first renewal. Accurate identification of traditional herbal medicinal products and better understanding of the instructions for use for patients and the introduction of basic labelling in the font for the blind. Now there are some features of the provisions of the law that are within the competence of the Member State. Integrating the drug price area, which was part of the medicines law 1996. The bill includes the scope of medicines prices while one payment for medicines from public funds remains the subject of legislation governing health insurance. In the case of drug prices, the draft law introduces a flexible national system for the design and price of medicinal products, which builds on past positive experiences despite the use of comparative drug prices in selected European markets or markets of the European Union and a system of interchangeable health. The next item under the competence of the Member State is the professional competence requirements for persons who inform doctors and pharmacists of the properties of medicinal products in the context of the advertising of the professional public. The third point is the marketing of medicines for retail use, which is already regulated by the current Act on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices by selling certain medicines without a prescription in pharmacies, as well as in specialised retail stores. These are medicinal products of plant origin, for which the authority responsible for the medicinal products so decides. With a new proposal for a drug law, only those medicines without a prescription containing medicinal, effective and, above all, natural medicinal products should be issued in specialised shops, as well as less synthesized, semi-synthesis or biosynthesis, which are characterised by the relative integrity assessed by the competent drug commission and decided by the competent medicinal product authority. The Commission for Medicinal Products is an expert body composed of experts in the field of pharmaceuticals, medicine, pharmacology and other sciences. The new law also provides for the sale of medicinal products via the Internet, with the area being regulated by the Act on Pharmacy Activities in the [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u116	Nice greeting, once again, all of it! We are probably in agreement on the need to adopt a new drug law. There are several reasons for the need to adopt this law. Let me first focus on the level of the EU, which seeks to remove barriers to the free movement of medicines, at the same time enhance the safety and effectiveness of medicines, and increase the competitiveness of the pharmaceutical industry. With regard to these objectives, a number of acts covering that area have been adopted since 2001. EU regulations in this area should be transposed into their legislation by 30 October 2005. We are late to implement these directives, but the law is prepared in accordance with EU guidelines. However, there are a number of reasons in Slovenia, where it also dictates the necessity of a new legal regime in the field of medicines. It is important that we allow our pharmaceutical companies to export medicines to other EU countries, or to extend them more easily to the European market. It is even more important that we ensure a high level of protection of public health and animal health in Slovenia and that we exercise good control over medicines and increase their accessibility. The law requires systematic control of the production of medicinal products in Slovenia, which is also noted by the Association of Drug Manufacturers in Slovenia. Systemic regulation of this area can only ensure that analyses, certificates and other findings of the competent institutions for the control of Slovenian drug producers are recognised in other EU Member States. Of course, access to medicines is particularly important for our citizens and citizens. The medicines available must be of adequate quality. At the same time, we all want it to be as cheap as possible. The proposed law thus ensures or facilitates access to the generic drug market and provides a more systematic definition of the conditions for obtaining marketing authorisations for individual types of medicinal products. It is also important that the proposed law solves only urgent procedures and sets out key criteria and leaves more detailed regulation to sub-legislative acts, allowing for faster and effective adaptation of the rules to the new guidelines in the European Union. However, the proposed law will still need to be discussed on certain issues during the hearing in the National Assembly. For example, there are a number of concerns or differing opinions regarding the use of veterinary medicinal products and it will also be necessary to ensure better control of the use of veterinary medicinal products in VURS with regard to which medicinal products have received an assessment of their inadequacy. The proposed law is therefore, in our opinion, suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly and, through the procedure, it will be possible to supplement the law and bring it into line with the comments made by the professions which must be taken into account in this law in particular. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, once again welcome the representatives of the government and the minister! In the Slovenian National Party, we said thank God that the proposal for a drug law is in first reading and that it is going according to normal procedure. We respect intent and purpose. So the objective is, on the one hand, binding, so harmonisation with the European Union and, on the other hand, I understand, at least, if I look very well, I have this habit of wanting some improvements, such as improvements in the implementation of marketing authorisation procedures, such as more precise drug distributions, such as faster availability of medicines from seven months to four. However, as practice has shown in recent years, from 1992 onwards, I hope and wish that this law, given that it is at first reading, will not go forward, on the door to the nose, on the mind, as many laws have done in the past. Our claim, the claim of the Slovenian National Party is justified and has the basis. First time. Despite the fact that the draft law on medicinal products is in first reading and drafted by the Government, it is not good that, even when preparing for the first reading, the practitioner did not consult the expert. These are the facts. Second. In the Slovenian National Party, according to the possibility afforded in this first part by this law that certain medicines may be sold outside pharmacies, such ideology or such a way, we strongly oppose. There's more than one reason. The first is that I, with a respected colleague of surgeons, was the vice president of the National Council for a respected colleague in Russia, buying a cure for the cold and selling it in a store, so outside the pharmacy, there was a shopkeeper who didn't separate or chew on any of the drugs. I have experienced this on my own, this has been experienced by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, one of the colleagues of the National Assembly. Another time. Pharmacy, respected colleagues and colleagues, according to the nomenclature, is a medical, medical activity, not an economic activity, and this is a health primary activity. And today, medicines are sold by educated people who are called pharmacists who have a hard time studying and work hard, work hard to get their jobs, and have no doubt a very heavy responsibility, for any mistake in handing medicines to anyone, whatever is fatal. Third time. If we are already coordinating this law with European legislation, let me remind you of the Luxembourg Declaration when it calls for the reduction of the harmful effects arising from over-reception of medicines. If we put the drugs on the free market, in the "people will buy these drugs like candy and we will act in exactly the opposite of the Luxembourg Declaration". At the same time, it is already assumed that such a way of selling medicinal products would cause many harmful effects due to excessive, excessive use and non-professional use of medicinal products. Let me also say that a major problem has been demonstrated and proved in the UK as regards the withdrawal of medicines. In the UK, which is one of the rare countries and in addition to the Netherlands, in part Ireland, where drugs are sold just like that, it happened that after an emergency withdrawal of medicines, it was only three years before they started calling off the drugs that were, at least, listed in -- in some cases even life-threatening. In short, it is unacceptable for the Slovenian National Party to sell medicines just like candy, chewing gum or anything but, of course, the preventive means used by men. Finally, it should be said that when reviewing the drug law, the consistency of the two laws, the drug law and the public procurement law must be very carefully compared. These two, at least according to some experts, who - I hope - will be consulted by the government in the next procedure, are not in line. They are in disharmony, and at least what this National Assembly wants, is to adopt one law that will be inconsistent with another, which can slip through our fingers and then we will sue again and seek solutions for our mistakes. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a first-reading drug law, mainly for the reason that the drafter will engage in discussions and coordination with the expert and for the reason that, to the extent possible, we will be able to contribute and assist in the resolution of those things for which we estimate that they are not good in the Slovenian National Party. Once again, we call on the fundamental objective of aligning with the European Union and the European directives, not to overlook the Luxembourg drug declaration in further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u120	Dear Mr President, the Honourable Minister with his co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In principle, in the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposal for a drug law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and will therefore be supported. The need for the preparation and adoption of a new drug law regulating the use of medicinal products in human veterinary medicine is mainly due to the amended legislation of the European Union, which the Republic of Slovenia has to transpose into its legal order. This area is now governed by the law on medicines and medical devices. Given that medicines and medical devices in European Union legislation are dealt with according to different approaches, the DeSUS Group considers that the separation of these two areas makes sense. We agree with the proposal's conclusion that the proposal should improve the implementation of marketing authorisation procedures for medicinal products, authorisations for manufacturing and marketing of medicinal products, as well as clinical trial permits. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that a simplified registration procedure is needed for traditional herbal medicinal products and homeopathic medicinal products. In the Republic of Slovenia, two years ago we introduced a system for the use of generic medicines and the exchange of medicinal products. Given that our drug market is one of those with the largest proportion of generic medicines, we estimate that it is necessary to maintain the functioning of this system by means of a bill and create the conditions for its extension. It is therefore necessary to facilitate access to the generic drug market. At the same time, we believe that the promotion of innovation is also essential. We believe that the proposal for a law adequately regulates cooperation between the Member States of the European Union in the implementation of marketing authorisation procedures, in particular through mutual recognition and decentralised procedures for the exchange of information on medicinal products and in the clinical trial of medicinal products. There is no doubt that the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry is highly developed and has a high level of reputation in the world. However, the fact is that pharmacy activities, like others, will have to be adapted to market requirements, in a way and in an extent that will be most effective and at the same time rational for public health. In the parliamentary group, we agree with the proposed regulation of the rules on the labelling of medicinal products and instructions for use by also taking into account the needs of specific groups of people, such as the blind, and by introducing a verification of the understanding and instructions for use. We stress that, in regulating legislation in this area, the basic principle is sufficient to provide quality, safe and effective medicines and thus to protect public health and public interest. In accordance with this principle, however, we note the inadequacy of the proposed article that the sale of medicines that are issued without a prescription can also take place in pharmacies as well as in specialised shops. The latter would therefore mean that the issuing of medicines without a prescription is no longer under the direct control of a pharmacist who is personally and criminally responsible for his work, but would sell certain medicines to a person with a V degree of education, which is by no means qualified for information and advice on the use of medicinal products. Members of our Group remind us that greater availability of medicines is also associated with a greater risk of misuse and overuse of medicines and various preparations to the detriment of citizens' health. We certainly do not want Slovenians to buy more medicines needlessly or to eat more than is necessary to restore the body's health. And this is exactly what happens in countries like Britain and the Netherlands where the sale of prescription-free medicines is allowed outside pharmacies. We ask ourselves: In the event that people eat too many chemicals as is even allowed or recommended for safe health, who will take on the burden of additional costs for treatment, who will take responsibility for the completely professional mistakes that will occur in practice, who will take responsibility for any dead person who might appear without need? In addition, we believe that by means of the proposed regulation, the country favours the economic effects against the safety of the population and thus withdraws its hands from the protection of the citizen. In the field of drug consumption, this leaves you with the citizens, even though we know that they are not able to think about it professionally. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that such efforts to expand the distribution of medicines without prescription from pharmacies are unfounded and reflect only the economic interest of individual economic operators. Therefore, we propose that only traditional herbal medicines should be sold in specialised shops, and all other medicines should only be given in pharmacies, as before. In view of the above, my fellow Members and Members, I call on you, as a Member of the National Assembly, especially as a doctor, to consider this issue before you decide to take steps that may prove wrong, if not even tragic. Members of the DeSUS Group are of the view that the proposal for a law at the principal level is good and properly regulated, but point out that it is necessary to reconsider the arrangements for the sale of medicines outside pharmacies and, as a whole, we will also like to support it as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mrs Polonca Dobrajc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you for the floor, honourable Presidents, fellow Members, fellow Members! The main objective of the proposed drug law is to harmonise Slovenian legislation with the newly adopted Directives of the European Union and their transposition into the Slovenian legal order, which will in particular strengthen the high level of protection of public health and animal health, bring it closer to achieving the objective of the safe movement of medicinal products and remove barriers to trade without hindering the development of the pharmaceutical industry. It will also make it possible to rationalise and simplify the system of obtaining and maintaining marketing authorisations for medicinal products, as well as to increase competitiveness, innovative and generic pharmaceutical industries with balanced regulatory approaches. The proposed law thus lays down the conditions for achieving those objectives with provisions which, in particular, improve the implementation of marketing authorisation procedures, lays down a more precise distinction between medicinal products and other products in order to avoid doubts as to the application of legislation when a product corresponding to the definition of a medicinal product is also part of the definition of other regulated products. The ethical requirements regarding the implementation of good clinical practice in clinical testing of all medicinal products for human use are also taken into account, regardless of where they are carried out while taking into account the principles and guidelines of good manufacturing practice. The proposed law also provides for a more effective review of the actual presence of medicinal products on the market, with any marketing authorisation not followed by the arrival of a medicinal product within three consecutive years following the expiry of that period generally being withdrawn. It also enables the quality assurance of medicinal products by requiring the active substances to be used in the formulation of the medicinal product in accordance with the principles of good manufacturing practice for these medicinal products. The proposed law further allows for the adaptation of the rules on the labelling of medicinal products and instructions for use by taking into account the needs of specific groups - such as Braille, as well as by introducing a verification of the comprehensibility of the instructions for their use. In particular, the registration procedure for traditional herbal medicinal products is simplified to allow and facilitate the entry of such medicinal products into the market. It also prescribes a special simplified registration procedure for homeopathic medicinal products. However, as regards the transport of medicinal products for human use for retail use, it should be noted that according to the provisions of the law it takes place with appropriate professional support by consulting both in pharmacies and in specialised shops. In the context of retail transport, they may be in specialised shops - it is said - not in pharmacies, but in specialized shops only medicines not subject to medical or veterinary prescription, only those for which the authority responsible for the medicinal products is so designated. The method of issuing and issuing the related classification of these medicinal products will be defined in more detail by means of a sub-legislative act prescribed by the Minister responsible for health. The Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation therefore considers that the proposal for a drug law is appropriate for further consideration and will support it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Dobrajchev. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President! Mr. Director, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The current Act on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices regulates the scope of medicinal products as well as medical devices and is the basis for the issue of sub-legal acts and regulations. When regulating supply legislation with quality, safe and effective medicines, it is always necessary to have a fundamental principle before the eyes, namely public health protection. Therefore, the law governing the field of medicinal products for human and veterinary use in the LDS Group has been given special attention. We supported measures that have made an important contribution to the achievement of the objective of the free and safe movement of medicinal products and the removal of barriers to trade with them. In doing so, we supported the development of the pharmaceutical and drug industry with particular attention in terms of public health protection, through measures to promote competitiveness in both the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. In this regard, we support and welcome the introduction of new directives and regulations on the safety, efficacy and quality of medicinal products for both human and veterinary use and the promotion of greater competitiveness of the pharmaceutical industry. Simplifications concerning procedures for obtaining marketing authorisations for medicinal products, simplified registration of traditional herbal medicinal products and homeopathic medicinal products, the introduction of a European reference medicine, where the generic medicine will be easier to come to the market for mutual recognition between EU countries and the way in which the prices of medicinal products used are comparable prices in selected EU countries. In spite of the fact that the proposed text of the law constitutes primarily the implementation of the new EU legislation in the Republic of Slovenia, it should be transposed into its legal order by 30 October 2005, the legislative text also introduces solutions to increase the availability of medicinal products at national level, as well as solutions to enable the development and rationalisation of national regulatory structures in the field of medicinal products. In doing so, it should be noted that the proposed law governs only the field of medicines, but not medical devices, as their changing dynamics in the EU are different. Therefore, it will be necessary to amend the current law on medicinal products and medical devices in parallel with the Act on Medicinal Products. Although this law does speak of medicinal products, in our opinion it also interferes with other legal matters, as it does in the pharmacy law. It will therefore be necessary, if we adopt the law in such a text, to also regulate the individual content of this law in further procedures. Despite the fact that Member States have to implement the adopted EU legislation into national law, certain solutions to the proposed text of the law are still in the domain of national regulations. These include: retail sales, self-service and online sales, imports of medicinal products, pricing of medicinal products and their comparability and interchangeability. Among the definitions within the competence of individual Member States is the sale of medicines for retail use, which has triggered a number of controversy in the public eye in the last period. In the LDS, we support measures to increase competitiveness both between manufacturers and drug sellers, and we want to have clear answers as to how such sales measures will affect the protection of public health. The measure is introduced into the legal text by explaining that this will increase the availability of medicines without a prescription, while at the same time lowering their price, as announced by the Minister, to up to 30%. However, for that claim, the drafter does not refer to any study or other data that would substantiate these facts. But there is absolutely nothing to talk about the consequences of such a sale on public health protection. There are no facts to substantiate the claims made by the professional public which point out that such a solution is not appropriate. In the LDS, we do not know an assessment or study that will show the need to increase the supply of medicines without a prescription. There are also no reviews or assessments of the benefits and disadvantages of the planned changes and of the health and financial risk assessment due to potential overuse and misuse of medicines without a prescription. Thus, the question remains unanswered whether the existing pharmacy network does not actually provide adequate supply of medicines and whether the sale solution is appropriate for specialised shops. It is not possible to determine the rules for such a method of sale and, above all, the method of control. There is also an answer to the question whether the legislator estimates that the sale of medicines without prescription in specialised shops does not require advice to patients about the safe use of medicines even in self-medication, as it is prescribed that only a pharmaceutical technique should be used as a necessary education. In doing so, I would like to point out that it is also once again the question of whether the current government is lowering the required levels of education in all areas. Let us only remember the provisions of the catering law, where conditions for obtaining operating permits for hosting the hospitality activity have been reduced. The amendment has eliminated the requirements for the prescribed minimum level of professional education of persons performing work in catering activities. With regard to the required education for sale in specialised shops, it should be recalled that, in accordance with the directives of the European Union, the person providing advice on the use of medicinal products must meet the following conditions: successfully complete university studies of pharmaceuticals or other relevant studies providing at least five years of training from the areas of those Directives and at least six months of practical training at the pharmacy. Therefore, in the LDS, we believe that it is imperative to assess whether any damage that could have been caused by inadequate use of medicines could have been greater than the benefit of introducing competition if medicines without a prescription were sold at a lower professional level. There are studies that show that by lowering prices, uncontrollable accessibility and accelerated advertising there is a significant increase in the risk of overuse or misuse of medicines. Such studies also exist for paracetamol and acetylsalicylic acid. We therefore expect the bill to answer these questions clearly. However, at the LDS, we certainly agree with the assessment that monopolistic arrangements do not represent the best solutions. We therefore propose that the conditions of work and supervision should be set out in advance and that we decide to extend the network to specialised trade. For without strict supervision - it is necessary to be aware - the costs of remedying damage or the consequences of misuse of medicines could be reflected in the increase in health costs under compulsory health insurance and thus jeopardise its stability. This would be how the profits would approach individuals at the expense of all of us. It is known that Slovenians spend more money each year on medicines without a prescription. In 2003 - €363 million, in 2003 - €413 million. Otherwise, this figure represents around 7% of the total drug market, while the use of medicines is subject to a trend of stock accumulation and use after the expiry date. This is a systemic problem, a problem for prescribers, drug-producing pharmacists and pharmaceutical industries that even pre-aggressively advertise certain medicines. We take the Slovenians to our fists and create our own small pharmacies at home. With such characteristics, the Minister's questionable point is that, as one of the arguments, the price will be reduced due to lower sales costs, which are held by shops in contrast to pharmacies up to 30%. The fact is that producers only lower prices when they can earn more by increasing traffic than they have reduced the price. The discounts have exclusively marketing moves, so in the LDS Club we ask ourselves the question: Does such measures mean that we want Slovenians and Slovenians to buy and enjoy more medicines? In the LDS Club, we also assess, as a major failure of the law, the fact that regulatory authorities in the Republic of Slovenia are not regulated in a way that would allow for an equivalent comparison of arrangements in other European Union Member States. This has been noted recently by the EU inspection, and this problem has long been pointed out by the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry, for which the establishment of adequate systemic control over the production of medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia is essential. The law should therefore seek solutions where effective competition in an increasingly competitive global drug market and further growth would strengthen the pharmaceutical regulators of the Republic of Slovenia. We are also reminded of this problem by a letter from the Association of Producers of medicinal products of Slovenia, which speaks of the fact that when this issue is not regulated by medicines produced in Slovenia, we will no longer be able to export directly from Slovenia to other members. Each batch of medicinal products should therefore be further reviewed and released by the pharmaceutical inspection of the other Member States of the European Union. The production premises of the product manufacturers in Slovenia would also be checked by the national inspections of the EU Member States in which the products produced in Slovenia would be sold. In order to address the poor situation of the Slovenian regulation in the wider international area, the role of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia in medicinal products and medical devices should be rethought in law and therefore developed its appropriate role in cooperation with other European agencies in the implementation of EU regulatory procedures for medicinal products, which is subject to the legislation and development of Slovenian pharmaceuticals. The proposed text of the drug law is followed by legislation on the regulation of this area, which is why we support it in the LDS House of Members. At the same time, it also provides a series of provisions that are within the competence of individual Member States, which we estimate will need further consideration before final adoption in order to achieve the desired objective. This is to ensure the highest possible level of public health protection. In no way would we want the economic effects of a particular sector to have a negative impact on people's health. Such an approach is also in line with the Luxembourg Declaration on the Safety of the Patient, of which Slovenia is also a signatory. The Declaration clearly calls on all healthcare professionals to put in place mechanisms in all treatment processes that would reduce the number of errors due to the misuse of medicines to a minimum, as errors are reflected in the lower quality of healthcare and represent a high cost for the health system and the population. The proposed law only brings to Slovenia the main provisions of those Directives. It will define and regulate in more detail a number of sub-legislative rules. The deadline for their adoption is two years, with the exception of the Directives, which we also consider to be a weakness of this law in the LDS. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u126	Dear Minister, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! The first and main reasons for the adoption of the proposed drug law are, as has been the case with the European Union's legislation on medicinal products in the past. We need to include these changes in the proposed law and, of course, there is no objection to this. Of course, this time too, the bill-maker wants to include solutions that Europe does not ask of us. These are also hidden for the reason of the proposalr, when it is necessary to relax access to medicines. So they make it easier to access medication. Here, in this important reason for adopting this law, is the move of drug sales from pharmacies. In a comparative analysis, the applicant notes that medicines for which no prescription is required are available in most countries both in pharmacies and in specialised stores. Those where prescription-free medicines are sold in pharmacies are limited. Like few who sell medicines without a prescription outside pharmacies and specialized stores. If Slovenia were to judge around those countries where the sale of medicines without a prescription is outside the pharmacies of countries where the sale of medicines without a prescription is very limited outside the pharmacy, there would probably be nothing wrong, because in this case there are arguments to justify what is more important. On the one hand, the security of the individual. On the second, the availability of medicines that are sold without a prescription. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we give priority to the security of an individual who could be fatally threatened by the release of medicines without professional advice. This is about human health. It is a treatment that must not become subject to market logic that dictates the maximum sale of medicinal products, whether or not necessary. We're just one step away from introducing a quantitative discount. The more someone buys the drugs, the cheaper they'll be. You can't forget the sale before the deadline. We also have very serious warnings from the profession in this area. The Pharmacy Chamber wants to participate in the adoption of this law. In the Social Democrats Group of Members, we are convinced that the pharmacy chamber should be involved in the preparation of this law. They warn us that it is not a desire to preserve the monopoly. We also have several private pharmacies in Slovenia. So there's also competition. As I have already mentioned, the expertise of one who sells the medicine to us is very important. One of the directives specifies the field of theoretical and practical training in the process of education of the Master of Pharmacy. Among other things, a minimum of five years of study at the university or an appropriate university, of which at least 6 months of practical training at the pharmacy. It is also important that the difference between treatment with prescription medicines and those without a prescription is essential. Both the doctor and the mag are involved in the treatment with the prescription. and it is essential to maintain the presence of a medicinal product expert in self-medication with medicines without prescription. Also, a non-hazardous medicinal product in large quantities and a dangerous combination, such as alcohol, may endanger life. The argument that access to medicines will be better where there is no pharmacy today, is likely to be on broken legs, because if the pharmacists have not shown themselves to be viable by now, specialist shops will be even less. If we do not get a guarantee in the Social Democrats Group today that the sale of medicines without a prescription will be limited and safe and that the procedure for the adoption of this law will also include a profession - we also mean or, above all, a pharmacy chamber, we will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much. From time to time, we have searched for means to fight disease effectively. And the path to medicines, as we know today, has led from unprocessed natural preparations through extracts, various plants, the first simple synthesises, substances to complex compounds obtained by chemical synthesis or biochemical procedures. At the same time as drug development, the pharmaceutical industry developed. The sales volume of the pharmaceutical industry is rising rapidly, although a slight decline in this trend was observed years ago. One of the most demanding industries with huge investments in the search for new knowledge of how to help people’s health has emerged from primitive traveling pharmacies with home-made snacks. The development began when they developed the right synthetic drugs. However, the reasons for the increase in sales must certainly be found in the fact that medicine is based on the dissemination of knowledge of diagnostic, therapeutic and preventive options. And that's why medicines today are gaining the character of industrial products and, as a result, commercial interest. The search for new drugs is hard to imagine without clinical research financed by the pharmaceutical industry or financed by public funds. Thus, different interests, public and commercial, are already exposed to the development phase of the medicinal product. Ethically controversial and professionally questionable would only be the promotion of medicines. So there are many traps in this area. Therefore, the rules of the partners must be clearly defined both in the law and in the regulations under the law. However, consistent consideration of these needs to be given to the continuous professional completion of the participants in this chain. Consistency of ethical behaviour, and in particular the establishment of control mechanisms, we believe in our New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group. All for the benefit of the users. These must not only be the challenges of the law that we have before us, especially the challenges of its implementation. The existing law on medicines and medical devices has been amended several times, as well as in line with European directives, but never truly harmonised. Despite the fact that drug legislation was not in line with European legislation, the undertakings were forced to follow such, although uncoordinated, legislation. The Governing Body has often tried to resolve non-compliance in different ways. This, however, placed the debtors in an uneven position and opened new and new bureaucratic procedures. Strengthening the high level of public health protection and approaching the objective of safe movement of medicines to remove barriers to trade without hindering the development of the pharmaceutical industry are among the objectives of the law. Surely the most sensitive and demanding answer to the question of how appropriate the law provides for an extended possibility of buying medicines without a prescription, i.e. the possibility of buying in specialized shops. According to our assessment, in some statements it has been widely argued that Slovenians want to eat more medicine and chemistry. While there are reasonable concerns that expert advice is important in the self-medication process, since no medicine is such that it cannot be used without risk, but we point out another equally important element, an individual’s self-responsibility. And another thing, even so far, when we bought some painkillers at the pharmacy, we were not often asked why we needed them, whether we were taking other medicines or so on. Some pharmacists have also confirmed that if a party who wants a specific medicine comes, they do not compromise it and do not object to buying another medicine. Chapter 6 of the Act provides for a certain liberalisation in relation to drug trafficking. It is advisable that some medicines may be purchased in a more accessible way if we adopt the law in the proposed form. At the same time, however, we are aware that excessive use of medicines can have harmful consequences not only for the individual but also for society. However, we believe that the envisaged solution set out in the law is still acceptable. They would not support relaxation in a way that would be possible to buy drugs in every case, as mentioned today, that the law provides for it, but not in every event. The law lays down additional technical and staffing conditions, i.e. conditions under the relevant professional staff. The law also draws closer to the regulation in most Member States of the European Union by defining that certain medicines may be issued without a prescription in specialised shops. Hence, even today, one who wants to get to a particular medicine may be able to buy it in an easier way or in a cheaper way in one of the neighbouring countries. Some medicines without a prescription may be cheap. According to some comparisons, this would be more than justified. However, there will still be an open issue of dealing with those prescription drugs that are expensive and increasingly expensive and financed by the budget. New biological medicines to treat individual types of disease. Their price for treating an individual at an annual level can also reach more than 10 million tolls per patient. It would also be good to consider the possibility of setting up a specific fund from which funds could be obtained in addition to those provided by the State. According to the New Slovenia Group, the draft law states that the applicant is aware of the need to be cautious in determining medicines that can be sold outside pharmacies. Finally, this will be determined by a specific act. This will be decided by the pharmacists and doctors. In my opinion, though, the more appropriate rule here is better than more. So, a restrictive approach to establishing a list. According to the New Slovenia - Christian People's Party Group, it is even more important to establish the quality of services and the quality and traceability of medicines. First of all, who is responsible for informing if it is necessary to remove the medicine from the shelf, who keeps the records, where and how many medicines are there? It is necessary to establish such records in due course. It will also be necessary to ensure a sufficient number of persons, controllers who will be able to control whether the medicines are properly fed or not. In the interest of all, a shorter or more precise definition of the time limit for granting or obtaining a marketing authorisation is also useful. Long-term procedures have often led to a situation where a new drug has already been identified in the meantime before it was placed on the market or before it was authorised. Thus, in view of the other news brought by the law, we believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration in the New Slovenia delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to point out, as some colleagues have already done on behalf of the parliamentary groups, that the distribution of drug outlets is a practice that is practiced in a country such as Slovenia, where in my opinion we have a very quality distribution system for medicines and drug sales, where control over the sale of medicines, including those sold without a prescription, is high. And where the pharmaceutical profession is as highly developed as we have, I do not mean here the pharmaceutical profession in the manufacture of medicines, because it would be pointless to be modest if we knew that we were among the leading countries in this area. I am talking about pharmaceuticals in pharmacies and hospitals to allow ourselves to expand the sale of medicinal products to specialised shops where, at least for the time being, unless the Minister prescribes otherwise, in accordance with Article 81 of this proposal of the Act, medicines are also allowed to be sold and only to pharmaceutical technicians. That's one. Second. I'd like to warn you it's unusual. I would not explain what my colleagues have said about the dangers that all bring along such a way of selling medicines that do not need a prescription. I would point out in pharmacovigilance patients, the unusual difference between treatment of medicinal products intended for human medicine and medicines intended for animal medicine. In fact, when determining any adverse effects of a medicinal product on or suspected of human use, the physician or other healthcare professional should inform the legal person, a pharmacovigilance expert. However, only the Marketing Authorisation Holder shall be informed by the veterinarian at the same event. In the light of the experience we have had with some medicines for animal medicine, I believe that in both cases an equal level of action would be needed. Because very often medicines that cause undesirable effects in animals can then be passed on to humans because of such or other food chains. Therefore, I think it would be useful to consider a different provision in Article 82(3). Last but a little warning. I would suggest that this law also be reviewed by a lecturer in Slovenian. This is because the 87th article, where there is talk about advertising medicines, states that verbs should not be repeated, which should be repeated according to the rules of the Slovenian language. And that's what's in this marriage, and there's a lot of other people. I know doctors and lawyers are not the highest level of specialists in Slovenian, but legislation must also have a sense of our mother tongue. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to draw the attention of the applicant to one matter which he is already aware of: that this law in some way removes veterinary laboratories. Indeed, the law provides that laboratories must be included in the European network of official control laboratories. But there is no such network in the veterinary field at this point, and it is likely that it will ever occur in a near future. But right now, there's a problem. If we were to enforce such a law as is before us today, of course, it means that the veterinary control laboratory would somehow cease its work. However, it is necessary to say here and I myself know this and probably also proposers that veterinary medicinal products have some specificities that differ from human medicine. In veterinary medicine it is the end of the line for different categories of animals, then it is necessary to take into account the withdrawal periods, the limits of the residue of medicinal products, including pharmacovigilance, which Mrs Member mentioned a little differently in veterinary use before me than in veterinary medicine. In fact, it would be illogical not to be involved by veterinarians when assessing or working when a drug in its test has to provide all these test conditions. And because of this fact, a proposal by the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine was made by the amendments to Article 6, paragraph 69, and then the same is repeated in Article 91, paragraph 1, suggesting that the content of the law should be followed by the text of this text, that the laboratory should be included in the European network of official control laboratories: "or each year participate in a laboratory check organised by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and the results achieved meet the requirements of the organiser." Thus, this supplement would somehow have been provided for by a veterinary control laboratory officially established by the Ministry of Agriculture in December 2003, but of course there was a long time ago, and it also gave some legal formal basis for its further operation in this law. I am asking you to re-examine this matter as a proposaler and see what can be done in this area and that somehow also with the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, and perhaps even in some other way you are trying to solve this problem. And one more thing about selling drugs without a prescription. Personally, I think it's all the same or we should buy this medicine at the pharmacy or somewhere else outside the pharmacy. I am alone, although our Group's position is somewhat different, but I personally believe that we should follow greater liberalisation in this area. After all, people know more, not less. They also have increasing experience and are increasingly interested in their health. By taking into account the advice, such advice as that given to the medicine. Each medicinal product is accompanied by a declaration. And I think there is actually a need to follow the guidelines that are in the European Union today. Not to repeat, however, that this is best organised with us and that everything must remain as it is. I personally think that this is not the case and that in this area the proposaler is quite right when this right is being extended slightly. And I will, of course, personally support such a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mrs. Potrata, Žnidaršič, Weber, Friend. They're gone. Mrs. Kuclerova. He's quitting. Mrs. Bebler, she's not here. Mr. Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! Just as easy as today, at least on some sides, there is talk of liberalisation, of so-called specialized shops, but it's not. First, I would say that in all those countries of the European Union where they are sold in specialised shops or even in a marketing network, i.e. in markets, there is evidence of an increase in the consumption of such medicines. The second statement I stand for, at least so, has been given public statistics, is that we Slovenians are large consumers, even sometimes over-consumers of medicines in general. I think Mr. Secretary has this information. At least that's what was said. Then why were all the measures and all the restrictions and distributions and so on and the crisis due to the excessive cost of purchasing the medicine? I don't know. Unless they were throwing away. I'll be back. Definition of a specialised drug store. What's that? A specialised retailer for non-prescription medicinal products is a sales facility where, on the basis of the authorisation of the competent authority for medicinal products, the retail trade activity is carried out with those medicinal products which are issued without prescription in pharmacies and outside the pharmacy of specialised retailers. I'm sorry. If that's just a definition for me that's not a definition. What's a specialty drug store? For me, the pharmacy. And what is an expert worker for the sale of medicinal products, regardless of the prescription or without a prescription? Pharmaceut. It's a simple logic. Now I don't see why we would have a specialized store selling medicines specializing in medicinal products with specialized skills other than pharmacies or the exposure of one pharmacy. I also speak an artificial language. I say again because I've seen stores like this, and I've seen the relationship. This isn't about criticism. Here it is just a warning that such things need to be taken a little more seriously and afraid of the consequences. Last but not least, statistics and indicators say that the pharmacy network in Slovenia covers more than 80% of the population, which is less than 6 km away from the pharmacy, and that 24 hours a day, Saturday, Sunday is provided in all pharmacies. In addition, the issue of status - as some are fighting - is a pharmacist, pharmacist and activity compared to a goal that at least some opinions want to be achieved. Pharmacy is a medical activity, medicine is a medical activity. The staff working there are health personnel according to the regulations, the legal ones. And as far as I'm aware, they'll be fighting for the status of all these people. And now the purely economic logic that I fear is that by selling certain medicines without a prescription, just so, a little bit here, a little bit there, in specialized stores, is one goal. This is an economic objective. Of course, medicinal products should not, in principle, be used, except of course, by producers who need to have an extended reproduction. But that's all this is about. Specializing in sales, multi-sold drugs, more money. Now, if this is really a simple and widespread reproduction, whether there's still a good profit. The border here is very fragile. But the greatest danger is that people who buy drugs, or we know that I speak clearly in mind - aspirin helps against headaches and colds or - I don't know - Lekadol. But we don't know, in combination with other drugs, what that means, what it can do. And if there is uncontrolled, uncontrolled traffic in drug sales, there is a great danger, and this is also evidence that 50% of the so-called errors that arise are due precisely to the fact that people do not know what combinations of these medicines they may, regardless of their disease, may not be caused by their feelings, etc. For the purpose of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: These are the dangers we see. Please don't take this note now, okay, bad. It's awesome. Good thing it is. We have time to define this law very precisely and to protect it. There's nothing wrong with that. We have said that we will support this marriage for the sake of settling it. Although in some elements it is also very good, definitely when it defines etc. in these articles and elements, very well prepared. However, these are areas to be pointed out - Mr Minister - and I think we will be very sensitive in the next procedure at least in the Slovenian National Party. And I say it again at the same time. If we look very closely at the explanation of this law, we will see that, in fact, this explanation is somewhat embarrassing, which is written, following European objectives, and one says that in the European Union, to the greatest extent there are countries, etc. that are already selling medicines outside pharmacies etc., then in the second paragraph it states that they are only Germany and Austria and, in part, Ireland, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. But for all the other countries, it says they're very restrictive about that. Finland, France, Belgium, Greece, Italy, Sweden only allow the marketing of medicines for retail use in pharmacies. But before that, it says that almost most countries are allowed to sell drugs so specializedly, etc., and this lists most countries. Only Denmark, Ireland, United Kingdom, the Czech Republic only allow for the sale of certain medicines that do not require a prescription in the commercial network. So it's four. But there are nine of them that only allow pharmacies. So let us be effective in this and consider one or the other options. I don't want to restrict the Slovenes or the Slovenians or interfere with any aspirin. I don't know, Sunday night at 5:00, we don't ring at the pharmacy. But eventually, they're on duty there, and if we ring the bell, they'll give us those drugs, and they'll tell us if it's right to take them or not. I'd only make so much in this part. Once again with the desire for this law to be adopted, of course, but to be complete, transparent, carefully examined and for the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you. Juban, he's not here. Mr. Gulic, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u136	Your Honor, Mr. President! Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues" The law before us, of course, brings a number of good solutions. But I would have stopped at the same time when I was available. I think that's actually the most problematic thing. In fact, increased accessibility can, of course, cause and also cause serious problems where it is found. We know, of course, that in some countries the consequences of such accessibility are as much as the benefits of selling medicines. But there may be more if things were to be thoroughly reviewed. Access to medicines must not be totally unlimited to these medicines, which are, of course, considered to be easier or less dangerous. In fact, control over all that will be done with these medicines will be even smaller than control over what is being done with medicines. We know that even those who are prescribed for prescriptions obtained in pharmacies do not always end up with what they are supposed to use. We also know that it is sometimes prescribed more out of a psyche than out of somatic causes. We can't close our eyes on this. If, of course, these matters were then accessible anywhere and at any time, the plasma would, of course, be even more widespread and might be even more dangerous. Nor is it to be expected that people will have a special education. While the European Directive requires qualified persons to provide such advice. At the same time, the European Directive does not talk about where to sell it. That's our thing. I think that at least in this work it would be good to change the law, to correct it, although it is also very clear that some pressures, the profits created by pharmacies, have probably been choked on. That's for sure. And there's about 50% of traffic and profits from that part of their sales that's not on the recipe. Perhaps, if we are aware, it is also known to all those who would like to reach this share of the market. Even though I am of the opinion that freedom is as unlimited as possible, it is in these matters that I am concerned about. Access to such substances can, of course, bring serious problems, not only to those who would consume them, but also to their surroundings. Accessibility is already problematic in some home remedies, in the case of a brandy. This is where we've restricted accessibility, even though I hear we're supposed to relieve ourselves. But even there - I have to say - the waitresses in the morning know very precisely who gets there and really needs it and who they refuse it to. I hope that the endless desire for profit will not weigh normal intelligence. You're doctors here, and you know what it's like. And in this Pandora's box we're opening now, it's not just a "poof" but it's also some kind of hurricane. Therefore, I think that further consideration of this part of the law must be made at least more stringent and clearly limited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In my discussion, I will touch on some of the problematic proposals of the law, which seem to say that they are some kind of coordination with the EU, but I would like to point out that we have made some efforts in recent years also to be the minister appointed by the Minister of Health in front of us. And the basic question I have is: Will the solutions proposed by the Minister of Health in this law improve the health of Slovenians and Slovenes? Will the proposals in this law actually happen to what is a key problem, and this is that it is not fully known what will happen to the care of the population, to medicines without a prescription? However, I would expect from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that when in some way with the system we have taken into some Anglo-Saxon solution, one wonders whether these solutions are not in some countries. Here, of course, is the most famous North America. With all her negative consequences, she acted against what could be taken care of by the Minister of Health. So that I think that the basic issue is, of course, not clearly defined in the law - although the law says that we are summarizing a European directive. However, we all know that the European Directive regulates the supply of medicines or medicines with no prescription, medicines with no prescription, leaves individual countries with a view to changing a system in some way. I have lived in different systems, in systems where these things are found in "other sources" - or if you want - in large hypermarkets that have some "otherstores" section, whether this is for prescription medicines or medicines without a prescription. I've lived in systems where it doesn't exist. And I must say that one of the basic issues that is not cleared by this law is why changing the system, what is wrong with the existing pharmacy system, or pharmacy that acts as public institutions, or those that are concessionaries and perform the function of pharmacies. So my feeling is that with the Minister of Health, who came up with this proposal today, that his concept of caring for the health of Slovenians and Slovenes is different, or that he is at least subordinate to the interest that is essential in the business of dealing with medicines without a prescription. I believe that later on business with prescription drugs will follow. However, I would suggest to the Minister of Health that it be asked whether all the effects that would result, or which would result if you adopted a law in this form, would, however, outweigh some of the expectations of the effects that this law would have on either the reduction in the price of medicines or the increased supply. I think that the key issue in providing medicines in Slovenia is the safety of patients in accessing medicines and, of course, as a result, in the use of medicines. Of course, it is not clear whether this or this orientation will provide the law sufficiently. The advantage is given to some so-called economic, positive economic effects of increased competition, despite the fact that from the experience of some other countries it is known that increased competition in the field of sales of medicines without or to the prescription leads to an increased risk for citizens and citizens. If you watched one of the movies on Croatian TV on Saturday night, you'll remember what that means in a system that is North America. So I would suggest that you think about why in countries, in countries where accessibility or solidarity is actually a model of health insurance - we call it the Bismarck System - why are they in these countries, and that is Germany, the sale of medicines in a broad commercial network was rejected by a referendum in 1998? Why did they say no? Because they estimated that it was suddenly possible to open this box of some competition in an area where it is extremely difficult not to expect big - I will say - interruptions in the drug market will find that the negative effects will be more. However, I would expect from the Minister of Health who is concerned about maintaining the solidarity model of health insurance. I would expect this minister to be precisely because for the solidarity model of health insurance it was the one that was most opposed to the single tax rate because the single tax rate would amount to about 30 billion additional health insurance costs in Slovenia if the low VAT rate rose by over 100%. Which means that this would encourage health care and especially medicines. So I would expect the Minister of Health not to propose such a solution in order to propose a solution that is consistent with the solidarity model of health insurance. A solution that means that within the Republic of Slovenia we have a system of supply of prescription medicines, medicines without a prescription, and is trying to eliminate the inefficiency that may exist in this system. I think that these inefficiencies are more in the very execution of healthcare services than in the supply of medicines. A few weeks ago, on the Committee on Budgetary Control, we listened to the Director-General of the RS Health Insurance Institute, who explained what could be done without any changes to the law, without any other intermediary appearing, save only on medicines if, in cooperation with public or health service providers, in fact, certain criteria, a few conditions. He explained to us on this committee how they managed to save between 4 billion and 5 billion in 2004, without the availability being reduced or without the quality of treatment being reduced only in different negotiations. We call them drug dealers. However, when you bring into this Slovenian system we will say - "as long as the arms of large pharmaceutical families" so that they will also affect the content of the retail sales network, then - I think - something such a health insurance agency will be extremely difficult to do. So that my opinion on this proposal is a solution that is incomplete in order to take the analysis or study into account of current supplies very closely, because otherwise I do not know why for several decades in Slovenia with a national database on the sale of prescription products and medicines without prescription could ensure that the supply of medicines in Slovenia is adequate. By suggesting to the Minister of Health that the question is, above all, that the Minister of Health is, of course, to propose solutions to ensure that people are the most healthy by means. Now, however, funds will be spent primarily to get someone else on this one, calling it the competition for selling prescription and without a prescription, and making a lot of money. Who's gonna pay for this? They'll pay for citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, this payment will not increase their health. And that is why I will oppose this law myself until the solutions in this law are more consistent with the solidarity system of health care, which is legal in Slovenia. But with proposals in the drug law, we're changing it in some way. That's what we're changing systemically. This is bad, and I therefore regret that the Minister of Health, but not the Minister of Health of Suppliers, has proposed such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you. Mrs. Squire is not here. May, Friday, Posedel. They're gone. Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman! The Messengers and the Messengers! Of course, I also agree with the basic spirit of this law that this area needs to be regulated. But in Slovenia, from my own practice and experience, I know that medicine has already been so advanced that in fact it is no longer a healthy person. The claim sounds paradoxical, but rarely any of us meets all the strict norms that medical science sets out for us. Therefore, there is a great need for health as a value and also for self - health. We used to say a little bit about a joke a little bit to really make football, politics, and health each of us understand best. And it is this understanding of my health that I can also see the problem and the potential danger that I would like to draw attention to the drafters of this law. Although I say that the basic trend, this is the regulation of this area, I do not oppose, but as a liberal in these areas, I do not fully support full liberalisation, which can go against the consumer, patient and people. I have the instructions for Lekadol tablets in front of me, which says: "Be careful to take Lekadol, weakened patients and alcoholics before use." I doubt that any of the alcoholics in this specialised infirmary will be able to tell you how much this medicine should take and that before it is taken in certain situations, it will also read and understand this leaflet in detail. Then, let's say the next interesting thought is "The cure for pain without medical advice don't take more than 10 days, because it can mask the symptoms of infection." Do not take it without your doctor’s advice for more than 3 days, and so on. I am also not sure that each patient will check his or her body temperature or anything like that before taking this medicine. And also a warning, Lecadol can affect the results of some laboratory tests. What if someone did some tests in the lab and had previously forgotten to warn the lab doctor or doctor that he was under the influence of certain medicines? Finally, it also says: "In case of pregnancy and breast-feeding, Lekadol during pregnancy and breast-feeding, then consult your doctor about the use." I see here, above all, the great danger of commercialisation. We Slovenians are prone to accumulation and procurement. This also confirms the latest case of avian flu when we were all in the chilling search for this so-sung Tamiflu, but if it really had to be used, it would not have produced such miraculous results. I am sure that most doses of this medicine will end at the landfill after the expiry date. I hope it's in the waste dumps, not in our garbage cans. These are my dilemmas and fears, in which I point out that these special stores need to be cautious. It was also necessary to regulate the matter properly by means of sub-legislative acts and to ensure that there was no inconvenience and, above all, no abuse. Then, of course, the matter can be significantly better than it will be if we do not. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you very much! All are warmly welcomed together, and thank you to Vice-President Klavor and President Tsukati for having held the meeting so far. I also warmly welcome the representative of the government. We continue the debate. It's Dr. Slavinec's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much! Even on my part a nice greeting, especially for the first announcement of vice presidents. On the one hand, the law we are discussing provides greater access to medicines, which is safe to say. However, the thing that I am concerned about and which some doctors have already warned about, especially from the types of doctors, is that it does not define the professional education of those who will sell drugs at such a level and to the extent that it is expected on the one hand and is also good for users. If we remember advertising about medicines, we can always hear very quickly what is required in such advertisements to indicate that time after unnecessary advertising does not prolong the need to consult a doctor or pharmacist about the use and possible side effects of a particular medicine. Because of this, it is very dangerous if you do not change your mind, but what medicines can all be sold by someone who is not qualified. Because not only is it more difficult because of its specificity, it takes longer than many others and certainly they learn important things during the course of the study, because selling medicines is not the same as selling candy, because there are plenty of medicines used to treat throats and inflammations. And that's why this kind of liberalisation - and that's even more strange, because the proposals don't come from liberal parties, which somehow comes from a name that we're taking for it - very much reminds us of the hospitality law. We also said there that there is no need to work in guest houses at all, not one who has an appropriate education, i.e. guest education. And even today, we have heard that the country sometimes has to prescribe what people should do or should not do. On the other hand, we now see here that we can walk across, and who can sell health if I convey it in this way we understand it. As a result, I am sincerely concerned that it may not be more appropriate to approach and ensure that people are able to obtain health, in the front of the lobby, the interest of pharmaceuticals, which, at the end of the day - as we have heard earlier - can also lead to the fact that medicines will be bought substantially too much, even if they are not used needlessly after that. However, it is still an open issue of storage or recycling after the expiry of the deadline. That's why I'm reminding you of these things that I've highlighted. And I certainly stand by the view that medicines should be sold by those who are qualified to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I didn't get it right, Mr. Juban, do you want a replica or something? [[...]] Unfortunately, that's not going to work because there's a possible replacement. But you can't just jump in. So we have to continue on the list. Again, I've probably been asking hundreds of people that you don't want to discuss in time to check out, because there are quite a few people here who aren't there. It's Mrs. Zalokar Orazem's turn. He's quitting. Then Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! So today we are considering the drug law, which, of course, brings, as has been said many times today, compliance with the European legal order, which has somehow been enforced in the last year. At the same time, of course, we are also introducing in the text of the law only provisions which are within the competence of individual Member States, i.e. those which are within our competence. Here I would like to point out that, in the field of work of the Ministry of Health, given that the national healthcare programme has been in force since the end of 2004, we do not yet have this document, not in this document, but in this document, which would naturally reflect policies in this area. That is why it is happening for us to act in specific areas, without knowing how we will regulate the whole system. As an example, I am simply referring to the introduction of privacy, which we do not really know how to introduce. We don't know if just at the primary secondary level, in what way, different in the primary sphere, in what way to secondary health care. We don't know to what extent, we don't know what the positives are. We don't know what the consequences will be. Of course, the lack of such a document will show its negative side in a number of other areas. In my opinion, today we are meeting one of those people who are talking about the drug law. So in that area that is within the jurisdiction of the individual country. If I mention that many words are already meant to do so today, in particular how we will ensure accessibility, accessibility to medicines for which we will not need a prescription. Of course, in doing so, I would like to point out that, as a kind of user of health services, trust in the health system is extremely important, i.e. confidence in the fullness of all segments, and, of course, I want to have confidence in the system on the basic principle that it is done maximumly to ensure the health care of each individual of us. Therefore, a dilemma is also raised regarding the transfer of medicines without prescription from pharmacies to specialized shops. Here we have two arguments followed by the applicant as a justification. The first argument is accessibility, i.e. increased accessibility to these medicines. The second argument followed by the applicant is a price decrease for these medicines. Of course, I would like to receive accurate information or studies on the basis of which documents the applicant may have made such assessments. For if we are talking about accessibility and the measure should increase this accessibility, I am certainly interested in what way, given that we are speaking again on the same day in another area where we are actually putting an end to liberalisation. So we're talking about the trade law, where we prescribe a reduction in operating time, closing down stores, and at the same time we're hoping that in specialized stores, which can somehow also be an integral part of these shopping centers, we'll get - say - this medicine without a prescription. Of course, here I am asked the question: Will this accessibility actually be increased or are there assessments that do not follow the reality? For if we imagine that we will be able to open specialised shops anywhere, in any way it is necessary to ask ourselves whether we are not telling the Slovenians the following message: Come on, we want people in Slovenia, i.e. residents and residents, to eat more medicines. I think that such a message would be extremely bad, as there are many studies that in such specialised shops the primary goal of profit will be, and less unfortunately, the provision of health care. As part of this accessibility, I would like to draw attention to a series of studies that talk about two substances, so-called paracetamol, which we can meet in Lekadol and acetyl salicylic acid, which we can meet in Aspirin. Here I would point out that studies say that in paracetamol several European countries are the most common cause of poisoning. Overdose or in combination with alcohol destroys the liver. Aspirin and some other painkillers cause bleeding. I cannot agree with those who say that, of course, counseling in such specialised shops will not be necessary. Can we imagine that the individual’s sense of responsibility when he is able to collect these medicines between medicinal beverages, tea, as he will always have to tie his decision to the application of the declarations that are written inside each carton of this medicine? Even though it has been said today, will we accept the fact that pharmacies in pharmacies do not provide their advisory services? Even if this is the case, we could pay quite a lot of attention to this area before we take such a drastic action. Of course, I would not disagree that this counseling is not necessary. Because he's a magician. pharmacology counselling may allow and is competent. While counselling in specialised shops cannot be expected as competent as it is prescribed as a necessary professional education only a pharmaceutical technique. However, I think that all of us, as far as we know education in these areas, know the difference in knowledge of pharmaceuticals or mags. They have pharmaceuticals. When we talk about the consequences of such a decision, we will not be able to talk about it tomorrow, because these negative consequences will only be revealed in years. That is why it is so much more important before we decide on this content that we have all the data on the table. I have no reason not to believe that the applicant had a positive intention with this measure. Of course, I would like him to respond specifically to all the concerns raised here today. And while responding to these concerns, it is aware that it assumes full responsibility for the content already estimated in certain European countries and in the United States as a result of the free access to medicines without a prescription, the costs of the remedial measures already being incurred in certain European countries and in the United States are reaching the values that are intended to buy these medicines. Of course, I am interested here in whether the applicant actually assesses that such savings will be made on the basis of a reduction in the price of medicines without a prescription. The price of medicinal products is estimated to fall by 30%. Here I am asked the question of consistency, because on the one hand we say that these measures, which raise questions about the protection of public health, would lower prices and, on the other hand, by introducing a uniform tax rate, would actually raise the price of these medicines. The question is: What is the direction of the Ministry of Health, which on the one hand supports the introduction of a single tax rate that will raise the price of this medicine while at the same time reducing these prices with measures that have a very significant impact on human health? Despite the fact that it has already been said here that an international comparison is also mentioned in the very explanation of the law, I would point out that in the text we can follow that only some countries have such a way, while many EU countries maintain the sale of these medicines within pharmacies. Therefore, in the procedure for the adoption of this law, I expect clear answers from the applicant to these dilemmas, clear answers to the confidence of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who will want to have a clear message when buying medicines without prescription in specialised shops, only those medicines that have positive effects on the health of these people will be available. So that we do not face situations where they will buy drugs because of one effect, while this medicine can also have this medicine in combination with other medicines and if as the easiest to mention alcohol can have very negative effects, which may also have very negative or even tragic consequences. That is why I expect from the proposer all these questions, to all these clear answers, so that I can make a better decision in my actions to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much! And finally a word to the government representatives if you want a comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u146	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for the initiatives and the debate on the proposed law. Somehow, which I could follow in the debate, a large part of the support was also summarised. Last but not least, you have not overlooked certain novelties introduced by law, and finally, the treatment groups and adaptations to European legislation are added to comparable medicines. More or less the red thread of the debate, as far as I could follow, is the release of drug sales outside pharmacies. You expect clear, solid arguments that would not happen bad for the health of citizens. Somehow you are exposing increased availability and lowering the prices of medicines, which I believe is also well exposed in the law. Somehow I will try to write with some numbers and also with some information to calm you down, to care for and to care for the health of citizens. In fact, of all the drugs that we have on sale, that's about 3,000 drugs, it's kind of 10% without a prescription. This covers approximately 7% of the total market. Of these, only 10% may be on the sales list in specialized stores. So maybe 30 medicines could come into the market, and it will be decided, proposed by a special expert commission composed of pharmacologists, pharmacists, doctors and others, and through the drug agency, to propose a proposal that the Minister will later confirm. In short, the whole procedure speaks of the concern for the health of citizens at the forefront of the proposal of the Ministry of Health in this law. However, the argument that the accessibility of citizens to the services they provide in pharmacies will increase that there are several arguments. It is well known that we could also underpin facts compared to some countries that today in our pharmacies they are significantly more burdened by the issuance of medicines than in some other countries, such as Germany and Austria, and in this way they could also devote themselves to the work that may not be sufficiently done today due to the burden of issuing prescriptions. It cannot be overlooked, however, that any national would be accepted and, under some optimal or minimum or maximum standards, they would not be able to meet the requirements for additional personnel in a very short time. In short, somehow from the debate we have summarised a large part of the support itself in the proposal. I tried very quickly in the time it was given, to put at least a few arguments that guidance in the health of citizens is safe, because the process of taking it is safe and these medicines will be in specialised stores where they will be educated, so pharmaceutical techniques can issue these medicines. There are several countries following this procedure, and we are not alone. Finally, we are in the European Union and citizens will be able to reach out for some of these medicines in neighbouring countries, which we are also bordering or elsewhere. I think I have answered at least these main questions and I expect the support of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you very much! Time is just about one hour and 35 minutes and 47 seconds. So I ask for established practice and practice, of course the seconds are already counting down: Who else would like to discuss? Let me just say that we're going to divide the time so that everyone can discuss it for a maximum of five minutes. For once, we have two offers, Mr Juban and Mr Brenčič. Anyone else? Thank you very much. Then every five minutes. I invite Mr. Juban to begin.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Chairman. When I listen to this debate and, above all, as representations of the law forward in its solutions, I am accompanied by some events in the past that have pointed out that it is not a well-thought matter to overly liberalise. We used to have a debate in this house about the plant protection law. It is true that there were even more aggressive substances that might have been toxic, inseparable, etc. when we tried to bring into practice so that these chemicals could be sold by anyone, including a forklift driver in a warehouse. Since some barren compromise had been concluded and the Ministry had partly liberalized the matter through a sub-law at that time, it was later shown that a great deal of inconvenience had been caused by errors, the wrong way of selling, the wrong way of advising, the poisoning, the remains in the groundwater, the ignition of nature. What do I know? Kidric's been a case lately. Overexpenditure, etc., because the matter went too far into the wide sale, the sale, and there were later problems and things are being handled in the opposite direction. At the same time, I'm surprised by the salt mortals that are happening in this area. Years ago, we adopted the law again in this house, not with this title, but with a similar content, when we had a fellow Member, when she always said, I as a doctor have such an attitude, and such as this, and then a member of the Social Democratic Party, probably a very good colleague from Minister Bručan, tried to introduce a solution in the sale of medicines so that patients, diabetics who have to eat diabetic bread, would sell these bread corns, ids exclusively in pharmacies and someone who has - in particular we talked about celiacia should walk from the hills 15 kilometers away on corn bread because it would be a marriage solution exactly like that. Fortunately, not that I'd be smart enough to know what that means, but they warned us that we then presented the matter and that we had recently prevented corn bread from being sold in pharmacies until today. Today, however, the story goes upside down so as not to accidentally lead to this, perhaps even the same people, to sell drugs in some specialized department of food trade. I am surprised by these solutions, which go from one extreme to another and that even with the same people, experts come up with these kinds of solutions and then you always have a taste in the back, the impression that they are some politically-friendly solutions that do not produce good results in the short or long term. And it is likely that the proposaler should think on the basis of a debate from different parliamentary groups, whether it is a solution, probably not only from Members, including from the professional circles, whether it is a good solution or whether it would show what to learn from the results of the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u149	Replica, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u150	I believe Mr. Juban didn't do it on purpose. But when he mentioned that it was a Member of the Social Democrats, he was referring to Janša's Social Party at the time, not to the Social Democrats of President Borut Pahor. I think it's true.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Exceptionally, I'm going to allow a replica of the replica because it's basically an additional explanation. Mr. Juban. If I understand correctly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u152	I'm sorry. Thank you very much. I think I was clear enough when I said it was then that I was a member of the then Social Democratic Party, and in the meantime I also said that I was probably a colleague of Dr. Bručan's. Thank you so much for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u153	Good. We've cleared that up. Thank you very much, both of you. And Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I know that Slovenian pharmacy is at a high quality level and that it is also an extremely good organisation of the House of Commons. However, I also know from my own practice and even during the period of work in this committee, which covered the field of health, that Slovenian medicine is also highly monopolized. And I welcome the bill's proposer to decide on this issue to slightly overturn the situation as it is. That's right. I therefore welcome specialised sales outlets, but of course with a very careful approach through this expert committee, which will determine the choice of medicines or articles, products which this specialised retailer may sell. It's not gonna be any different than it is now. We also now have departments in pharmacies where only pharmaceuticals are administered. And so far, in my long-standing need for such products, I have not received a single oral instruction on how and what. But I do know that one of the Oranozols I use as hair shampoo in a pharmacy is so expensive when I get the price at which the manufacturer markets this product, I just start to freak out. And the right thing to do in this context is to put this area on the silt. And the people will no longer spend anything and throw away the cures. Only those medicines that he can buy in a specialised pharmacy will he buy cheaper, with no less professional instructions, with the same instructions. Perhaps even with a little less advertising, if nothing else on national media such as television. So I don't see anything wrong with that, in my opinion, positive action. It is important that the approach of the Authority responsible for medicinal products should be the one we expect to take on this issue. And now we're at the organ. I am disappointed in myself that the ministry or government has decided that this body has still been preserved as a body within the Ministry. I am sure that even in a public agency that would be a public law person it would be much easier to find the appropriateness of the professional products that are already offered by the control laboratory in the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine for a veterinary medicine. It's much easier in a public agency than in an agency than in a department. That is why I think that, of course, because I also expect the carrier of this proposal to further justify, in the second reading, why it does not arise in the transformation of this drug law, the public agency for medicines and medical devices, which would also be, in its own capacity, European comparable. These two segments I wanted to point out. I am sure that we really need not be afraid to make in this area medicines that are not on the prescription, which are extracts from natural herbs and so on, diabetic products to make more excess in favour of us consumers, consumers. Here pharmacies generate so much profits that they do not have to be overly defended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. A replica to the debate? It's gone. We've shared it a long time ago. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. Now we can confidently say that this will certainly not be 10:30, but it will be essential earlier. This concludes this agenda item. And I continue with the agenda at 16. Period of the day -- that's the first defensively proposed law on amendments to the law on local self-government. We have 3 hours and 35 minutes for a joint debate. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Ambassador Cveto Zalokar Orazem. At the same time, I thank the government's representatives so far for their cooperation, and between us, I welcome Minister Zhagar with my co-worker. With regard to this law, a group of eleven Members - as it were - requested by Mrs Zalokar Orazem to hold a general debate with the first-signed Mrs Zalokar Orazem. I therefore give the floor to the representative of Ms Zalokar Orazem's proposal for further explanation of the bill. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished Minister and representative of the government! In the recent period, many congregations have taken the initiative to establish a city congregation. However, the fact is that their establishment is not possible at this time, as the most recent amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government have deleted a provision that speaks of procedures for their establishment. Also, there are still unrealistic provisions in the law on the conditions for setting up which no candidate fulfils, and of course not many of the already existing municipal municipalities. The status of the city municipality under the existing law can be obtained if it has at least 20,000 inhabitants and 15,000 jobs, of which at least half of the tertiary and quarterly activities and is the geographical, economic and cultural centre of its gravitational area. The status of the municipal congregation is granted after the previous referendum, which we delete by amending the law, by the State Assembly. In Slovenia we have 193 municipalities, of which 11 municipalities were established in 1994 and later there are no municipalities. This year, the National Assembly, on the initiative of the ruling coalition, by amending the law, significantly eased the conditions for the establishment of new municipalities, since, exceptionally, what we have seen days ago, this has become a rule, it is possible to establish municipalities with at least 2,000 people who will be able to establish them indefinitely. In the LDS we have pointed out a number of negative consequences, further territorial division of Slovenia, which can thus take place in a timeless period, and thus fragmentation of existing, especially major and urban Slovenian municipalities. The latter introduces instability into the local self-government system and prevents the effective execution of local self-government tasks. Among the proposals for new congregations are some that will significantly weaken the existing municipalities of Novo Mesto, Koper and Nova Gorica. Many will also bring important financial resources to the existing municipality due to very speculative financial purposes. The National Assembly, by means of the amendment of the Law, also deleted the provisions setting out the conditions to be met by the City Hall, and deleted the provisions on the tasks to be performed by those congregations. At the time of the change of law, we addressed to the government of the congregation, which is competing or seeking to gain the status of the municipal congregation, an initiative to ease the conditions for the establishment of the municipalities, but unfortunately we never received the right and reasoned answer. The latter shows the inappropriate attitude of the ruling coalition and the government towards the municipalities and larger settlements, which are competing for the status of the city and the municipalities and for the continuation of the anti-urban policy. In the previous three procedures for the establishment of municipalities in recent years, Members and municipalities have proposed the establishment of multi-urban communities, but unfortunately they have never been successful. The proposals were rejected because they did not comply with the Constitution and the law of certain conditions, which we now want to amend with the existing amendment tabled by Members of several political parties. We do not agree with the answer that the government will consider changing the conditions for the establishment of municipal municipalities only after the concept of the introduction of a second level of local self-government is known. The new municipalities have no direct connection with future regional centres. More or less, they know who they are. It is also true that many could become second-degree centres within future regions, as they do and do many central activities. In view of everything, I hope that the proposal for amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, which would set up a procedure for the establishment of municipal municipalities, will ease the criteria for the appointment of municipal municipalities and, in our opinion, delete the unnecessary provision for the holding of a referendum before the establishment of municipal municipalities, and that respected colleagues and colleagues support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you very much! I would like to take the floor to invite Minister Zhagar to explain his opinion in an introductory manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The content of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Local Self-Government submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Group of Members are the amendments to Article 16, paragraph 3 and 4, on local self-government. In its opinion, the government focuses on three main points. Changing the conditions for the status of the municipality is closely linked to the establishment of the provinces and the definition of the provinces. When the issue of the provinces is resolved, it will be possible to determine which city the local authorities should have in place or what tasks they should perform. Undoubtedly, it is the right of the legislator to lay down the conditions for the status of the city municipality. Therefore, it would be possible to re-evaluate the eligibility of the conditions for the municipality at the same time as considering the establishment of the provinces, but not separately. Especially if we know that a debate is already under way in this National Assembly on a possible change of constitution regarding the establishment of landscapes. In the second part, we find disagreements with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 141 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the city and not the municipality may, under the procedure and conditions laid down by law, acquire the status of the municipality. The proposers, however, propose in Article 1 of the Law a text whereby the municipality can obtain this status. The government considers that the law in this article is inconsistent with the Constitution. Finally, the proposal is not budgetaryly neutral. The status of the city municipality brings benefits to the funding community under the financing law, as noted by the proposer or group of Members. However, these financial commitments do not currently cover state budgets for 2006 and 2007. Finally, a new law on the financing of municipalities is being prepared, which, according to our plans, is to be adopted in this National Assembly in the following year and will enter into force in 2007. This law would certainly solve some of the dilemmas with regard to the financing of the congregations, since only these differ greatly from one another. For these reasons, the Government considers that the proposal does not meet the conditions for admission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Barovic is next on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, representatives of the government! When, the question, will it be the right time to regulate the laws on local self-government related to the establishment of urban municipalities? Why are the conditions for amending the Law on Local Self - Administration and the Establishment of Municipal Congregations not given? The conditions for the formation of new congregations are, however, as far as possible, given. But that's a positive question? Does that mean that if the congregations have already been formed, why not the city? The proof that the time for change has been, firstly signed, that the amendment of the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities has already deleted the provision of Article 16a of the Law, which is one of these. Now, some very specific information that we will not be able to think of. The law was very clear, the status of the municipality can be obtained if it has at least 20,000 inhabitants and at least 15,000 jobs. This law was in force. And we have 11 city halls. Of these 11 city municipalities - colleagues and colleagues - meet the legal conditions of two municipalities - Ljubljana and Maribor. The target doesn't meet because it has 13,000 employees, not 15,000. Koper has 8,700 employees, not 15. Kranj has 13,000 employees, not 15. Murska Sobota does not have enough residents, not enough employees, much less. Nova Gorica has no population, no number of employees, much less. The new city has no population by law, no employees, much less. The bird does nothing at all, as it has been said so far. Slovenia Gradec also does not, does not have enough population, not enough jobs. Velenje fulfils by number of inhabitants and has 10,900 jobs. So the law applies to Maribor and Ljubljana. The rest are not valid, but the city’s congregations are. And it is now blasphemous if some municipalities continue to be very specific: Radovljica, Domžale, Jesenice, Kamnik, Krško, Lithia, Piran and Trbovlje, who also have status, it is very important, cities, cities. They also do not meet the conditions of the previous law 20 thousand, 15 thousand, but they must not be. But those who don't, they can because they've already been. But don't say that we're like little kids now, why don't I, why don't you, even though we've seen it in this session - a few other things? Mr Minister, you mentioned Article 141 and said that the bill was inconsistent with the Constitution. You know, even the constitution can read very well. The 141st Article of the Constitution states that the city can obtain the status of the city by procedure and under the conditions laid down by law. And if we change this law, this article will hold. It will be because, on the basis of Article 141 of the Constitution and on the basis of the legal provisions laid down in this proposal, the Constitution will be in line with the law and there will be no problems. That's what I hope to say. We can also ask for a competent legislative and legal service. The expression or claim of a strong city congregation would probably not be favored by the provinces. They wouldn't be in favor of the provinces. Now, what is this claim based on, not a claim, this doubt I would like to hear, I hope I will? Why not, though, what does it have to do if it costs - I don't know - if we're going to have 20 urban municipalities, and now we're not going to have regional arrangements at NUTS level 3? However, I would ask why it is not there yet, but why at NUTS 2 rather than at NUTS 3 because it is logical, at least in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, that we should first arrange the landscape or regionalisation and then at the European level? Well, of course, the government will explain this to me. The government further argues that changing the conditions for the status of the municipality is necessarily linked to the establishment of the provinces and the creation of general administrative districts. When this problem of the provinces is resolved, which is functionally linked to the problem of the municipalities and the provinces will be established, it will be possible to assess the location of the local self-government of the municipality. Only then will we be able to determine the city of the city. Now they have one, but I don't know what it is or what it is. Interesting. However, the State Council does not condition the formation of city halls and law, etc. by adopting regionalisation, but subjecting it to a change in the law on the financing of municipalities. Now I am waiting for the next committee to come up with the idea that it is only possible to form city halls when I do not know what the company law will be. However, another committee will come up with the possibility that only when the law is passed do I not know about the creation of a double budget in euros and tolars, etc. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, it's not fair, it's not fair that there are two criteria for a different congregation. If we go to look at a proposal that is very clear, which says 15,000 people, and I think it's the right proposal now, 5,000 jobs. Yeah, that's perfect. But this is just like that, because if I count the average number of employees in the existing municipalities, I come to an average of about 9,000, 8 000, and another thing is 9, if I take the average. This is an ideal number, tertiary and quarterly activity. What, in fact, do we still have in the congregations? Trade, banking, health care, education, science, culture and state administration, because we have no other. I mean, really look, what else do we have? All the industry we had, I'd be proud to have you tell me where the hell there is. We don't have 90% tertiary activity. The conditions for this are ideal and do not mix you properly please establish municipalities with regionalisation conditions, subject to the adoption of a law on the financing of municipalities, etc. [[..]] And we know that many of them have fewer, and there are many that have never been matched before. But well, now it's shaped what's formed. I don't know why it wouldn't be designed in the area of urban development. If we were to ask again, why do we want the city’s congregations? Yes, because they fulfill all that is written down, because the municipalities have both the cultural nucleus and their cultural home and are in fact some middle of the event and the health house and the hospital and, and, and have, and, if they have, why not the city congregation? The financial implications are also clear. Why lie? The financial implications are clear that in the 2006 budget the funds are provided, the index is 108 and the funds are increasing by 4 billion tolars. Honestly, that's the way it is, and that's how it's gonna be. And I don't think it's fair to plead for regionalisation now, for the law on the financing of municipalities, I don't know what else and for the lack of agreement with the constitution and the injustice of having to regionalise this country first, but I don't know what else. Or, if that's the case, let's make one order for everyone, for everyone. It means, if we first aim for regionalisation, well, we have done two regions within Europe at NUTS2, okay. Let's do now, I don't know, 8 provinces on the NUTS3 level inside Slovenia, okay. When we put it in place, let us make a law on the financing of the congregations. Right and from there, let us build new congregations, set up new congregations, and set up city congregations, but let this be the same for all. Not that it is not necessary to establish one, neither A, nor B, but to establish others it is necessary to do A, B and C before. I don't know if that's the case, okay? It seems to me that such an approach is chaotic and it is not a personal desire, no fiction, these are the facts of 15,000 employees, this was not in the golden days of the former country, Yugoslavia. That's when it was. The congregations were rich, and the municipalities of Trbovlje were very rich, with 20 thousand, the sixth in Yugoslavia after development. Times went by, recession did its part, change in the economic system did its part, and indicators from 2005 on employment in the existing municipalities are clear. We're not supposed to be making a fool out of this. We must be happy if we have 7.8 000 employees in all activities, because, unfortunately, most today are really just tertiary and quarterly. So, dear colleagues, let us try to be equal to all, to look objectively at the demands, requests and conditions and to be honest about it. That's all there is to it. And now is the time for this law to be adopted, now is the time for this law to be changed, not in the next four years, not in the next five years, six years, because then there will be other necessity. It is now necessary because there have already been some changes and because there can be real changes in this area. And we will not harm anyone, no one will harm anyone, even if someone falls out of this list of desires for the city’s congregation, even though at least part of all the conditions are met. If we are indeed going to watch the letter of the law, then I expect that in the country of the Republic of Slovenia we will have two municipalities, Maribor and Ljubljana, and all the rest will be cities, just as we are a city like the Domžalje City, but they will not be a city municipality because they do not comply with the laws of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The following will present the position of DeSUS, Mr Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you very much. By the way, I was told what I had to say. I'll do my best. Recently, and especially in recent days, a lot of attention has been paid to local self-government. I think it's the same. Because that's where that direct life for most people happens. It would be good to have him arranged so that it would really suit most of us. However, we have also observed in these days that positions are very different. Especially between us, here in Parliament, and that the positions are usually colored with locality or with the benefits that a person could possibly gain from the adoption of a separate law. We are not exactly in the DeSUS Group in the position that we should now look for these benefits, but rather at the point of view that, in fact, some feel it is unfair to regulate the system criteria for the local self-government to be regulated, not by individual pieces, but by knowing what we want in Slovenia at the level of local self-government, both at the primary and secondary levels. Unfortunately, the issue of financing is also linked here, as this law, which we are talking about now, has financial implications. Probably for those who would become new city halls also an appropriate positive effect. I am sure that when I think a little about these congregations, which are proposed to make sure that some deserve such a status when compared with the congregations or with the municipalities of the past. However, we must ask ourselves whether we will continue to seek alibis in past mistakes. What has been wrong in the past probably does not prove to be repeated indefinitely, and this kind of alibi is not a valid argument for us. When we go to creating a new one, we should probably have clear criteria, we should know exactly what we want to do so that we do not cause new injustices and new nonsense and new irregularities. The basic conditions, the principle criteria and the criteria are therefore lacking. Only this number of people who should be included in a municipality or the number of jobs can certainly not be the main criteria, so we think. More importantly, there are other, substantive criteria that we do not have right now. We have hyponormity, we're subdued. We don't have the criteria, we don't have the criteria, we don't have the right tools for thinking. In my mind, I remember about ten years ago that the last major expert advice was on how to determine what criteria the content of which should be needed in order to be able to make a rational decision as to whether a congregation becomes a city congregation or not. And there is, of course, rich literature about this. At this point, however, we do not think that merely easing the criteria, merely reducing the lower threshold, is appropriate. Further to this minimisation of the basic conditions of the exception is to redefine the situation we now have. Other criteria, content related to space, urbanism, economic potential, the possibility of planning development, gravitational areas and so on, have become somehow marginal. And we judge that because we are now dealing with projects that are not the best and not the most convenient projects, we prefer to focus our powers on where we should probably be. This is a major project of regulating local self-government, including the regulation of the law on the financing of municipalities, including the regulation of municipalities and the placement of all of this in relation to future provinces and the country as a whole. That's why we don't think this is the right time to adopt such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that it is necessary and necessary to reflect on the status of both urban municipalities and major cities, as was said by the representative of the Slovenian National Party of Mr Barovic. According to the law in force, there are marked inequalities between the conditions that already exist in the city and those that should receive and wish for such status. I think it is unfair for the government to talk about some illegal and unconstitutional proposal, because it is illegal and unconstitutionally the current state and not what we want to do with any changes to the law, in fact, to remedy and amend. In order to eliminate such inequalities among the congregations, we should certainly ease the number of inhabitants. According to my assessment, even to remove the criterion, the attracted criterion of the number of jobs, which, as was said, only two municipalities meet, is said to be the largest Slovenian municipality. And in mockery of it all together, the government, in June changes, deleted all the provisions that had spoken and, in some way, set out the tasks of the municipalities, their powers and in this way showed that there was no position to these environments and it was best that all the members, except for this one, were deleted and the municipalities at this point in Slovenia, except for this article. We only have an article that talks about jobs and the number of people and nothing else. The procedure is no longer defined, for no one wants to talk about it. I am very interested in how the National Assembly will bring together and conclude the procedure for setting up and setting up municipal municipalities, when this, however, has been outlined with transitional provisions and articles. So that I think there is no possibility at this point for equal treatment of proposals for the creation of new municipalities. In particular, in the LDS, we are aware that the changes in the current law setting out the tasks have actually been eliminated from these differences between the municipalities and other municipalities and are no longer in fact. I think that this really confirms the stepmotherly relationship between the ruling coalition and the government with the urban and urban environments, because they do not normally have authority and political importance here, so they are doing the whole country harm in this regard. Maybe Mr. Bajc would come here for me. I don't know, there are obviously people talking to themselves out loud in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u165	Only Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u166	And when we gave the green light four days ago, also very unintentionally for the establishment of 18 new small congregations, this coalition does not have any kind words and kind moves towards larger congregations. We believe that the proposed amendment to the Law should be amended and the conditions for the status of the city council should be relaxed, taking into account the level that some existing municipal municipalities are now meeting. Here I think that sufficient calculations have been made by my colleague Barovic, who is also a co-proposer of this law. According to the law in force, there are inequalities between the conditions met by the existing municipalities and those requested for such status in order to eliminate such inequalities. We propose to reduce the criteria for the number of people and the number of jobs. And if you allow me, I would list these congregations so that you can imagine them better, which are those congregations we are limiting: Radovljica, Domžale, Jesenice, Kamnik, Ravne na Koroškem, Krško, Brežice, Lithia, Piran, Trbovlje, and you could list them. These are municipalities that strive to gain the status of the city’s congregation and have a long urban tradition. In doing so, I do not believe that he has at any rate matured the argument that this is in any way related to the provinces or regions, however they will be given these names. If the city’s congregations become centers, the future, regional or provincial, I do not think that anyone will object and do not intend to do so. However, we also do not want legislators, and we are Members and Members, to prevent the rapid development of these municipalities, which they might have, and in fact, because of the achievement of some of the impossible imaginary or criteria that have not been met by those who have just been shown something and have received this status in the past, but because of these reasons for this development we will not be able to stop. With existing legislation, it has also prevented potential development for some other municipalities such as Zagorje, Škofja Loka, Tržič, Ormož, Žalec, Kočevje, Slovenska Bistrica and could also list. In addition, due to the potential and the long history of urban tradition, there could also be certain exceptions, which we are also thinking about in the proposal, which could also be exceptionally per 12,000 people. However, such exceptions could cover such municipalities as Idria, Postojna and Slovenian Horsemen. Otherwise, the city's issues are also addressed by the Strategy for the Spatial Development of Slovenia. And as the city centre of national importance, it lists the municipality, and then adds some people, where the functions of the state, business, service and cultural institutions are concentrated. And these are the areas from which the demands for the city municipalities, such as Domžale-Kamnik, Jesenice-Radovljica, Piran-Isola-Koper, Trbovlje-Zagore-Hrastnik, Slovenj Gradec-Dravograd and so on. It is necessary to say that the status of the city municipality would also bring higher financial resources to such a municipality, as the budget would increase by about 2% to those municipalities which would gain status. This also seems right to me, for such congregations are also without a status that they would obviously never acquire in this country. Probably because we are not right or because we will have to wait for the ruling coalition to receive more mayors in such municipalities, cities and larger ones. Therefore, even without status, a number of central activities will be carried out for the wider environment. In these municipalities there are secondary and higher education centres. Higher education centers are already being established in these congregations, many of whom I have previously appointed. Here are the regional libraries. Many of them have theatres, museums, cultural and sports centres. Many also care about wider public transport. They include the headquarters of social work centres, employment institutions, administrative units, tax stations and the like. In addition, by amending the law, we also want to simplify the procedure for obtaining the status of the municipal municipality, especially in the sense that the implementation of the referendum and the determination of the will of citizens, in which case it does not seem appropriate, so we delete it. We believe that such a will would not be particularly necessary to determine, for the status of the city council would certainly have been neither proud nor proud of any of their citizens. In the Liberal Democracy, we believe that this is going to be a law, and we can say this now peacefully that the law will be rejected. Primarily rejected because the applicants are not the right ones. If and when many of the government coalition, New Slovenia and SDS proposed a crowd of new small municipalities, they were the right ones and the law changed. Today we have all the procedures arranged. Town halls are not important to anyone in this sense, they go backwards. We are also reminded of this by foreign experts in the reports on the state of our local self-government. Of course, nobody cares. In fact, this anti-urban mood, against the urban mood, is already a protective sign of the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you very much! The following is Mrs Pečanova's word on behalf of the SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u168	Good evening! The Group of Social Democrats supports the adoption of this law, because we believe that since 1994, or when the reform of local self-government was also carried out in 1995, a number of municipalities, which at the very beginning of the 141 municipalities and 11 municipalities, have made a very clear wish with the great support of the people of each uncontested city to gain such status. At that time, the criteria for establishing a city congregation were much sharper until, as previously said, article 16a was drawn with additional conditions, where it was also necessary to have a hospital, university or university as part of the university, university library and other features. Except for those from the beginning when the law decreed 20,000 inhabitants and 15,000 jobs were drawn together. Because if we go to a very systematic review of the ratio between the number of people and the number of jobs, practically nowhere in Slovenia is there a ratio of 20,000 to 15,000, 1 to three quarters. It is said that we should have three quarters of the jobs according to the number of inhabitants. The rule is to go and see for ourselves that about a third of the jobs are good, according to the number of people in the normal municipality. Maybe the relationship is different in Ljubljana and Maribor. Because there is an inflow of workers to jobs, it is said that the number of jobs is greater than the relative number of people and they are by this logic the only municipality in Slovenia that could have the status of a municipality. Because the logic of 15,000 jobs and 20,000 people somehow binds this relationship. So both conditions are expected to be met. Thus, the municipality, which has 20,000 inhabitants, does not meet the second condition and therefore cannot be a city municipality. We have heard this in practical cases today, which are those congregations that do not meet these conditions, but by that time the legislator had probably judged the State Assembly at the time, 1994, that these two numbers were wrong and that the right relationship should be taken into account. Therefore, logically, those most persistent municipalities: Radovljica, Domžale, Jesenice, Kamnik, Krško, Litija, Piran and Trbovlje certainly want and require the National Assembly to correct the law on local self-government by legalizing the current state of the municipal municipalities, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, so that the possibility of creating new municipalities, including Brežić, Zagorje ob Savi, Škofje Loka, Tržiča, Ormoža, Žalca, Kočevja, Slovenske Bistrice, Idrija, Postojna and Slovenski Konjic, is open. If we also look at the tradition of individual municipalities that want to gain the status of the city municipality, which, in fact, if we are honest, does not actually bring any special financial benefits, especially in those municipalities that are already being financed by themselves, because an additional 8% will certainly not bring any benefits to municipalities that are not receiving compensation, financial benefits, but will bring other new commitments, which will in fact speed up the possibility of development. Among other things, if we turn a little to jest, the city’s congregations are obliged to establish a city police by law. Therefore, we should also consider that the city’s municipalities will acquire additional obligations, not additional rights. Not to mention some other activities that will have to be carried out, from urban transport to urban passenger transport, of course. I would also like to point out in particular that, when we read Article 141 of the Constitution, I have to repeat what two colleagues, a colleague and a colleague before me, says that the Constitution does not say that we should not change the law because we fix the conditions for the establishment of city municipalities, change, reshape, but only prescribes that the municipalities should be established, on the basis of a law that lays down the conditions for establishment and on the basis of the law which also establishes the municipality. Nowhere does it say that a referendum must be held in order for the city’s congregation to be established. Nowhere does it say that there must be a condition of 20 thousand 15 thousand, nowhere in the constitution that there must be a hospital in the city congregation, which is no longer written in law and so on. Thus, the law on local self-government could be amended by simply deleting certain conditions for the establishment of the congregation, but now that the conditions for the establishment of the city's municipalities need to be relaxed, of course, this is, of course, unconstitutional. Unbelievable. For this reason, I believe that at least what it is, the government will have to change its position on this law at least when it claims that this law is unconstitutional because it proposes extending the possibility of establishing municipalities. In fact, when we monitor or review the names of municipalities that are interested in obtaining the status of the city municipality, it is interesting that they are scattered throughout Slovenia, that this desire, after gaining the status of the municipality, is certainly linked to history, to the past, to a distant past such as these municipalities more or less with rare exceptions, have already had the status of a city granted to them by the emperor or the Empress in the ancient past, I do not know exactly who the ruler of Austria was at the moment, because in Austria-Ogres were no longer granted city rights. I would also say that, in particular, the three municipalities in Slovenia had the status not even of the municipality, but even of the city's republics before the rivers and write, thousands and several years. Every man for himself. What can be determined by both city statutes and when they were listed in the records and how they were dealt with, say, by their greatest enemy and later by the mistress of the Republic of Venice. So surely, among all these municipalities, Piran is certainly the most entitled to this, but of course only 18,000 people and only 7 thousand jobs. Under the terms of this law, it does not fulfil the right to the status of the city’s congregation, but if it were to be fair, it probably has far more rights to the status of the city’s congregation than any of the city’s municipalities that have this status today. I think it would be right that, given that the law is essentially not required, that it will not mean any great burden for the State, in the vast majority of cases, there will be no need to increase the resources to compensate and, here, as we have in determining the eighteen referendum areas in the vast majority, we will satisfy the wishes of the people or you are that I will not have the credit for having voted against or abstained every time, of course, it is only right here that we are considering that the preference of the inhabitants of such status is very important, so I propose that, together with those Members and Members who believe that this relief is necessary in the law, you are also voting for such a change in the law on local self-government. Given that it now has the letter N, it would probably be good if we also slowly adopt one officially refined text, because we do not know where this law begins at the end and which article this law ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We have to adopt an officially consolidated text in accordance with the rules of procedure, and let us hope that this will be done as soon as possible. Mr Mikolič is next to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, chairman, and once again, welcome. We have heard many times today that from 193 municipalities there are 11 municipalities in Slovenia, namely, these municipalities were established by law establishing municipalities and in their areas in 1994. It is true that the applicant refers to the fact that some existing municipalities do not already meet all the conditions laid down by the existing law, namely, 20,000 people, 15,000 jobs and so on. Therefore, the proposed law should ease the conditions for obtaining the status of the city municipality by reducing the number of inhabitants to 15,000, in exceptional cases even to 12,000 and 5,000 jobs. It would also simplify the procedure for obtaining the status of the municipal municipality, and among other things a referendum would not be carried out. Let me just give you some facts. Formally, the municipalities differ functionally from other municipalities only by transferring certain powers from the state level to the city municipality by law. Of course, it is logical for those tasks to be passed on that would be important for the development of the city. After more than ten years, we can now see that these powers have not been transferred to the existing city halls, so today we can see that the differences between the jurisdiction of the municipalities and the municipal municipalities are minimal. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party, however, we agree that this inappropriate distribution of powers does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. The main reasons for this are the unfulfilled intention of establishing the expansion of self-government local communities and decentralisation of jurisdiction to the level of the provinces and the unfinished deconcentration of the state administration. As we know, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly judged the fulfilment of the conditions for the establishment of city halls. Two main findings are that the municipality is established to enable its inhabitants to participate meaningfully and functionally in the management of local public affairs in the city as a specific urban local community. However, it is not possible to include a local community, which is not functionally part of this urban part of the city, because this is contrary to the democratic principles of local self-government, because this would, on the one hand, prevent local self-government for the inhabitants of the city and, on the other hand, for the inhabitants of this local community. These criteria for the establishment of an area of the municipality were stated by the Constitutional Court that it could not be included in the municipal municipality of a suburban area which meets the conditions for the establishment of a separate municipality, so that it could also be included in a separate suburban area, unless it meets the conditions for the establishment of a special municipality. I am not so sure that if we take this into account, these proposals proposed by the proposer would also have the conditions for the establishment of city halls. Otherwise, in the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the government's view that changing the conditions for the status of municipalities at the moment does not mean more appropriate content of local self-government in urban centres, but only some empty status that the current municipalities already have. It is true, however, that the city’s municipalities are additionally financed by 4% as part of the appropriate spending. If we now look at the congregations that, according to the proposal of the proposer, meet the conditions for becoming city halls, I am talking about those already mentioned in the draft law on those 16 municipalities or 19 municipalities, we can find that in all these municipalities, administrative units are established. As a result, this municipality already receives 4% or 4% of the corresponding spending. Of all these congregations, Piran is a municipality that does not receive financial compensation but is financed by itself. I am speaking for 2006 and I do not think, as some of you are before me, I have tried and looked at the right spending for 2006, which would mean that it would be necessary to provide an additional 672 million tolars for the proposal of the municipalities of Domžale, Jesenice, Kamnik, Krško, Lithuania, except for Piran, Radovljica and Trbovlje. For the second group: Brežice, Kočevje, Ormož, Slovenska Bistrica, Škofja Loka, Tržič, Zagorje ob Savi, Žalec 719, and the third group in 112, circus billion 400 thousand additional funds in the 2006 budget. As we know, this 2006 budget has been adopted and these resources are not in the budget. However, in the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party we agree that the law on the financing of municipalities should define more in a more reasoned manner the eligibility for additional funds to municipalities where the administrative unit and the municipal municipalities are established. Among other things, at least this is what we expect, these solutions should bring about a new law on the financing of municipalities. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, the changes in the law will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you very much. And the last one is Michael Prevc, on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, which we are considering today in the context of the general debate, relate to the regulation of the status of the municipal municipality. The proposed law amends the conditions for the establishment of a city municipality and at the same time lays down the procedure for determining the status of the city municipality. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree in principle that the issue of the procedure for determining the status of the municipality must be resolved, but it may also be necessary to reconsider the conditions for the formation of the city municipality. Certainly, the existing situation, when we have certain municipalities that do not meet the legal conditions for obtaining this status, is not appropriate. However, Members of the Slovenian People's Party do not support the proposed law. We would like to highlight the importance of the status of the city’s congregation. The content of this status falls within the framework of functional self-government. The city’s municipalities can also carry out certain public tasks that are important for the development of cities by law. At present, there is no significant difference between ordinary and urban municipalities regarding jurisdiction. The question of the establishment of additional municipalities, which would enable the proposed law, is, in our opinion, particularly related to the issue of their function in the light of the current drafting of legislation for the introduction of regions or landscapes. An increase in the number of municipalities that would have an interest in taking over the functions of larger local units or provinces would be inappropriate. I therefore support the efforts of the Government's Local Self-Government and Regional Development Service to establish the provinces as soon as possible and to determine their responsibilities. This should also be followed by an appropriate definition of the status of the municipality and a study of its meaning. The bill also contains a procedure for determining the status of the municipal municipality. This is equivalent to the procedure for changing the areas of municipalities or establishing new municipalities. In our view, there are two completely different procedures and we cannot support the proposal in this part as well. Of course, we expect the competent minister to prepare a proposal on the organisation of the regions in Slovenia as soon as possible, and consequently the appropriate regulation of the issues still open to the municipalities in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I invite the first to the word of Mr Bevek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia introduced a law on amendments and additions to the law on local self-government in the legislative process in May this year. The mayors and representatives of eight Slovene municipalities, including Domžal, Jesenic, Kamnik, Krske, Litija, Piran, Radovljica and Trbovelj, requested the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw the proposed amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government from the procedure and to prepare a new text, which should also contain new criteria for the establishment of municipal municipalities. There was no response to the letter of 9 June sent to the President of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister and the competent Minister, Dr. Žagar. At that time, we adopted the law, or most of it, in the National Assembly. In this initiative, 8 Slovenian mayors were proposed to take into account proposals relating to the establishment of municipalities and to ease the provisions relating to the conditions for obtaining municipal status. They do not fully meet the prescribed criteria nor do the already established city halls, so the drafter of the law should design the censorship according to the existing situation. At the moment, no equal treatment options have been set up for the consideration of proposals for the establishment of new municipalities in relation to the already established municipalities. It would make sense to simplify the procedure for acquiring the status of the municipal municipality, since this change does not have as much consequences as it does when establishing new municipalities or when changing the boundaries of existing municipalities, it could be very elegant to do so. Provisions relating to municipal municipalities should be re-examined and meaningful and systematically prepared provisions should be drawn up which would give the municipalities greater executive power, in particular in the area of space, construction of buildings and certain others. And since there was no response by the government or reply was very honey and is now repeating itself in the government's position, I then addressed a special parliamentary initiative. It stated that it should be considered that the criterion of 20,000 inhabitants should be reduced to 15,000 inhabitants and that the provision in Article 16, paragraph 3, which requires at least 15,000 jobs and at least half of them in tertiary and quarterly activities should be deleted. The existing legislation makes it impossible to develop, which some other municipalities, such as Brežice, Slovenska Bistrica, Zagorje ob Savi, Kočevje, Kamnik, Škofja Loka, could potentially have. The potential and long historical urban tradition could make exceptions, but the population should by no means be less than 12 000. This exception could include the municipality of Idrija, which was the second largest city in Kranjska in 1900, immediately for Ljubljana, and of course some other municipalities could find their place here as an exception. Since 1991, the former Slovenian municipalities or headquarters of these municipalities, with the exception of eight or a maximum of fourteen potential centres of new provinces or new administrative districts, have consistently lost their powers at the expense of the gradual and ruthless centralisation of the new country. In this reform, only the new small congregations gained the truths of government and government reform. Now there will be some new ones that often did not even have the most basic legal conditions for operation or establishment. However, almost all the new capitals, especially the newly formed city halls, have been acquired, and among them we also find those, as I said earlier, that do not meet all the legal standards. However, all the municipal centers between small and urban municipalities were constantly lost. They have lost all powers in various areas, such as inspection services, tax and geodetical administrations, defence and protection and rescue areas, areas of space regulation and so on and so on. The abolition of administrative units is also expected in the foreseeable future. The Coalition Treaty states that you will change the territorial structure of the state administration by forming 12 or a maximum of 14 exhibitions from the current 58 administrative units. All these interventions, together with the announced degradation of administrative units, are and will also contribute to the outflow of highly skilled and university-educated personnel to larger centres. I am convinced that such an intervention also constitutes a significant loss of jobs. I will not now mention these municipal centres, and this may not be directly related to the question of the establishment of municipalities, but it is linked to the question of the process of reducing the powers of former municipalities that existed before the reform of local self-government in 1994 and all general dissatisfaction with the law on the financing of municipalities. This is also one of the reasons why some major city centres and some major city halls are trying to achieve the status of the municipal municipalities, and I think it would be correct for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to listen to this idea, although its negative opinion speaks otherwise, but I would still appeal to Members and Members of the ruling coalition to support the proposal proposed by Members of the various parliamentary groups with the first signed colleague of Orazmovo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] He's quitting. Then it's up to you, Mr. Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The great hope that anyone who is certain would convince in this national assembly is not really. But even though in the past I had doubts about the establishment of the city’s congregations or, rather, the transformation of the congregations, so - called ordinary congregations, into the city congregation, I am convinced today that a step forward in this area should be taken. Although the city municipality itself at the moment, even if it is self-financed, does not mean any significant difference from a municipality that does not have this status, but the difference is not mainly because we have stopped in one particular process at a certain point in time, and that is when we said it is possible to pass on the individual powers that are now under the jurisdiction of the State, the municipalities, the municipal municipalities, to those who meet the conditions for them to do so. We have not done so, and so the city congregation is essentially no different from the congregation and it will be necessary here to speed up preparations primarily for the establishment of the provinces. And here I certainly agree with the Minister that it is necessary to establish the provinces in the country. If the provinces had already been introduced to me, and if these provinces, so the second degree of local self-government in our country, were already in operation, there probably wouldn’t be so much pressure for the city’s municipalities. If we had a country, a province, and then a congregation. Somehow, however, I feel that the assessment that you are individual centers to receive the status of the city’s congregation would then not want the provinces, here I think that this assessment is not accurate, is not real, and that the city’s centres or municipalities have already proved that they are still interested in the provinces that are forming around these centers. A good example in recent activities is Ptuj and Velenje, who according to this logic would not be a generator for the establishment of landscapes if this claim were valid. I am sure that this law would not do any particular harm, but at the same time I am sure that there are very great benefits at the moment. Nevertheless, I support the proposaler's efforts to somehow free up the opportunity to transform the municipalities into city halls. However, I also have doubts about this law, which provides for an exception. I would somehow say that the exception was not to repeat the error that we are making every time we establish new congregations and to say that 15,000 people are the number needed to establish a city congregation, provided that there are also 5,000 jobs. However, if we want to do the matter as it should, there should probably be another additional condition, which is the self - financing of these city congregations. The municipalities that are now tied to the balance are, of course, congregations that are not somehow the real city congregation. And as far as I know, there's something about that now. Of course, it is to say that the reason that some congregations do not meet the conditions for the city’s congregations now is that, while others cannot obtain them or are deprived of them, it is a completely identical story, such as the story of the establishment of congregations, where we refer to exceptions that have occurred in the past, and we want to confirm them as a rule also in the new establishment of congregations. So, despite some of the concerns I have in this law and perhaps even propose a second-reading amendment to amend certain matters, I think it is worth the first reading of this law after the general discussion to support, that is to say, a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you. Since the status of the city’s congregations has been so unfortunately distributed to some cities ten years ago, we are in a situation like this today. But I am more wondering precisely because of those 4% of the additional funding, given that we have indeed not transferred any powers of the State or any new tasks to these municipalities. And this is a big question for me, which will have to be resolved in the future, in particular by the law on the financing of municipalities. However, it is true that the applicants may be reluctant to receive the status of the city’s congregation at that time, some of whom today have the same capacity or the same number of people, and this is not possible with regard to jobs. That is why I believe it is a serious task for the government to try to solve this problem as soon as possible, and I am sure it will. Given that there are no financial resources in the budget for the following year, I believe that, given that I have already made this table, the Municipality of Domžale as a city municipality would be very happy to receive 127 million additional funds, or the Municipality of Kamnik 116 million at 2 billion 900 suitable spending. Once again, in fact, only one municipality is self-financing, which means that all municipalities needed to be further stimulated if they acquired the status of the municipal municipality, in accordance with the applicable law on the financing of the municipality. So once again, I can't really support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Janc's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! We have the municipalities we have so far in Slovenia. And for me personally, it is not a problem with the number of urban congregations, whether there will be more or not, that is more important to me when we will receive the singing region or the province of Posavje for many years. This is a story that is of great importance to Slovenia. This is what will obviously happen, even when this story comes to Parliament by the government, and here is enough political will in this Parliament to make this story that many of the mandates of the National Assembly have failed to bring through so much that this time we will reach these provinces in Slovenia with public powers, financial resources. In the meantime, it will certainly be appropriate to talk about the cities of the congregations, whether there are enough or there will be more. I think that the time is right to go one step at a time, but the government has this in mind, they have somehow put it into the priorities of next year, I hope that we will follow it in Parliament and then certainly follow up on this issue that the applicants are giving here today. I think that this is another appeal to the government and to all of us to speed up this story, and that at the same time we are also trying to put these city halls, which may be new to this game, in this package. I don't mind. I think that many of these congregations, whose cities that formally meet certain conditions, could come into this key that already exists in the city. The proponents fully understand, it's in place, but at this point, I think it's overtaken on the right. This is never good, neither in traffic nor in life. Let us be so patient if you have waited for so many years, and wait a few more years for your department to rule, and at that time let us make this story. At the same time, I believe that there are very few who support this law to be good. It is certainly too weak, it is not good, it is not transparent, it is not fair to all Slovene municipalities in particular to small Slovenian municipalities, and it will be difficult to work here for the Ministry of Local Self-Government, Finance and the whole government, probably also in Parliament, as it will be possible to find this more nut here than the establishment of landscapes in Slovenia. I believe that if the will is, if the goal is, then success will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic is on his way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! First, a few clarifications. One of the previous speakers said that he had done a lot of research, analysed, and that he had found out, among other things, that I would start with funds, the necessary resources for which he calculated that there were no billions of them at the expense of establishing new municipalities. I think he has looked too little into it, and these resources are in the 2006 budget. They are provided on the budget user 16, the Ministry of Finance, within the scope of 0.6 local self-government, within the framework of the main programme, 0.602 co-financing of the activities of municipalities in the lower part of the municipalities and associations of municipalities and sub-programme 0.6021601 supplementary funds to municipalities. The funds granted to the municipalities for this purpose are increasing by 4 billion. So much for the accuracy of the examination. I'm sorry, secondly, that he's not with us as a representative of the state council. Opinions shall be taken against the merits of the existence of the State Council or not. Obviously, it proves the State Council that we are right and that the State Council is not needed, because there are also local interests there in addition to economic and other interests. And look at the fraction of it, miraculously, gentlemen of state saints have been very enthusiastic about supporting and participating in the formation of new congregations and confirming and giving them all the right and the best and the best. In the formation of a law that speaks of the establishment of city halls, however, it was found to be a political game. I would ask very nicely for at least a written response from any representative of the State Council, in which is a political game to amend the two articles that change only numbers and numbers. In particular, I am the mayor of the municipality of Trbovlje. Even by chance, you can keep a gun to my head, and I don't know why I would want Trbovlje to be a city congregation. I'm talking about a political reason. I would like it to be a city hall because it has almost 19,000 people, because it has almost 6,000 employees, because it has a cultural home, it has a theatre hall, a cinema hall, assembly rooms, lecture rooms, a gallery, a wine museum, a hospital, a health house. And it's a geographic, urban center that actually has everything. If these are political reasons, fine. I'm on it. I agree that it has been, I say, since I've been dealing with local self-government since I've been on the board that it is necessary to divide Slovenia into provinces at the so-called level of NUTS 3. Yes, but, ladies and gentlemen, I also agree with the allegations [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'll talk a little faster. I agree with the claims that it is right to build systematically. But whether it is systematic for us to form one congregation, then we will build regionalisation, and on the other hand we must first arrange to establish a city congregation. It's chaos. It's a chaotic act. I am in favour of establishing all the municipalities, and then the provinces or vice versa, first the provinces at NUTS level 3, then all the other municipalities. That's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have heard many reasons from those who advocate even more city halls, smaller city halls. Many of these did not advocate for smaller congregations days ago. But we know the criteria, they can be understood differently or they can be stretchy. I personally do not think that there should be too much desire to establish, for example in this case, a city municipality for reasons of obtaining some specific support from the state. If the new congregations now have an ambition to become city halls, what is the criteria, we do not know exactly how to introduce functions that we believe will become more urban. Although we know that some small municipalities or even current local communities, say, Kostanjevica on Krka have many functions that are supposed to be typical of urban municipalities, except for, say, secondary or higher education, educational functions. However, I agree with those who believe that we should take a holistic approach to this. Overall, in the sense that somehow in one integrated way, at the same time, we do this medium level, we introduce a medium level that must be consistent with good, now cohesion regions are unlikely to - with what the state wants to do on the ground and what the municipalities are supposed to carry to a higher level. In fact, these two transfers from the municipal level and from the state level should be coordinated. These regions, as we like to call them NUTS 3 regions or whatever, should actually function as provinces. In some ways, then, the function of the city’s municipalities should be properly introduced. Another aspect is that it does not really matter whether one congregation is a city or a city congregation. It is important that we have within, say, future landscapes, some appropriate concentrations and some appropriate centres. This is important. But the great characteristic of Slovenia, some believe that the essential quality, while others say for urban centres that it is a weakness, is the great dispersion, the smallness of settlements, a large number of settlements. There's no real concentration. In particular, this applies to large cities. We don't actually have a typical big city. Thank God, because everyone who comes to Ljubljana is surprised that it is such a beautiful green city. We know that there is still a lot to be arranged in Ljubljana, and elsewhere, that it is such a pleasant city, the capital of the state of Slovenia. They expect a higher concentration, a really high concentration of large buildings, some ghettos that appear in large cities. More than once in our own, I would say, we even talk to slaves, because Slovenia is for one suburb of Munich. That's our usual term. But in all these circumstances, it is difficult to speak now, but how are these municipalities now to be distributed within some of the future provinces that should actually be thoroughly reexamined in terms of what we are going to take from the congregations and what we are going to take from the country? Above all, to prevent what is actually happening and all the discussions, numbers and seats are spinning. Not what we will achieve with the right landscape. For me, it is essential that spatial, urban, transport and environmental systems with water supply then act as a whole in some closed territory, which is supposed to be as geographically as possible, but not administratively determined. It is necessary to take a comprehensive approach to the matter here. It is true, however, that if the state fails to do so, such initiatives will take place. We have a theatre and a museum in our congregation, and they are both private. And it will be difficult to run for city hall in some part of Ljubljana, 15 minutes from the opera house, which makes no sense to have it in its place. I think that the country or this government, as promised, should approach this matter. In addition, with all the evidence that the current government, the current ministry, had fallen into a relationship, what was done in those days when you had the power and could also introduce it. But I don't think that's the point of today's debate. I expect that there will be a meaningful introduction of the provinces. My opinion is as few provinces as possible, as few provinces as possible, perhaps even better, and at least we would argue if we somehow introduced historical landscapes that have a long history, Styria, Kranjska and Primorska. That probably won't be possible, the church's doing more than three, they're going to six, and they're already in trouble. How are these six now to be increased by some areas, because these three additional ones are that there are still many other areas in Slovenia that have the right to, say, a new diocese in this case. Here it is wiser to stay on as small a number as possible, an increase in inflation means an even greater increase in desire and appetite for such division. At the moment, and this initiative is not at the right time, and it should be set up in some way within the introduction of the provinces also those concentrated functions that must act distributed, not only in the cities themselves, but not only in the back of the country's desire for acquisitions and some additional large funds. At this point, it is difficult for me to support such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to have to repeat some of the things my predecessors have already mentioned. I would like to point out that the law that established the city’s congregations was adopted in 1994. A number of governments have changed at that time, and it is not this current government that has prevented all these eleven years from possibly amending the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and consequently the provisions defining the way and conditions for the formation of municipal municipalities. Secondly, what I would like to say, and here I would just agree with some of the debaters, especially the debater of colleague Bredo Pecanovo, I agree with you that a number of congregations from those who, on the basis of the changed criteria for the establishment of the municipalities, should have been established long ago, probably also in 1994, to mention one here because she mentioned herself, Piran I know from the study on the Statute, but she also had the same status, I think Kostanjevica on Krka. I think he still has a thousand and a few years of city rights today, I think it's also the former Holy Cross, or today the Vipav Cross in the Vipav Valley, and there are some of those that have been in the past, decades, even for centuries, when they have met the conditions. Some of the things you mentioned about what these congregations were supposed to have were emphasized, but it was not basic. I personally estimate that the basic is only an increase in appropriate consumption. Why do I say that? Because these two articles, which are the subject of today's debate, one that changes the criteria and the other is 'vacation legis', is said when this law enters into force, I think it is written here even immediately. I think it's also nonsense to come into force immediately. It would likely come into force as other laws that change, or when we established congregations. Now I will say again, even if I liked it, because one of the congregations that could be formed in the preceding paragraph of this first article, no, in the second paragraph says that, exceptionally, municipalities with at least 12,000 inhabitants can also become Postojna. In no way are the other conditions for the formation of these congregations. But we are only talking about the number of people and the number of jobs is not changing and we are assessing that, because of the possible increase in the so-called appropriate use, it is not to change to the nose of this law, but I expect from the Government, as in some sense it was understood that the law on the establishment of municipalities was changing and when some of you were discussing it, but I think that in the establishment of those 17 municipalities that we adopted at this meeting, we have adhered to those provisions that were in force in the current law and I think that we have not adopted or signed a referendum area for not one that would have met those conditions that were in the established law that was passed, but this State Council did not adopt it, but this State Assembly, I think that it adopted it in May this year. So perhaps my appeal, with the understanding of some colleagues and colleagues who advocate the adoption of this law, to the government to consider actually trying, in the shortest possible time, not only to prepare a copy of the law on local self-government, but to prepare a comprehensive legislation that will try to regulate such a small, medium, urban and not least to get to the law on the capital or capital of this country, when I do not know how many times it has been tried and it has not been adopted. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you very much. It's Dr. Gantar's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to present my opinion with the opinion of my colleague, Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, who said that this law will not be adopted pessimistically because the applicants are not real. As we can say, it will not be adopted either because the law is not true, not just those who propose. The fact is that what we have seen in the last days when we passed laws related to local elections and the reorganisation of municipalities is the fact that we have a serious anti-urban policy and anti-urban coalition to deal with in Slovenia. Both in government and in the National Assembly. If we look at what we have done in the last days, we can find that we have caused even greater territorial and social fragmentation of Slovenia, warned against the opposite trends leading to integration. With this we have increased, you want, you don't want, the incompetence of small municipalities to face problems that are increasingly difficult and require a solution that even exceeds local levels. A while ago, the government, nothing to you, completely unnecessaryly adopted a regulation on two cohesion regions, which also falls within this context of anti-urban policy and anti-urban coalition in Slovenia. There were many today, as in previous talk on the number of peoples as a condition for the establishment of congregations. All those who then demeaned this criterion when small congregations were to be established today say how important the number of inhabitants of cities and municipalities is. I myself have repeatedly argued that the then law adopted in the early 1990s, in the number of people as one of the criteria, far away, was the most important, trying to follow some theory of central places, which is not very important even today because many things happened in between. And I also said that I do not oppose a small congregation even after 2,000 people if it meets the conditions. Also for the establishment of the city municipality, the number of people is not excluded and the only condition. A real and serious condition is the central functions of such a place and its associated city hall. These are the so-called "higher order" functions that range from meeting everyday needs - I will not say what they are - and allow such cities and municipalities to be the development center, with ups and downs, which, after all, can be known throughout the wider area. Geographers from the 1970s have been alerting Dr. Igor Vrisar in particular to the specific problem in Slovenia, and this is a problem of the lack of so-called medium-sized cities. There is no problem in Slovenia according to the size of territory, population, Ljubljana or even Maribor. The problem is cities and cities among, say, 15, 20 to 30 thousand inhabitants. This article, which is largely missing, has, of course, also resulted in the fact that we do not have in some way some kind of intermediate article and the development potentials involved. True, Slovenia is scattered, populated with about 6,000 settlements, the concentration is gradually going on anyway, but people come from where they want to keep them, not from where they might want such concentration. And concentration is a negative concept in Slovenia today, and this is also seen today. Dispersion is something I have to agree with, but concentration is already a negative concept. Why do I think it would be good to facilitate the establishment of city halls? Because the city’s municipalities represent a response to the fragmentation and secession of goods areas, which are under the influence of the city and thus potentially the city’s municipalities. And if you think that this is also in some way the will of people, I would remind you of the sentence that is today in Del: "Woeing they wondered whether it is possible that the National Assembly simply beats decisions and regulations that apply at local level and ignores the will of people from Poland who want to remain within the borders of the Zagreb Congregation." It's the will of the people. Therefore, in the light of this, this law - if I knew that this would happen in these days, I would suggest that we write a more radical law. In order to strengthen the competence of the municipal municipalities and to effectively highlight this role played by cities and municipalities in spatial, social and economic development. Today we have in principle exactly the same regulation for Ljubljana, which has 250,000 inhabitants, and for Osilnica. Please! It's a good thing New York isn't in Slovenian territory, because then we'd have it for New York. And you're gonna say New York is a local community or something? Cities and municipalities have emerged from the vocabulary of politics and have even stepped out of statistics in socialism, since the cities have been likened to the development of urban, bourgeois culture. And that wasn't the first time. Remember the anti-urbanists, after the October revolution, who wanted to resettle cities and disorganize so-called deurbanists, we remember radical interventions during the period of the cultural revolution and similar, all that was associated with the opposition to development progress has always been anti-urban. And, understandably, the city had to be set up and thus the city's municipalities had to be destroyed, even because they were a symbol of development, capitalism, innovation of change. With the institution of the municipal municipality, the anti-urban sentiment has withdrawn slightly, since the cities have been recognised by the institution of the municipal municipality and today is back on track, this time in the form of some right-wing reincarnation of anti-urbanity. This anti-urbanity, of course, is not only ideological, it is also political and economic. Political in the sense that it is a realignment of political power, in favour, in rural indications, and, of course, which should benefit mainly the parties, mainly the parties to the ruling coalition, and, of course, through the fragmentation of municipalities, it is an increase in principals, subsidies, which means economic redistribution in favour of the so-established smaller municipalities. Remember, most of society’s wealth is created in cities, and these could be urban congregations. Remember, by destroying and neglecting cities, we are hurting ourselves, not forgetting that rural areas and cities have to go in some development with our hands in hand, sometimes conflicted, sometimes less, to remember that innovation also comes from towns and that we cannot forget that we cannot work new Slovenia again on some rural basis. The urban system in Slovenia cannot function because of such a policy that you are leading and, in fact, because they are increasingly connected in transport, I believe that this law should be supported and, more than that, upgraded quickly by new provisions that would strengthen the role and position of cities and municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The word is "minister."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. I certainly do, in the course of this debate, think I have to call because I do not understand this anti-urban debate about the anti-urban orientation of this policy. In fact, the government and the coalition, I think they are following a policy of coherent regional development. And therefore, of course, I strongly reject what has been said. I would even say the opposite, I see through this elements of centralist policy, which has been present all this time and has resulted in the fact that we have very different municipalities today, which we have in two categories. And if it has already been written in the constitution that we have city halls, I believe that at the time the constitutional proponents, of course, believed that they would have some special status. However, we can see that at that time nothing has happened that we have city halls and other congregations that are practically performing the same tasks because no downsizing has been done in the past period. Today, at this point, there is an open debate on the establishment of the provinces. That is why we see no reason to rush into the establishment of new and new municipalities, but it is reasonable, of course, to link this debate to the establishment of the provinces. I believe, of course, that you are serious about your advocacy, even when it comes to the adoption of a law on coherent regional development on the establishment of landscapes, of course also in terms of decentralisation of the country and consistent regional development, as well. And that is, in my opinion, an essential point and, of course, at this point we are not defending a law that would in some way cause further problems, including with regard to the establishment of landscapes. Let's face it, that's a fact. Some of the proposals regarding the establishment of landscapes also come directly from the source of some city halls. And we want, of course, to give the municipalities the right position through this process. I agree with this and many comments are in place as regards the congregations. We have very different congregations. It's probably very difficult to get them into just two categories. The second part is, of course, linked to this funding of the municipalities. Whatever. That's a fact. And I, too, cannot agree in this case with the fact that, of course, this year's policy has been directed against it. On the contrary, we have, of course, rectified the financial situation of the municipalities in the context of the possibility, and also many other congregations, a little larger, which are now among the proposals for the municipalities, have received quite a bit from this title. However, I agree that this is not an ideal solution and that is why we are preparing to amend the system law on the financing of municipalities, which must otherwise solve these problems. However, it is true that when we have a system law, there will likely still be a number of municipalities from some areas that will remain blocked. And we can't agree that these things are also leading in the opposite direction. And as you mentioned, of course, there is a shortage of cities that would have 30,000 inhabitants. Such new cities are no longer practically present in this proposal. We are in line with the existing law, with these criteria, of course, we have looked at this. But none of the ten proposals proposed met these conditions. It's not simple. So that's also the opposite of what you're saying. However, the fact is that there is some prevailing situation in the area of the establishment of urban municipalities is not right, and we agree with that, but we want to correct it systematically. We want to convey, we also want to achieve, in fact, the transfer of powers, tasks together with financial resources and, of course, also with the relevant structures down. But for us, of course, the decentralisation of the state at this point in terms of the establishment of the provinces and, at the same time, the resolution, at the same time, is not a follow-up, but also a solution to the status of individual municipalities. However, the status of the congregations must also be different through the new Law on Community Financing. Last but not least, we have three types of municipalities under the Law on Community Financing, not two, as envisaged in this basic part of the Constitution. Of course, these things need to be set up differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u192	It's short because it's still time. Look, Minister, consistent regional development, now we will not go into a discussion without need and yet I would say that the problem of coherent regional development, we see the region as a whole, is said together with its respective territory, city and rural areas if we have this region. Therefore, we need to understand coherent regional development as favouring rural areas at the expense of cities. First of all, if there's any other issue, of course we can start talking, it'll be hard for you to convince me. Another time. The establishment of the provinces has no direct connection with the establishment of the city’s municipalities, even I would say that I find the way to this very meaningful, organic, for example. And of course why we haven't done this before. We, at least as I know, but you can express to me some of the things that I say anti-urban politics, we didn't lead, so there was no big need. Maybe even if someone says, I apologize, maybe we did. I think as far as the size of the cities is concerned, I've been talking from 15 to 30, like a middle town. Clearly, we don't have 30,000 of them to talk more about the lower limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u193	Mr. Minister, there are no replicas on the replica, but you can report to the debate whenever you want. This is either a discussion or a replica of a replica because I would like you not to abuse the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u194	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u195	Good. Let's have a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u196	This is now a debate, but I would still like to know in concrete terms what this policy is, of course, currently governed by this coalition and this government is truly anti-urban. I'd really like to know that, specifically. As far as establishing landscapes and centralism is concerned, this is also a matter to be taken very carefully. We do not want to probably bring ourselves some new lower local centralisms, which may also be extremely problematic, but this does not mean, again, that, of course, the city or the city must not be given the status and the place they are going. However, this will have to be dealt with very carefully in this whole story.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. It's Mr. Hwauc's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In recent times we have heard a great deal about local self-government, debates are very different, indicating that this is a very varied area. I would give a general assessment in this area, but the prevailing situation is as we have connected it, actually chaotic. We have municipalities that have some 100 people, we have municipalities that have some 100,000 people, we have municipalities that do not meet some minimum legal requirements, we have 11 municipalities that do not meet the requirements of the law, we have no financing system for municipalities that are inappropriate, we have no provinces. In the field of local self-government, I see great, great chaos. The accusations that we are crushing Slovenia to break it down by setting up these new congregations, I don't think they're holding. We have only set the lowest limit on the number of people and have allowed these few potential municipalities to become independent, to check their will at the referendum and if the referendum will be positive, then I think these new institutions will also happen. I don't see any anti-urban policies here. I would like to know what has worsened for the urban centres this year. Who and how he acted against these centers. I don't see any reasons here. However, I am concerned that those who propose to amend this law, as one of the reasons, state the unconstitutional and illegal state of affairs. I'm asking you nicely, since when is this situation, why is this situation? From the previous term. Why the sudden concern for legality and constitutionality? We'll take a look at the magnetogram. Unconstitutional and illegal is the current state of affairs. To talk about the stepmother's attitude toward this problem, but please, please, it is at the very limit of good taste. Also different criteria - a few days ago we listened, crush Slovenia, go to smaller criteria and so on, everything was wrong. But today he's defending something else, and this thing, I don't know, holds water. Let us be principled, be consistent, and apply the same criteria. And it's possible. In fact, I do not see any rational reasons for amending this law, at a time when we do not have any provinces, when we do not know exactly what kind of jurisdiction the congregations will have in the future. So it seems to me that the only reason why congregations change their status is that they get a little bit in the financial sense, which they probably don't mind in principle, but if you give it to someone, they have to take it somewhere, and that's the problem. This problem will have to be solved somehow differently. And yet, with all due respect to fellow Members and Members who have signed this bill and are also mayors, I support the fact that they are fighting for their municipalities, but first they are Members and then the mayors. Of course, I won't support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I think I have been in this national assembly for the fourth time, as an elected Member, and surely for at least the third time I have heard an argument that a law in the field of local self-government has been introduced at the wrong time. In the 1996-2000 mandate, I know that I have also tabled an initiative or amendment to make Jesenice a city municipality. And at that time, it was said that it was wrong at the wrong time. This wrong time is obviously some perpetum cell phone, and it's never going to be the right time. It is also interesting - and there was no particular argument to justify this opinion by the Minister - that, until we know what we will do with the provinces or regions, such a law as we propose today is disturbing. I also do not see any direct link between how we will shape our future regionalism and the establishment of the provinces and, while we are proposing that certain municipalities where the centers of these municipalities are some city’s cores be allocated and recognised as a city congregation. I am speaking, of course, of the Municipality of Jesenice, which had the status of a city in the early 19th century, if I recall correctly, has a central regional hospital, has a secondary education with a famous high school, where now the Minister of Education does not agree that Mr Mencinger would be a member of the world of this high school, but let us leave it at the side. He's got a theater, he's got an ironworks, he's got a museum, he's got a leading hockey club if you want. And the Autumns were always a city and the Autumns always felt like the townspeople. And why does the government think in this way 'no, we won't grant this status now', why doesn't it think otherwise, or would the granting of this status just mean some added value, some new start to the people living there, in order to otherwise and more pervasively and more appropriately undertake certain tasks? I don't understand this tantrum, I apologize for this expression, instead of just the opposite, the government is promoting some kind of momentum and some new development trend. And it is true that Jesenice has all the criteria that would be counted by law among those needed to establish a city congregation, but unfortunately there are not 15,000 jobs. It is not surprising that, after it was actually ironworks, which was one of the leaders in the former Yugoslavia reduced or better said somehow collapsed, for now very successful Akroni, I must stress this, at the same time frightened, the number of jobs deleted. But look, I really don't understand why the government is thinking so restrictively, why not admit something that is true, or whether Škofja Loka is not a city, or can't be a city congregation, is, Radovljica, look who knows Radovljica more precisely, and because he needs to know that if any city and environment, Radovljica is also the one that belongs to the status of the city congregation. Well, and when Mr. Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party spoke earlier about not understanding why some refer here to the illegal situation with regard to municipalities, of course it is illegal to see how many municipalities in Slovenia are established beyond the criteria applicable in the law and even beyond the exceptions, but on the one hand the government somehow permits the situation of bringing the congregation to each farrah and, on the other hand, to those cities and the environment where it is a traditional city, they should not be entitled to the establishment or recognition of the city. I can't explain myself in any other way than that there are some political criteria here, perhaps even these, so I quickly examined and found that, in fact, in these cities or in these municipalities, where some of us are now advocating for the status of the city municipality, in fact, the mayors are traditionally from another option, rather than from those that are mostly valid. Well, that's mostly true, if I'm wrong, I'm sorry, but it's very annoying that we're doing things this way. As far as I'm concerned, we've done this local government a long time ago, that's true, even all of you working in government, government services, the minister, maybe a little less, you know that the Council of Europe, when it considered the situation in the field of local self-government in Slovenia, assessed that Slovenia was going in the direction of too small municipalities, which are financially not self-sufficient, and the Council of Europe at that time recommended that the State should adopt such legislation, which would incorporate criteria that would actually motivate small municipalities to unite. Of course, none of this is because obviously it is better to be first in the village than others in Rome, as they once said. And now I don't know when it's going to be the right time, let's say for the Jesenice, to become a city congregation. But please don't fool us by deciding on the matter that deals with the problem of regionalism in our country, and then we can also talk about the municipalities. These two things have nothing in common. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u201	Thank you very much. He's already got a magic word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support this law as one of the signatories myself, not because I would hope that it will be adopted in Parliament today. Obviously, this political will is not accepted by favor, but by the naked principle, because it points to a fact and a problem in local self-government, which needs to be seriously considered, to discuss and make some decisions. If we do not give the city’s municipalities the status they deserve, then these existing congregations will continue to be divided, which we will soon realize is not good for Slovenia. Like working with local communities, when it is not serious and summarized as it is necessary, it generates dissatisfaction and the emergence of new and new congregations, so they will soon come to the conclusion that if they do not, then they should be divided. I come from a municipality of 15 000 people and Tržič is one of those traditional municipalities in Gorenjska, where we all know they are a town, like Kamnik and Škofja Loka and Radovljica and Jesenice. And even in our municipality, there were pressures on the municipality to split into two parts, such as the part that would secede, the new municipality of Kovor-Bistrica, would have over 6,000 inhabitants, all conditions and would have been one of the richest Slovene municipalities. So the question arises what would remain at the second stop. This time we have resisted reflection and temptation and kept the entire congregation, but when the next opportunity comes, we will seriously consider this, because we want to see that funding in Tržič is only slightly different and the criteria are only slightly different, as in Jezerska, or in Osilnica, where the number of people and the needs of the city are slightly different. The basic guide in this story is to look at the city congregation slightly differently and to have slightly better funding. And I think that, if these cities, the old towns for a few centuries of tradition in Slovenia would offer a hand and a slightly better condition that even in the light of regionalisation they would not do any irreparable damage, it would prevent the emergence of any smaller municipality in the next round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u204	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is paradoxical that this proposal comes just at a time when some of us who have been signed here under this law are witnessing different debates in the setting up of new congregations. On a proposal that fully met the conditions laid down in the law. Paradoxically, too, because a respected colleague who was first signed might have to invest much less energy in the adoption of the law if he had been put into the legislative procedure some years ago. Although I don't think so, because Mr Gantar said, among other things, that the law would not only be adopted because it was proposed by the opposition, but mainly because it is bad and it is a fact. No matter where someone sits, the fact is that this law saves nothing. If the criteria in 1994 were when the number of people and the number of political jobs were being set, what are they today that we have here in the law, are they professional or what? And the exceptions that we have in common are also professional and justified. To some extent, I think it is also a matter of not knowing things, because we are not talking about cities in this law, we are talking about city halls, which are two very different concepts. No one takes the right to the status of a city to those places that already enjoy this status, but not all these places of the city congregation, which they cannot be. That's perfectly clear to me. And there are many places in Slovenia that have gained this status very far back and that still enjoy it and there is no one who would take that status away from them. I think that the only point of this law is that some congregations, in this case even some 10 congregations, which would fully evaluate this concept of the municipal congregation, would obtain additional financial resources. I think that's the only point. Now I don't know where the development is, where all the talk is about allowing the establishment of new urban communities to support the development efforts of those who are now limited in this. They're limited now, please. I think this government has done the most to develop, not only these, but all of us in the Republic of Slovenia, when it very quickly increased funds for this purpose. In your own explanation, you state that for 2006, 4 billion dollars. I think that here is the greatest developmental impulse anyone could give to all municipalities, the whole local government in Slovenia for a quick time, without major changes to the laws that must take place, but not because this government would not be able to do so, because fundamental changes take time. Unfortunately, this time, which has been lost in the past 12 years, cannot be compensated in one year. I must say, even in this display of regulation in other legal systems, there was one inaccuracies when you compare this arrangement with German, you speak of the city’s municipalities. This case is not entirely accurate. I don't think they know that. It's a town cut out of the county, and that's a major difference. And if we look at the numbers, this is about 50 to 100,000 people. And another example, France, where you found that France has a model of local self-government, which is one of the better in Europe. It is interesting that 77% of municipalities have fewer than a thousand inhabitants and one of the better in Europe. So, Mrs Pečanova, you will speak when you have your word, and now allow me to say to the end what I have intended. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u205	Please! Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u206	If we go back to law now, I think the point of every law is that it brings certain solutions that allow people to live easier, allowing development and so on, regulating certain matters, as we have witnessed in another law today, where some have also debated that some squares are politically based and not professionally justified. And if we look at these reasons, unfortunately we can't find them in this marriage. There are no substantive reasons to justify amending this law, which would allow certain environments to actually develop faster due to such a change as is now proposed. I think that you are also aware of this and that it was not your intention to make a law that would allow this, but that different solutions would be written down that would allow for an infertile debate. This is a key reason for me not to support such a marriage. If it were better, if it would actually allow the development of these settlements that would acquire this status and not devalue the concept itself, because when these criteria are reduced in some inadequate way, which is not the right way, I also agree with what has been said that other criteria are much more important for this concept than the number of people and the number of jobs. That's why I can't support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u208	All I want to do is correct the statement of a respected colleague of Montenegro who agreed with me, thinking that I said the marriage was bad. Of course I didn't say that. I said that the law is not true, as are the real proponents, and that is why it will not be adopted. So it's a perfectly good law, and therefore, logically, it can't be adopted in this coalition either. That's it. Otherwise, I could say that the systems of local self-government are historically, culturally and territorially specific, and some example, attributable to the French or other system of course does not apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk also has a replica of Mr Cernač's statements.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well, you're partly right, Mr. Blackach - also for money. For the Law on the Financing of the Congregations is a disastrously bad law. I have proposed in all three mandates to change it, but unfortunately it is not successful. Even this year's cosmetic change has not brought about a significant change, so we are also working to improve the budget of the municipality in Idrija, within other options, but here with the status of the municipalities. After the money that our extremely highly economically developed congregation pays into the state treasury, we are there somewhere in 7 places, and after the money that this highly developed economic community of ours has without the unemployed, practically without the unemployed, and we are there somewhere in 180 places, it is said that with the system of local self-government in our country, something is very, very wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mrs Pečanova also has a replica, and then Mrs Pečan has applied earlier, so, about 5 minutes earlier, and then Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u212	I would merely replicate the claims or understanding of the statement in the explanation of the law concerning France. Indeed, there is something more to know about local self-government, Mr Cernač, that you can even produce such connections. The point is that when we talk about the fact that it is after the 1990s, it is remarkablely stated that local self-government in France can be an example for the European Union, because they actively, systematically connect a crowd of small municipalities to the few congregations, because they saw that this is very difficult, but in the so-called Commune, it is said to be a union of congregations where there are 10 and up to 30 municipalities connected and functioning as one municipality. But the fact that there were 70,000 of them is an inheritance from Napoleon’s times, not that Napoleon had done so many, but that it was then, and between these 70,000 municipalities in France there were a whole number of municipalities that were empty, that had no one to live with, let us say, a referendum or a referendum, because there was no one who could go to the referendum. It is said that there is something more to know about local self-government, about what is happening in Europe and what has been happening and what is still going on, that you can claim that this marriage is bad. This is just a law that fixes already and so bad the law on local self-government, so it can be better, it can't be worse at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs Zalokar Orazem also has the replica, and then I give the floor to Secretary of State Rokavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I, too, would like to replicate in a substantive sense with my colleague, because the situation concerning France, I think, has been correctly explained by my colleague, but I would like to point out a situation which is also interesting. The trend in Europe is integration, this is a fact that you can say 10 more times that it is not, but if you want the case that was mentioned where you said we did not get consent in the state world, one of the saints said a concrete case that I later checked. In one of the German countries, in just the last year of the 3,000 municipalities that make up this country, the number of thousands has been reduced, in one year the number of municipalities has decreased and the trend in Europe definitely does not speak to this for the sake of being a proper policy. And in this sense, I think that the ruling coalition, and thus the government, is taking the stories elsewhere. It amends the Law on Local Self-Government and writes on exceptions to 2000 and will eliminate all 18 municipalities from 5 to 2000 except for the unfortunate Ankaran. And here there is no problem in July to change the law, while where there are many voices from various municipalities and many warnings from local officials that it will be a developmental setback, let it be Jesenice, let it be Radovljica - I will talk about my congregation later - I think simply in this case the coalition will find no understanding. And if everything were so nice and true, I think that my colleague from the House of Domžale, Robert Hrvat, would be sitting here today, and I think he'd rather withdraw from this debate, because I think he's always present at the meetings, but today he's not, because he has so few arguments, but he knows that he won't be able to vote because of the army he's built up, just as the soul would say. About the financial argument. We have never hidden it, and we have also written, that some financial consequences will be, but not everywhere. The municipality of Domžale, from which comes the proposer, who thinks he also deserves the status of the city congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u215	Let me just warn you that the replica must not last more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u216	Just to be clear, Mr Pavliha, she has never received a toll of financial compensation in all history. We are self-financing and will be self-financing in the future, so at least in our case I think that even in the case of Piran and some other municipalities, there is no financial [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u217	The time for replica is up, I have to warn you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u218	is not the financial aspect of those proposals. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Let me explain once again that even if it goes together, the replica is limited to three minutes. But there will be plenty of time to discuss later when we share the rest of our time. Yes, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, President! Good-bye! For a little while. I could not agree with that claim that there is something very wrong with the system of local self-government. The system of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia is good. This has shown the development of the last 11 years, the development of Slovenian municipalities as a whole. We have not recorded such developments in the Republic of Slovenia at local level in any of its history. I can say that for sure. And next. The so-called rehabilitation, the financial rehabilitation of municipalities, was provided with a rebalancing of the 2005 budget for all municipalities and then continued in 2006 and continues in 2007. To all congregations, regardless of size. And here to say that any difference is made is completely unfounded and without any basis. The second question is the blurring of two concepts. The status of the city and the status of the city municipality. In Slovenia we have 51 cities, which have their status under the law on local self-government. 16 such potential candidates will be confirmed by the government at this year's meeting or at the beginning of next year on the basis of a new law on local self-government. Why is this proposal, which has come at this time, linked to regionalisation? Yes, because everyone, both in this hall and in the country, is saying that the spirit of regionalisation has escaped from the bottle. And at this point, he may have stopped at those 14 provinces. Yes, do you think that the proposal for the new 20 urban municipalities will also lead to potential ambitions for creating new landscape proposals? I'm sure, given the concept it's set at the moment. And I think the most important question right now is how to get to the second stage of local self-government. If we really want to introduce the provinces, then we must first focus all our energy on this level and not allow any possibility of further obstructing this process. As if Slovenia does not achieve this in this mandate, it is likely that this will be bad for the Republic of Slovenia in the long term. At the same time, this issue can also be addressed, not before the process of establishing the provinces; this has already been said several times today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u221	Thank you very much. We have two replicas again, Mr Bevk, and then Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There is no need, Mr Secretary of State, to praise something uncritical, even if you are responsible for the area of local self-government. Go in this direction to improve the local self-government system in our country, because if you asked Slovenian mayors, you would rarely get anyone to be dissatisfied with the status and general with the municipalities and with the operation and opportunities that this area allows. See, if we take only the fact that only 20 Slovenian municipalities are self-financing, that is already enough to say. And don't tell me that 180 other Slovenian municipalities that urgently need state money to be able to implement policies at local level, that this is okay. The 20 municipalities that are self-financing in this country are an absolutely small number. And I think we can also say from this point of view that local self-government is not just an area that is really modelly arranged, as you say. And I don't think we need to thank you uncritically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u225	I'm sorry you don't have time and the replica goes together. After interpreting the rules of procedure, I can't grant you a replica. By continuing the discussion and inviting Dr Slavinac to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u226	Thank you very much for the words, after so many replicas; I hope I will not challenge them again. In my thinking, I would refer to the former, whether the city congregation means the city or not or what the city congregation means. I imagine that the city municipality is a regional centre because I was warned that the municipal municipality of Murska Sobota, from which I come, also does not meet a certain condition for the municipal municipality. This certainly does not mean that this may be the only, only, criterion and only explanation, but it certainly is this explanation that if anyone wanted to think about it and asked the question whether the Murski Sobota belonged to the status of the city congregation, it would certainly be at least very strange, if not something else. Why, then, are the congregations competing for the name of the city congregation? We have heard that these are additional benefits, especially in the form of money, but I can say from my own experience that these benefits are, at least in such a case, when the surroundings of such a congregation expect something more, significantly more to do with additional obligations. And these additional obligations must certainly be ensured by the city’s congregation, and those who are aware of this, and those who are able to do so, I stress, those who are able to do so are probably not only deserving of the name and status of the city congregation, but they can also be useful. I also realize that probably the law doesn't come from the right side. For this reason, I would like, if not the other, to encourage activities in the area of regional exposure, to highlight this higher organizational level, which will then also remove this dilemma and will be able to become cities. Those who have always been such, regional centres, will then be the centers of these provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. You have a word on the list. No, no, no. We skip all the time because no one listens to the recommendation to log out from the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u228	We're in a sports mood. I would only like to say very briefly, because I have almost no more time left anyway, that when we talk about local self-government in Slovenia, we are constantly forgetting that we are actually talking about two million people living in 193 municipalities. Not to mention how this national assembly, by chance for one second, will make up another congregation more or less, one congregation will be granted the status of the city congregation, and the other congregation will not, then let us say that when we hear that we are mixing, we are mixing, those who have signed this law. You know, you won't be teaching us and explaining whether we know or don't know the difference between the status of the city and the status of the city congregation. The difference is extremely small, because both means one thing and another, but surely the city’s status means significantly less than the city’s status, so that we are in the clear. And for this reason, I would like to ask you to be so kind, but understand that, however, about the municipalities, about local self-government, about the establishment and non-establishment of the provinces where the same party has always had the greatest credit for not being a province. [[...]] [[Warning signal.]] You know, so we're clear. [[...]] When it comes to elections, the main topic is the establishment of the provinces, when the elections are over.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u229	You're running out of time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u230	Yeah, I noticed, I have 15 seconds, so let's just forget it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Let me point out that the red numbers are the extremes, the extreme finals, when it is expected from Members and Members to really conclude the debate. We have another debate, and then the government and the proponent. I give the floor to Mrs. Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u232	Thank you very much, and I am happy to have it, because now I am really going to discuss it mainly as Mayor of Domjala and at the same time as the Member of Parliament from this end. So far, I have been primarily a proponent and representative of the LDS' views. Of course, it seems to me that the Domžalje are a case in which all the absurdity of the existing law and rules can be established. That's all there is to know. They have more than 30,000 inhabitants and more than 11,000 jobs, but they do not fulfil their status. We also have a higher education center, a college center, etc. Last but not least, if I am joking about whether this assembly, by its vote or by its legislative body, will grant the status of the city congregation to the Domžale or not, it is not really important to us in Domžal. All these years we've been self-financing, self-sufficient, we've taken nothing from anyone, but we've given up something before, and we've been feeling like citizens all these years, and that we have the status of the city council, no matter what someone gave us or didn't. Because I think it is particularly important how a place breathes, whose functions function, how it works in the wider space and in this wider space, I am convinced that the Domžalje are conscious if you ask most Slovenian people, they would probably say that we are a city municipality, regardless of what the national assembly thinks and how it will vote. Last but not least, we have been facilitating Slovenian football in the central Slovenian region. Without us, it would probably be very critical here and we played with Stuttgart without problems, even though we are not a city congregation, so little for a joke. But the whole story isn't funny. Anti-urban policy is something that I am already at the beginning of the river, and this country will be strongly avenged. And unfortunately, you can see it in the long run. This is not seen in a year or two, but anti-urban, unfriendly politics, but I am talking about cities or urban municipalities, it is visible for a longer period of time, and here I feel that Slovenia is not really against it. And as the first-signed proponent of this law, depending on where I belong, I knew there was little hope. I wanted to point that out in the first place. I warn and hope that someone who has the ability to make decisions will also move a wheel in the brain to consider whether it is the right way or not. My judgment is that, no matter what will be voted on today, we should carry out this thought in this area, because it has warned about development problems - but here I think it is important, and here I have a lot of experience - about the development problems and convulsions in these environments, which we hold back in some way and, on the other hand, look at only the example of the three urban communities, I mentioned three earlier, obviously with the continued establishment of these new municipalities, even those 11 we have, we will be able to break down. We're breaking up Nova Gorica City Hall by cutting someone off, in my opinion, strictly financial, speculative purposes. We've been flying the Copra, and we're going to New Town. This is today, tomorrow will be next. However, this 11 will not be able to continue any longer, although we have seen statistics before that many of them do not actually meet these existing criteria, so I still agree that the existing situation is illegal and I repeat it again and even underline it. More than this law of ours, it is an illegal state that governs and that points to one perfect anarchy and chaos in this area. And of course, I wanted to open another thought, or we wanted to open it. No one attacks and please, no one thinks or contradicts the stories of the regions, or landscapes and city halls. These are pears and apples. No one attacks or thinks that the municipality of Kranj or Kranj will not be the center of the Gorenj region to come, but there is something else to think about. Or within this region Škofja Loka, Tržič, Jesenice and Radovljica do not have and will not get any other status, as I will say, some regional centres, as I mentioned earlier, another rank. These are the centers. Autumns have a theatre, Radovljica is at museum activity, thinking at some points perhaps going beyond the regional center. And if we are to do so, we will have to give such cities or municipalities in our system of local self-government a certain function, competence, importance and role. This is what we wanted, and this is what we wanted to point out by this law. For the way you go in the coalition does not lead in this direction and is unkind to these environments. This can be confirmed by a number of examples, as well as explanations, of those who have submitted applications to Parliament for city halls. Once again, I ask how we are going to carry out this procedure, because in law we have also resolved the dilemma that we do not have this in law at this time, by which procedure we can proceed, but perhaps within one year we will also meet these criteria of employment in Domžal. Maybe the zone is running very fast, if I know it, we'll have about 4 to 5,000 new jobs in the zone. What are you gonna say then? When all the criteria are met, how will they be arbitrated and in what way will they be arbitrated. Here I think the matter is unthinkable, and in this respect I also challenge the Secretary of State. I think that the fact that all the congregations and, above all, the smaller congregations have developed very intensively, despite all the words of the past years, was more similar than some real and correct policies in the field of local self-government. But the fact is, as far as we are concerned, and I still hope to say that the larger congregations have gone backwards. This is also discussed by a study of European experts who have reviewed our local government and who point out this. But you don't want to hear it. You don't want to see it. You don't want to see it. They talk about the decline and developmental untapped opportunities of the wider local communities or these communities. How do we need these congregations, dear colleagues, because who will be preparing the various programs? For Europe, there must be programs in which there is not one congregation but three or more! These programs and the hosts of these programs are these larger congregations, which we do not want to give them a suitable place under the sun, and we will need them in any way. Because those municipalities with 2,000 people will not be able to prepare 70 centimeters up to one metre of project documentation and other things to have. And here we will be unsuccessful, and without these congregations there will be no drawing on these funds. I already said once that if small municipalities were the only driver of development, then Prekmurje should be the most developed Slovenian region. Eleven years is the most fragmented Slovenian region, but unfortunately in this sense nothing happened to small municipalities. There's no logic or we don't know - yes, that's right, Mr. Janc! Let's take a look at the map of Slovenia, see Prekmurje! It's most fragmented, it's been broken down for ten years, and it's not only developmental, not catching up, we say, we find, you talk, it goes backwards! Something's not right here. Something's not going on here. And in this sense, I do expect the reflection of those who think about it. Development without such congregations, however, would not have been so many proposals in the national assembly, nor would the status of the city’s municipalities. I think this thought will be necessary, whether you want it or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u233	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the debate. On my behalf, good evening to you all! Thank you, Vice President Pavlich, for taking the lead so far. With the arrival of Ambassador Kvetke Zalokar Orazem, we have concluded the discussions of the applicants. I give my word to the government. I think you have a minute and a half at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, again. In this minute and a half, as far as I can see, I would just like to emphasise that, as far as the government is concerned, we want a systemic solution. I'm a personal advocate of a system-wide solution. That is why, of course, we also link the solution to the problem of urban municipalities, together with the entire package of legislation in the area of the establishment of landscapes and also the systemic resolution of municipal funding. I am aware that there are certain problems here, not least I have experience in this area alone. As regards some of the statements that have now been made in the last debate, I would say that only by granting the status of the municipalities will we in no way solve or be able to solve the problems of preparing joint projects for the next financial perspective in the area of cohesion policy, because there is a need for wider connections. These links are also now possible and, last but not least, are being implemented in accordance with the adopted law on coherent regional development. However, this process will be significantly easier if we establish the provinces, which is a fact. Perhaps just as far as these developments and the underdevelopment of individual areas are concerned, of course. This is simply because the system of coherent regional development simply did not run and the system of financing regional development and also municipalities through the Community funding system was highly centralised, and also because of this Prekmurje, regardless of its growth, it is becoming increasingly lagging behind or behind other statistical regions, it is not the only case.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u235	Thank you. I finally give the floor to the representative of the proposer. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I hope that with the proposed amendments to the Local Self-Government Act, however, we have caused the development of urban centres to change the paradigm that we have, how to regulate and regulate, to regulate in Slovenia the development of both segments in a balanced manner. I think this is the call of many congregations, which are not the city’s congregations at this time, but they are very important. I think that they are bringing together the largest number of Slovenian people, that this call is, however, such that it is necessary to listen to it, whether this change is adopted today or not. I think that there are such important developments that something needs to be done here. I agree that the status itself does not bring many, of course, I will say, some concrete movements, although some will also have financial benefits and again I stress, these financial benefits also deserve. For if you only want the information, Domžale Library is a regional library, and the number of members coming from Domžale Municipality is 7,000, the number of members coming from other nearby municipalities not co-financed by these libraries is only 4 thousand 200. In short, almost a third or substantially more than a third of this is coming. It's also a cultural home that works. If, in any case, any of these municipalities were to seek arguments for this, I am convinced that they are sufficient to have enough of these central functions they perform, and therefore there would be no injustice if even some tolar were to receive more. Once again, I do not speak in the interest of my congregation, because our congregation is self-financing, it has always been self-financing, and I hope it will be a long time, because if we are self-financing, then we know that development is going in the right direction. I hope that, however, we will consider the right criteria, because the existing criteria are absurd, and at least I would expect the government to recognise that such criteria, as they are now written, are not appropriate, but it is even less appropriate that the existing municipal municipalities in the law remain without articles on their tasks, competences, that this has also been deleted, and today you have not explained why all of this has been deleted, that, in fact, these existing municipal municipalities are already hanging in the air and actually are already operating in some way, I don't know, in some imaginary space. The second is how you will resolve the roles that are in Parliament for the municipalities and for which there is also no prepared and orderly procedure, how you will actually get these roles off the agenda. Last but not least, I have pointed out on the committee that it is not necessary to discuss this now, because the status of the city municipality can be granted at any time, regardless of the elections, of the local elections, and it is not necessary to hunt these deadlines, but it will have to be removed from the agenda. And there is no procedure, there is no procedure in which way we will regulate this matter, regardless of the fact that none of these criteria, of course, do not make sense at all. There is a serious dilemma as to the constitutional and legal basis for the existence of these congregations, which do not meet the existing criteria, and at the same time do not have powers and duties. However, there may be someone who knows how to challenge it in the right way, and you may regret rejecting it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u237	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take advantage of the opportunity given to me by Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure and allocate extra time. As you know, we have 52 minutes left or as you can see. I ask which of the Members and Members present wants to discuss this bill. Please raise your hand. I ask that those of you who have applied raise your hand once again so that no one will be released. Dear Members and Members, I will read those who have recorded you: colleague Barovic, Štebe, Ambassador Zalokar, Ambassador Pečanov, Mikolić, Černač, Ziherl and Member Gunter and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm still a colleague of the Sok. Did I let anyone go? No, no, no. So I give each of the future discussers five minutes. We will begin with Ambassador Barovic. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u238	Thank you, President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I'd like to clarify a few things. I think our discussion of the bill was very reasoned, patient and calm. I want to clarify some of the ambiguities that are actually the result of the desire for, in my opinion, rematchism. First of all, I am offended that some of us were strangers and confused about the concept of the city and the city congregation. If you were thinking of anyone else, fine, but I'm not letting you say anything like that about me. I am sure that many of you do not know at this time that the government has proposed a number of municipalities to receive the name of the city, and I welcome this proposal. And I know the difference between a city and a city congregation, so don't teach me to get confused about these concepts. Another time. Gentlemen, who are taking you through rematchism, any comparison between today's bill and the events of the previous week on the local self-government committee and in this national council on the appointment of referendum areas is merely a coincidence. If you don't know, if you want to compare, then compare July 2005 to today. July 2005 was a day like today. At that time, we decided in the National Assembly to change the terms of the law. However, we formed new congregations and referendum areas six months later or last week. So don't talk today about wanting, wanting, voting, and I don't know what's going on in the town halls of Trbovlje, Domžale, Kamnik! No! No! Today we only change the terms of the law in two articles. We will talk about the city’s congregations if this change is adopted, perhaps in six months or not. So let us be concrete and clear and not confuse and deceive the public! We're only talking about amending the law, not the city councils, not the Domžals, not the Rippers. With all due respect to the Minister, Mr Minister has openly acknowledged at one of the round tables, which has also been public in the media, that increasing the number of municipalities means weakening the power of municipalities and increasing the power of the state. This is a very important sentence and a real sentence. And, of course, I cannot agree to his claim today that the desire to form urban municipalities means centralistic policy. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and belief, this is not a centralist policy, but rather a counterweight. Most importantly, at first, one of the respected colleagues said that we were exploiting the illegal situation of the existing municipalities because we wanted new ones. That's not true! Just the opposite. With the proposal to amend the law, we want to legalise, fully legalise the status of eleven existing municipalities and, if possible, continue to create new ones if they meet the conditions provided that the law is adopted. I still do not understand, and I will be very happy to hear from the government, and I would like to hear very specifically why the establishment of urban congregations or the amendment of this law is destroying or destroying the provinces. I'm sorry, but in this case I'm obviously stupid. But as far as I know - it has been said that the establishment of city halls threatens the formation of landscapes, so to speak. I'd like to know that very, very much. And thanks again for listening to me. Let us be honest and honest with one another. And not for the last time. I agree, once again, here with the minister. Systematic local arrangements should be built from the top down. Just, sorry, if we started somewhere from below, so we set up some new congregations, but suddenly we want to go from top to bottom, it's like building houses on the left side first of the roof and on the bottom of the foundation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u239	Thank you, Comrade Barovich. I give my word to Ambassador Tomaž Stebeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have responded more to the debate of those who advocate more city halls. I think that somehow we misunderstand the urban significance of cities and the associated municipalities. My friend Gantar said something nice about this. And we don't really have the right places in Slovenia. I'm not going to say big, because as a country, we have a relatively limited chance of that happening. But we don't have the right places. And this long advertising contribution by the Mayor of Domžal only means that the ambitions of Domžal and the relative comparative success are based mainly on the weaknesses of Ljubljana, which simply cannot be used from its backlog and cannot even use all the resources it has at its disposal. The stadium before the war, football, sports hall is over 30 years old. And in the end, they lose the football club. It is normal that anyone who is a little more ambitious and more public funding can then become relatively successful. But Slovenia actually needs successful cities and real cities. And I think that the only such city is Ljubljana, which meets such conditions. Because the city of Ljubljana, the municipality of Ljubljana does not actually have a significant number of settlements, which are not urban settlements, but there are only a few peripheral villages around Ljubljana, and then there are municipalities. If I hadn't spent too much time announcing this proposal, it would have happened that at the move from Ljubljana to the Rocky Mountains, we would have three city halls closely connected. Where will we join the other congregations? The choice for us from Mengš will be great: Ljubljana, Domžalam or Kamnik. Because on the other side, towards Kranj, we are simply too far, even though we are part of Gorenjska. Once again, I propose that the government seriously consider, and above all, the proposer and a little self-critical also, that urbanism is the right place, such as the core of the city council. Some municipalities that are proposed do not, in fact, have neither the historical basis nor the urban basis for having an important concentration, important large public institutions, in order to be able to say that they are a place in this substantive sense and that on this basis they can advocate the importance of being a city municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u241	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u242	I would only say very briefly, no matter how long I have, that from the beginning it was clear to me that it was a battle that was lost in advance. Because no matter who is currently in power, there is always a problem that, although it may not feel it, but there is a severe competition between the state and local authorities; let it be the last, the most northeast part of Slovenia with a crowd of small municipalities or the city municipality, which can be very strong, because of the smallness of Slovenia, because everyone actually knows, fears or fears those who are influential. Because we say, because you know what, "I prefer a blacksmith in a village than a blacksmith in a city" because it is very true, it is said that I am the mayor of the municipality of Izola rather than the Prime Minister. Why? Because of the great question of whether I am moving things more easily and improving the lives of my fellow citizens, I will not tell the people, because at least I personally have no ambition for Izola to be a city municipality, it is easier for me to improve the situation for my fellow citizens as a mayor or perhaps the Prime Minister - and I am not talking about Mr Janez Janša, I am talking about any Prime Minister - whether he can or he has more tools, more opportunities to improve the situation for the inhabitants, all 2 million people, our country. It's basically jealousy, some constant struggle between the big ones and the small ones, not the small ones against the big ones, because we don't have a chance at fighting the big ones anyway. And because of this quiet jealousy there is no will in any of the governments to allow those municipalities that somehow meet the conditions for meeting the concept of the city municipality to say, "There is no real place in Slovenia." Yes, please, then Berlin, which has 2 million inhabitants, is not a city, you know why not, because it's too green because there's too much water all around Berlin, the lakes themselves, the streams themselves, the rivers themselves! It was not until now that the capital of the Federal Republic of Germany was reestablished in Berlin. Berlin is not a big city, Berlin is a town because it has small houses, because it has five-story "bay" instead of having twenty-five floors, please. If this is a criterion for what a city is, then we have very different concepts. And I think that, no matter how important the difference between the ordinary congregation and the city congregation is, however, it is the confidence of citizens in the city congregation. Why not give them the opportunity to become a city congregation? We are also reasonable enough to be sure that none of those who are citizens or who will be citizens of the city congregation, that the vast majority of them well know that the center of the province will certainly not, but the status of the city congregation will have and will retain it later. Do as you wish, I think that this law is good, that it is a pity that you will not confirm it, or that you will probably propose something in a very similar form later in the framework of the law on local self-government or the law on municipalities - a similar or identical text. Then I'll remind you of what I said today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u243	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u244	Thank you. Well, I think we're really not just talking about new conditions or laws today, we're definitely talking about new city halls, if the law were passed, I don't know why these new city halls wouldn't be created. This certainly has something to do with what we discussed last week when we discussed the new congregations. And then the first question or the first big comment was, among other things, a billion additional resources needed. I mentioned earlier that, in fact, I would not "defend" the additional necessary financial resources for the new municipalities if they were also transferred by the State to this municipality, which would in fact be eligible for these funds in this case. And even those who are now, I don't think, excused. Here to boast about how rich we are or some of you are, let me stress once again that these proposals made by 16 municipalities - they are not rich congregations, because they all receive financial compensation, except for the congregation of Piran. Dear colleague, I don't know, I'm telling myself again what I said before - for 2006, calculations are like that. And if you succeed at the end of 2006 - I have nothing against the Domžale municipality - but we have the right spending, the calculations for 2006, but it is clear that we should receive 28 million financial compensations. This is the data for 2006. Another comment about the explanation that has been heard many times, however, is that almost all of these are painful when it comes to the unhappy Prekmurje or the crushing of the congregations or the number of congregations in Prekmurje. If there were arguments for faster development of the small congregation, then Prekmurje would not be in such a state as it is today. Again, I can repeat what I said the last time, as the minister mentioned before, because the law on coherent regional development was not implemented. And I'm not going to say the wrong thing again, as I did last time, but now I'm going to say, "Dear LDS, you were responsible for this at the time, and this wasn't happening." Unfortunately, that is the situation today. I do not believe that it would be better, given the policy of implementing the law on coherent regional development, if the entire Prekmurje were just one municipality.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u245	Thank you. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I came by mainly because I do not know why the previous chairman has allowed four replicas of my implementation. I think that only one was justified, by a respected colleague of Paul Gantar, for whom I thank him for having responded. He really didn't say that this marriage is bad, but that this marriage isn't real, and I'm totally sticking it to him. That's how I feel about this marriage. I think that if we want to admit it or not, cities, municipalities, up or down in these debates, which have been repeated even now in recent moments, these concepts have been intertwined, and it is likely that this overlap would be significantly less if we had this second level in the past years, somewhere from 1994 onwards, and today it would have been carried out as it would have been right to have been carried out. It is said that we would have regional or provincial distribution, I think that everyone in this Chamber would then be completely satisfied with the concept of a city with special status as defined, I do not know, for example, German legislation. By the way, it was said that I did not know French law or that I misinterpreted it. In my modesty, I have only read what you, honourable proponents, wrote in your explanation. And it says here, "France has 26 regions, 100 departments and 36 thousand 763 municipalities, more than 77% of which have fewer than a thousand inhabitants." That's what it says in this explanation, and I've read it. And that's true. However, what was said to be more than 70,000 of these congregations is not true, if the information you gave is accurate. But it says here something else, special forms of municipalities, as we know them in Slovenia, do not have. This is what it says in this explanation, so I think that this debate is to some extent also very unproductive. I think that energy should focus on two other issues, this second level, so to speak, to bring integration into Slovenia at the provincial level, which is indeed essential for future development, and of course an appropriate change, a systematic change in legislation that will allow for a different way of funding the municipalities. I think that this government has already done something on this path, but without systemic changes, I do not think we can hope for the faster development of the whole country, the whole Republic of Slovenia, which is the direction of this government - and I hope that this national assembly too - and what I think we will all be happy to support when we receive this law. I have been stabbed by the claim, repeatedly reiterated that this government is an anti-urban policy. None of those who discussed this argument based on any statement on any of the arguments. I don't know what this anti-urban policy is. Is it possible that anti-urban policy in that those who wanted to establish a congregation and who met the legal conditions were allowed to do so if the people at the referendums decided to do so? I don't think so. I think that Slovenia's future is in this coordinated development and I think that the government's policy is so far away from being anti-urban. In my opinion, it is quite balanced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u247	Thank you. Member Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I feel a little uncomfortable myself because I come from Škofje Loka, and as we know, Škofja Lok as a city congregation failed with her role. However, I feel uncomfortable because Škofja Loka is very successful in some areas, blue in the cultural field, we are also preparing resounding events, the school system is hosting a high school for management from Kopra, the dislocated departments of the Faculty of Engineering are preparing, but some criteria are not met. And that's what I'd like to talk about, the number of jobs. And when we made a decision on the municipal council to make a proposal for a city congregation, we also had pure wine or real expectations. We were all in favour of running to invest, but we were aware of our weak points. And we said if we don't make it now, maybe some other time. However, the unfulfilled criteria may be the obligation for present and subsequent councils to prepare or correct our weak points. In particular, I would touch one, that is, we do not meet the required number of jobs, which is also critically reflected in the wider area of the entire administrative unit. Three companies have left the wider area in the last year, looking for other areas or operating elsewhere. One or two companies now have half-packed suitcases. If we want to become a city congregation, then we need to work on what we decided a little too late, but I think we still have until the time, a part-industry-turn zone, where this lack of flight will be eliminated and maybe sometime in the next period, when we meet more or all of the conditions, we can really run for the city council. So let this poor result, for the time being, not the cause of mourning, but the incentive to do what is still needed in the future. Conditions are conditions. We know that running at 100 meters is exactly 100 meters long and no less and no less, for election rights it is necessary to be 18 years old and so on. You have to have this and that for the city hall. And if you don't, then you have to work on meeting the conditions and achieving what you've set yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u249	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Paulette Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The debate on this law is actually the principles of more things than the law itself has opened. Of course, the law opened only the possibility of easier access to the status of the city’s congregation. It is also true that the debate has opened more than the law itself, and it is right that we also have a debate in this national assembly on cities. Although this debate is in some way unannounced, we have not prepared ourselves for it, but it is possible that this is an opportunity for all of us on committees or elsewhere to address the problems of urban areas as well, and that we are aware that it is right to solve problems in these areas that depend on much more rapid development in Slovenia. I've been mentioned many times myself, including what I know we don't have the right places. It's not that we have the right and the wrong places. You can't even talk about that. It is that in the hierarchy or pyramids of some cities in Slovenia there are no medium-sized cities and that is our problem. And in part, I repeat, this problem of principles would also be this novelty of this law. We wouldn't have gone far from this, but I would have put it in some of the principles and made it a problem. In fact, we can talk about this or that, we are talking about that Ljubljana, in some way today, is no longer a real place for all those who are traditional, "fuzbal" fans, because it no longer has a real club. However, I would say that Ljubljana is a specific place. Ljubljana is a city with about 250,000 inhabitants, depending on how you count, but has five professional theatres. American cities don't even have a professional theater, we only have five. Professional theatres come to 670,000 people in U.S. urban systems. Ljubljana does not have a modern hall, I agree that this is bad, and I think that the city authority is responsible for this, but it has people who attract it, in fact, because a lecture by a philosopher, a famous Slovenian philosopher, attracts more people than people to a sporting event when we talk about it. I'm proud of this place, even though it doesn't have a football, and I hope it does. If we are aware of the importance of urban culture in large and medium-sized cities for development, we will also know that development is not only a means, but, of course, innovation, ideas, etc. So I would say, because it has been said that you do not know where this anti-urban policy is, I would like to make it very clear. The anti-urban policy for me is to lower the criteria for determining municipalities, i.e. municipalities, to 2,000 people, to accelerate fragmentation. Anti-urban policy is the collapse of the coastal town of Koper, which plays a very important role in the urban system of Slovenia due to other matters. Anti-urban policy is the establishment of a new congregation of Izlaka within the municipality of Zagorje, etc. These are insurmountable signs of anti-urban policy for me, anti-urban policy is a regulation on two cohesion regions, it is unnecessary in terms of what has been achieved and when the agreement has been reached. These are the elements of the anti-urban policy that is at work for me, and I fear that it will be even more pronounced in the coming time. I therefore welcome and think that in this state we must also discuss urban issues and Slovenian cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u251	Thank you for your discussion. I give my word to Ambassador Aloys Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. I would like to say once again that despite the fiery speeches that the proposer has made, we will not support this law in the New Slovenia Group of Members, we think it is poorly prepared, so that two articles are written quickly to change the conditions. In your own explanation, you wrote the following: "The existing law shows inequalities between the conditions met by the existing municipal municipalities and those which should be satisfied with the potential new municipal municipalities for such status. In order to address this inequality, we propose to reduce the criteria for the number of people and the number of jobs." Thus, as with other congregations, you have anchored or set up a situation in this area that did not follow what is stated in the law. And then you expose Slovenj Gradec as a typical example of a city congregation that does not meet these criteria. Now, based on this idea, it is necessary to lower the criteria and establish a larger number of municipalities, but we all know that the city, as such, must actually meet some criteria if it is to perform a broader function for the wider back. If he does not do so, then he cannot be a city congregation. In fact, it is only a desire to make more money as a city congregation. You have also admitted and defended these positions in your debate, Madam Applicant, when you see how they are self-sufficient, how they finance themselves, how you are actually guilty of not being granted the status of the city municipality. I don't know what people can think about this, say, Bohinja, when they hear that you have a right to be violated, but if I return to this debate on Thursday last week, when you were so strict against small rural municipalities. You actually voted against everyone. What, then, can the people of these communities who have not been given this opportunity think of these performances? So, I actually see someone in this performance, I could call it duplicity. So when it comes to me, then yes, when it comes to someone else, then no, and then here you say you're in three positions, once as a candidate, once as an MP, and once again as a mayor. Of course, some do not have the opportunity to perform any function, but only from far away can they observe that they will also be given what should actually be given them. And then, by all means, you say that you know the systems in France, in Germany, everywhere, how this is arranged, and only Slovenia should be subject to some other patterns of solutions, thinking and regulation. This is unacceptable for all those who want to be Democrats. I come from Ormož. The armory was granted city rights in 1331, and I do not think that it should be a city congregation. If so, then it must be liberated from the large countryside that he carries with him, for at the end of the day there are fewer than 3,000 inhabitants in the city, while the rest of the 15 thousand live on these hills around the city and seek work where they know and must. So if the city wants to be a city, then it has to offer a position for this surrounding population, a certain activity, in fact, must represent the city as a city we know. If all of this cannot be offered, we cannot discuss becoming a city congregation. And if we look at it, really in Slovenia, because of this urban design that we have, there are few cities that meet these criteria. In fact, it is not about changing the law now, but about meeting those criteria required by law, and then the city’s congregations will be able to become. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u253	Thank you. I invite Minister Zhagar to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. Dear Members. I would like to point out once again in this final work, above all, that the government and I, personally, as Minister, are interested in the integrity of the solutions. And that's why the view of marriage is the way it is. We could actually look at the Constitution here. In fact, the Constitution provides for two types of municipalities, towns and other municipalities, but in all these ten years since the Constitution, nothing has happened in the transfer of jurisdiction to the city’s municipalities, which is probably the purpose of the Constitution. And even this law, which is proposed today, brings nothing from this point of view, at least I personally do not see what further this law could bring in itself. And I think it is extremely important that, at the moment that the debate on the provinces is also open in this National Assembly, these problems, which I agree, are an integral part of all of these stories, are being addressed comprehensively in the context of resolution and I hope, at least the establishment of the landscapes, because in this sense we will take a step forward. Now it is only possible that some of the statements that have been made today regarding the law on the establishment of congregations are possible. This has exacerbated the conditions, this is the fact that the previous version needs to be read and this is the current version, and some Members will also make it very clear to me whether they already knew. With regard to the establishment of two cohesion regions, I really do not know what two cohesion regions are contributing to non-urbanism; on the contrary, I am convinced that two cohesion regions, from an internal point of view, are certainly contributing to coherent regional development, and that time will also show 100%. And maybe just one more thing about the performance of the congregations. We have very different congregations of great size, and nothing confirms this, there is no rule that speaks of such or different congregations being successful or unsuccessful. We have an extremely successful small congregation, but we also have, I think, a rather unsuccessful rather large congregation, and that is not at all dependent on it. And once again, as far as the bill itself is concerned - and here I also appeal to all the other developments that will follow the adoption of legislation in the area of the establishment of the provinces - that I really expect then not only to discuss and support in principle in this direction, but that we will indeed carry out the process of establishing the provinces, so that we will actually implement the process of decentralisation of the country and, through this, also solve these problems, which are related to individual urban areas in terms of cities or urban municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u255	Thank you, Minister. Unfortunately, I have learned that you have been listened to by eight Members. I ask all other Members and Members to listen to the next debates, this is the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem. Message from the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I am pleased to be able to speak now at the end of some really interesting additional discussions. And of course, the question that has arisen several times today is where the evidence for anti-urban or anti-urban policy in Slovenia is. The best evidence, I think, was heard by all those who today listened to the debates of those who opposed the changes of this law. These discussions were the most true proof of anti-urban policy in this Parliament and in the ruling coalition. And it is very difficult to hear that some or someone who has actually slept through most of the discussion is now assessing the law as bad. And this law is no worse than the founding law, I will say, small congregations, because the change in the law on the establishment of the congregations was also in one article, instead of 5,000 you wrote that it was enough for the exception of 2,000.And if that law was bad, then, of course, this law is also bad in that sense, I admit it and I am not even ashamed of it. Another proof of anti-urban policy, which I can very much say here today. The vast majority of those congregations who want to become urban congregations began their period, such as in 1994, 1995 and 1996 as self - financed congregations. The congregation of Domžale was also a self - financed congregation in all 11 years. More. In that former South, the budget of the municipality of Domžale was higher than that of the Republic of Montenegro. Where did the anti-urban policy of the Domžale municipality lead? I am very pleased that in 2006 we will receive 28 million financial compensation, only proof that this policy is certainly anti-urban. But we've been self-financing for 11 years without a problem. Obviously something is wrong and, of course, this argument is such that it only speaks for what I have said many times today. And once again, I stress for those who may have slept through the debate. In the beginning, very plastic colleague Barovič with numbers said, except for the two existing municipalities of Ljubljana and Maribor, those who are and have the status of municipal municipalities do not meet the criteria for the number of jobs. This criterion is not the right criteria and because you said that the criteria must be met when Mr Loka in Škofja says so, because he would not support this law, because this criterion is poor, we proposed that it be deleted. Last but not least that we will establish a legal situation for those who, at the moment, are municipal municipalities, first of all, because they do not already meet these, I will say - I have already said before, impossible, inappropriate, mystical criteria, which in fact only impede the fact that someone else can reach such a status. And, of course, in this sense, I would like to say, given that even a municipality like Domžale becomes a municipality that is no longer self-financed, that this is more proof that in Slovenia it is really better to be the place of Sveti Tomaž than the Domžale, because then you are really better placed in the future than you are a municipality called Domžale. And, of course, also to Mr Štebet, I hope that he is aware that he has been elected by a strong majority of the votes in Domžal, I do not think that his constituents will be pleased with the arguments he has made today against the fact that the status of the municipal congregation in the Domžalje municipality could be reached and that his promises at that time were significantly different from that of the fact that he will give support or no such opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u257	Thank you. This concludes the list of applicants, including those who subsequently applied. This concludes the debate. We will vote on the draft decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure below, which is in line with the meeting's time frame, today within the framework of the vote point, that is, in half an hour or so, 20 and 30 minutes. Until then, I'm breaking this agenda. I also interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue, as we say, at 8:30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Welcome to the evening of our meeting. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask all Members and Members to check their voting devices in a consistent manner. However, we continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on trade following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Member of Parliament, Ferry Horvat, to Article 1. Anybody want to explain their voice? Comrade Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u259	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will be very brief because I originally presented the amendment, but given that the two opinions opposed this amendment, I would like to respond to objections that do not. One objection was that the third indent, which listed shops without restrictions at airports, border crossings, camps, marinas, health resorts, should give rise to a constitutional dispute. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Given that all amendments formally represent a certain, minor or greater departure from the referendum response, if taken literally with a dot and a comma, this risk is present in each solution. I believe, however, that this amendment is still at the very least controversial for a number of those who could trigger constitutional disputes. In fact, this third indent - airport trade and the like - has never been disputed in the referendum debates in order to include them in the restrictions. And sales centers, including trade unions as facilitators of the referendum, say that this does not mean a departure from the intention or purpose of the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u260	Thank you. Before we proceed to the vote, allow me to remind you that, if the amendment is adopted, the remaining amendments remain irrelevant. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 39. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 1. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 25. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This reminds you that the amendments under order 3 and 4 have become irrelevant. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 by the motions of the three groups of Members. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article. Comrade Pike, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u261	We intend to table an amendment to this article, all the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u262	Thank you. Then I propose that we decide by the third hearing and by deciding on the amendment tomorrow as part of the vote. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda in part. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on communicable diseases following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. The National Assembly continues with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on general administrative procedure following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. What no amendments have been tabled to the amended law, cannot be tabled in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a drug law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The draft law on medicinal products at first reading is suitable for further consideration." Ambassador Znidarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We will support this law, of course, in the hope that it will be completed in the second reading. In doing so, I am referring to the provision on the sale of medicinal products in specialised shops. In fact, it is a difference, even though some people think that if in pharmacies no one gets instructions, it doesn't matter whether then buys such drugs in a pharmacy or a specialised store, but it doesn't. The pharmacy can absolutely get the necessary instructions if it wants them, but absolutely not in a specialised store and it would suggest that it should be corrected. Thank you. Nevertheless, we will support the law, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u264	My friend Znidarsich, thank you. We're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 51-10 votes against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. By adopting the proposed decision, the law will be allocated to the home labour body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we are moving on to the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the bill amending the law on local self-government. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending the law on local self-government, first consideration, is suitable for further consideration." Anybody want to explain their voice? Here you go. Comrade Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u265	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I apologize to the first-signed motioner that I had not been in the Chamber before when she discussed it, but I simply cannot support this bill. The existing conditions for setting up or granting the status of municipalities are indeed quite high and there are not many municipalities in Slovenia that meet these conditions. I will give three conditions or three reasons why I will not support this bill. The first is the government’s position that there is no doubt that the establishment of the city’s municipalities will be discussed in the setting up of the provinces or in regionalisation. The second reason is that the conditions are so reduced that now, so that the municipality can become any administrative unit that is in Slovenia, which seems to me to be a complete nonsense. The third reason is that you have chosen the easiest way to change the law, and I think it would be much better for those municipalities or those who have proposed a change of law to increase this developmental attitude. In fact, one example I will say, the municipality of Domžale becomes a sleeping village, of the 30,000 inhabitants we have only 9,000 jobs. That's something to think about, I think. Now the next thing is a new financial perspective, a very great success of the government, but of course it depends largely on the municipalities or local communities. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u266	Comrade Horvath, may I remind you that your time has run out, and I also appreciate that you have exceeded the Institute of Parliament's explanations of vote. Please, if you'll just finish your thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u267	Yeah, I just won't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u268	A message from the Flowers of Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u269	I think that we have already said a lot of arguments in the debate, as a proponent of course I have no dilemma, and I will support this law, because I am sure that in more than a three-hour debate we have shown that the amendment of this law is absolutely necessary if we are to tell the Slovenian public that we have serious intentions and are not anti-urban. The policy led by both the ruling coalition and the ruling coalition clearly shows with many moves that anti-urban policy prevails in Slovenia. And all we wanted to achieve by this law was that the criteria, which are the only ones still enshrined in the law, while all the other provisions, both on jurisdiction and on the tasks of the municipalities, were deleted by June's amendment, in short, so that such a policy would continue. Finally, in the ruling coalition, you have also allowed the establishment of a crowd of new municipalities with just such a minor change of law that allows the establishment of new and new small municipalities, including under 5,000 people. And, of course, in this sense, I can also explain, because it has been said that the Domžalje have 10,000 700 jobs and not only 9,000 jobs, but they will become due to such anti-urban policy at this point after eleven years the municipality will become a touchdown. This is evidently a sign that shows that such a congregation, which in previous circumstances was stronger and more developed than the Republic of Montenegro in the new country, apparently has no real option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u270	Thank you. Explanation of voice. Vice President Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Obviously not only is the policy of this government anti-urban is also anti-coastal. And I'll talk like an immigrant or a new Iranian. The problem is next. Not only are we turning the second track into a side track, not only are we turning the third pier into the eighth pier of the port of commerce, but we are not only taking away the privileges of Primorska, what would have happened if we had three regions, we are not now giving Piran what he would have been doing after more than 1,000 years of tradition due to the full-form quantitative conditions. And these quantitative conditions, as now specified, dear colleagues, 20,000 inhabitants, 15,000 jobs, are extracted from the vine, because in a piranha case we can quickly find that because of their specific situation, there are more than 25,000, 30,000 tourists, many sailors and other people working in Pirano temporarily, all of this shows that these conditions are now unfair, not only to Piran. I am talking about Piran because I live in this congregation. Therefore, I think that, in view of the other exceptions already in force from all the municipalities, there have been several hours of talks about this today, and I am not going to add my thoughts to this, and I appeal to you to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u272	Thank you. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u273	Thank you. I'm going to support the marriage because it's working orderly and normalizing. Moreover, no city congregation will be established in the future on the basis of the formation of the provinces and no province on the basis of the formation of the city’s municipalities. Let me just remind you that this moment we have 12 statistical regions and 11 urban municipalities. And if you look at it again, you don't happen to have the city center of the province. There is no connection between these two terms. They're just excuses.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u274	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u275	Thank you. I cannot support such a law as is proposed because indeed the proposed changes have certain financial implications. We know that. In view of the fact that, under these conditions, the municipalities listed by the proposer would be given the opportunity to do so, it is true that these municipalities are no longer self-financing but are dependent on financial compensation. This means that additional resources were needed. Why was the majority of these congregations really one of those self - financed in this year or last year, and now not? It is precisely because after four, five years in this national assembly that we received more suitable spending from local communities. Appropriate consumption is said to have increased by 10% and another 4 and a half percent for the following year. This meant that the proper consumption of these congregations also rose. In the debate, I understood earlier that some people didn't need it. This is an additional argument that it is absolutely necessary to amend the law on the financing of municipalities. I won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u276	Thank you. Member Tomaž Šteba has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Having the status of the city hall seems to be prestige for some. But the key to success is to ensure growth and to ensure competitive jobs. Not only settle, have a "fuzbal" club and such things, but especially the possibility of creating competitive and profitable and reliable jobs. The creation of cities or urban communities in the chain is also not a major goal. We should follow the trends that are in modern times, that is, not the essence, or the focus, but the quality of life that you offer to your inhabitants and what opportunities to your economy. In Slovenia, there is a desire to increase the number of people, forgetting the right aspects of development while at the same time noticing that the right places are failing. I won't be able to support such a marriage. I believe that with appropriate policy and coordination of the creation of landscapes and other centres, it will be possible to organise the country in an appropriate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u278	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Ambassador Rudolph Petan, I would like to ask if the National Assembly will go through so much solidarity with its fellow Members and allow them to give explanations of vote to give reasons for, or why, why. Comrade Pukšič, this applies specifically to you. Please, if that's what you're considering. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u279	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I cannot support this law through three basic approaches. First, because I think we had something similar a few days ago, and then we shouted very much that this institution was the same as it was considered to be an abuse of the parliamentary institution to benefit our own congregation. A few days ago, we discussed this, and then our fellow Member was severely spitted out, and, I will not say, I expect this to happen today, but I cannot support it now, because it seems exactly the same to me, and it seems to me that it seems incorrect from my fellow Member that she had so much to say at the time, and today she is doing the same thing alone. Second. I don't think so either, because the position of the applicants is that this government is anti-urban. That's not true. This government is not anti-urban if some previously donated municipalities have now become subsidized, this means that the government has now taken a different approach and that to those municipalities that have continued to impose certain obligations, without any monetary compensation, it is now also providing monetary compensation. This is said to be something completely different and this is even positive. Thirdly, it seems to me that this government is not anti-urban and is working for the benefit of municipalities, citizens, citizens, because it has to solve the problems of those who have already claimed that Slovenia is a disadvantaged country and does not have free access to the sea and of course we have to solve this differently, but today they are talking about this government, which is correcting these mistakes, that it is not working for the benefit of people. Of course, that's not true, and that's why I can't support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u280	Thank you, Comrade Petan. I give my word to Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u281	I'm just going to explain my voice and I'm not going to argue with anyone, and I'm not going to praise the government for that because I think it's good enough to brag about itself. I will vote in favour of this law, because I think that with it, in particular, that many people in Slovenia will be said to be even more proud of their place, and that is why I would be more pleased to be able to participate in all the tasks of local self-government. I believe that the money that would have been obtained by this law from that congregation receiving compensation is so small that I feel that it is not worth talking about as a basic reason, I think, above all, that you have the sense that you are living in a respectable, important and, above all, well-groomed and successful congregation. If the congregations in this area were listed in the explanation of the law, perhaps the reasons for voting for this law would be even more important and people who live with them in these congregations could be pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u282	Thank you. The message of the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem, in its own name? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u283	Thank you very much. At the parliamentary club, we will support a change of law, for with it we will remedy three illegal or three criminal situations. First time. This law could be used to remedy the illegal situation, since, as has been said several times today, the majority of the existing municipalities do not meet the criteria that are written in relation to the municipalities in the current law, which means that at this point in the field and with these criteria in Slovenia, the government is in fact an illegal state, to which we have always warned. Most municipalities do not meet the criteria for the number of jobs, which is also the main obstacle to other proposals. Another time. I would like to remedy the illegal situation, because the June amendment is a line-up procedure for the formation of urban municipalities, so at this point I do not know how the State Assembly will resolve the situation in this regard, since we have several proposals on the table that came within this call deadline. However, the law does not provide for the way this procedure goes forward or to the end. And the third time. I'd also like to see financial injustice cleared up. I am convinced that these municipalities perform certain central functions and are gravitational centres both in terms of education, education, culture, sports activities and many others. It would be correct and fair for these central functions to also receive certain higher ones and therefore no significant damage would be caused. In fact, such a law would in some way protect existing urban congregations. At the moment, the changes in the congregations are being attacked, if I say so, by three municipal congregations, which will in some way be deprived of important parts. Last but not least, there will be no more towns in Slovenia. At the moment, the smaller municipality of Koper, Nova Gorica and Novo mesto, is squandered in this way. These are on the show today, tomorrow there will be other and apparently such strong environments in Slovenia no longer. You've written down several times that you want to respect people's will, and in law we suggest that the referendum be deleted, because I'm sure it would be 100% referendums. If we want to respect people’s will, we could also find a positive voice for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u284	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision, once again, on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the law on local self-government, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the assembly of the proposed decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law is concluded. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night and good luck!
