ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting the following Members: only Bevk from 6 p.m. onwards, Dr. Slavko Gaber, Ljubo Germič from 1 p.m. on, Franz Kangler from 2 p.m. on, mag. Janez Kramberger, Martin Mikolič from 2 p.m. on, Rudolf Može from 5 p.m. on, Villa Trophynik and mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Second draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Minister Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! In addition, I would like to clarify the amendments or amendments to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. We have to adopt this law or we have proposed it for you to be admitted because of the law on offences, where we have to turn the fines into fines. Furthermore, this law is already six years old and due to some legal changes and the organisation of the state administration we have changed all the necessary articles which define which authorities are responsible for certain areas. We have also attributed the powers of inspection services and ministries and made all changes to the names of the state authorities. At the same time, because of the changes in European legislation or our entry into the European Union, we are obliged to accept certain other matters in this regard. Thus, we need to establish a record of all drivers who have been certified to be able to carry dangerous goods. We have not had such records in our country so far, so we are establishing them. The Ministry of the Interior will establish such records and also issue the necessary certificates. With such a record, we will reduce the possibility of misuse of the transport of dangerous goods by unauthorized persons and will make it easier to control whether persons carrying such goods have such permits, even if they are not present at that time. This will result in better environmental security and greater transport safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Transport Committee as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Frank Kangler, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Transport Committee shall be held at its 8th session. 10. Second reading of the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods, which was tabled by the Government in the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service made specific comments and proposals to each article, and in particular to Article 4, which adds the power to approve the transport of radioactive and nuclear substances in addition to the Minister responsible for the environment, also gives the organisation designated by the Minister. In the third paragraph of this Article, which lays down, under the current regime, the method of determining the authorised organisation for the handling of packaging, the transport of other dangerous goods, it is laid down that such organisation shall be determined by the Minister responsible for the market which, in cooperation with national accreditation, the pre-service shall determine the fulfilment of the conditions. In Article 20, the Legal and Legislative Service recalls the proposed amendment to allow a border police officer to refuse a vehicle due to serious breaches of the rules. Article 22 provides for an exemption for the transport of infected live animals provided that the air carrier provides for the special written authorisation of the competent national authority of the country of origin for exemption in accordance with paragraph 4. In Article 26, the Minister considers that the solution referred to in the second paragraph relating to the rules would be to be reconsidered by the Minister in relation to the envisaged principle of prohibition, as referred to in Article 22 or the amended Article 66 of the Law on the dangerous carriage of dangerous goods by air. Following an introductory explanation of the draft law by the representative of the proposer in accordance with Rule 126 and Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Transport Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill. In doing so, he has adopted several amendments which he has drafted as his amendments and are accompanied by an integral part of the reports. After final consideration of the Act, the Committee voted and supported all amendments to the Committee, as well as the amended proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the transport of dangerous goods, which is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač, SDS, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! From the presentation of the Minister and the Chairman of the Committee, we have heard about the basic solutions and the amendments adopted on the home working body, so allow me to give just a few more arguments leading the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to support this law. The Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods provides for the carriage of dangerous goods in road, rail, air and maritime transport. This law lays down the minimum conditions to be met by all involved in the transport of dangerous goods in order to ensure safe transport and, in addition to that, it also provides for the application of the applicable international rules for transport within the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments and additions to the law dictate technical and technological progress, which is why the rules governing the transport of dangerous goods are constantly changing. Some amendments and additions are published as annexes to international agreements every other year. Adapting the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods to the modified organisation of the State administration and more precise descriptions of the powers of the supervisory authorities also lead to an increase in the effectiveness of control itself. All these are the reasons for the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Horvat, New Slovenia, has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, honourable fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished Mr Minister. The rules in the field of dangerous goods are constantly changing and supplementing. The purpose is clear. To regulate the transport of dangerous goods by law in such a way as to prevent accidents or even major disasters by means of preventive action. To begin with, the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the transport of dangerous goods. We have also supported the amendment of the Committee of the National Transport Council, which has considered the draft law to be the working body of the mother. Our reasons for supporting the bill are as follows. First time. The law duly aligns the provisions of the Slovenian rules on the transport of dangerous goods with the amendments and additions applicable in international transport. The proposed amendments are aligned with the provisions of the Annexes to the international agreements, which are being amended due to technological and technical developments. The current international rules lay down very closely the conditions for the classification, packaging and labelling of goods and the conditions to be met by means of means of transport. This is a direct transposition of Directives of the European Union, Protocols and International Conventions. Another time. The law also properly introduces coordination with regard to the reorganisation of the state administration and ensures the more precise competence of the supervisory authorities, thereby increasing the effectiveness of control. The validity of the law shall be ensured without modification in the case of possible future reorganisations of the state administration. For example, the names of ministries are being corrected; only a general designation is given because of greater flexibility; the news is that the police keep records of certificates issued for the transport of substances and legal persons and independent entrepreneurs who are security advisers. The safety adviser shall be required only for road and rail transport, at border crossings vehicles which are contrary to the prescriptions shall not be refused, but shall only withdraw from transport and so on. Thirdly, the law introduces the harmonisation of criminal provisions with amendments to the Act on Offences, which was necessary. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group will unanimously support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the transport of dangerous goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kangler, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will mention a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the transport of dangerous goods, and I can also stress that we have supported all the amendments, the amendments of the committee and thus ensure that the law is transparent. I would like to point out that Slovenia is a crossroads from the east to the west, from the north to the south, meaning within the European Union a major road crossing and transit, both radioactive and other nuclear materials, as well as certain infected animals, provided that certain formal legal bases are regulated so that such dangerous goods can be transported through Slovenia and are also coming to Slovenia. We are committed to the legal arrangements for the review of radioactive and nuclear substances that transit through Slovenia in any way, both at the entry into the Slovenian territory and at the exit from Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this proposal of the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 28 October 2005, following the end of the agenda of this meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CRIMINAL PROCEDURE LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Please, Secretary of State Marolt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia partially annulled the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act governing the conditions and procedure for the determination and the duration and termination of the temporary insurance of the claim for the confiscation of the proceeds of the offence, partly finding their non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and imposing on the legislator that the non-compliance should be abolished within one year. In accordance with that decision of the Constitutional Court and the referral of the Constitutional Court in explanation of this decision, appropriate amendments and additions to the law on criminal proceedings to be dealt with today had to be made. The procedure for determining the provisional insurance of an application for the confiscation of the proceeds of a criminal offence is laid down in Article 502 of the Criminal Procedure Act. In view of the meaningful substantive linkage, it is also necessary to harmonise Article 109 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which provides for a temporary insurance procedure for the property claim of the injured party. The terms, procedures, duration and termination of temporary insurance are thus laid down in amended 502. and new 502.a. to 502.d. Articles of the Criminal Procedure Act. More important changes and additions in this area are as follows: for the first time, as a temporary insurer is a designated state prosecutor; for the second time, the conditions under which temporary insurance is permitted in the pre-commanding procedure are laid down are explicitly laid down; for the third time, the ex-post contradiction with the first stage of the opposition procedure is established; for the second time, the right to appeal is further regulated; for the next time, the relative and absolute maximum duration of the interim insurance measure is determined; and for the last time, a procedure for the extension of the measure and the procedure for amending and repealing the measure is laid down. At the same time, the draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Act, G, includes some other necessary amendments and additions, in which I briefly point out only the most important at this point. First, terminological and substantive alignment with the proposal for a witness protection law; secondly, the alignment with the Council Framework Decision of 13 June 2002 on joint investigation teams; further appropriate determination of the evidentiary standard for detention under the second paragraph of Article 157 of the Criminal Procedure Act and the re-implementation of the deadline for the submission of legal protection requirements under Article 559 of the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Good day to the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members! At its 12th meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered this proposal for a law. The representative of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, said in the context of the supplementary explanation to the article of the bill that the purpose of the bill was to harmonise the law on criminal proceedings by establishing and deciding on the Constitutional Court, to make terminology and content consistent with the proposal for a law on the protection of witnesses, to comply with the Council Framework Decision of the European Union on Joint Investigation Groups, to comply with the law on the protection of personal data, to establish a more appropriate standard of proof of detention under the second paragraph of Article 157 of the Criminal Procedure Act, as well as with minor editorial corrections. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, in his opening remarks, said that the comments of that service in the written opinion were largely taken into account by proposals for amendments to the Committee submitted by the Ministry to the Committee. In the debate, members and members of the Committee highlighted in particular Article 20 of the proposal for a law relating to an extended range of beneficiaries for lodging claims for the protection of legality. Some discussers believe that there is no need to extend the range of beneficiaries to distant relatives, since in the vast majority of cases rehabilitation would no longer be possible and would no longer be a satisfaction, but would be an exploitation at the expense of old uncles and aunts. They also considered that the bill placed priests and monks in a better position, while the remaining majority of members and members felt otherwise and stressed that these proposals were appropriate. In the context of the debate and the vote on the amendments, the Committee did not adopt the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 20 and adopted its amendments, as well as all the other articles of the bill you have in the amended bill, which is an integral part of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Willie Rezman, DeSUS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u16	Good day and thank you so much for saying that! Although it seems best that today's session begin with a debate on charity purposes and actions, the agenda has intended us to start with crime and crime, but it is. Crime seems to be growing, it seems to be getting new and new forms, that it is becoming more and more competent and, of course, must also be matched by all those measures that will ensure faster detection, which will ensure that we respond to it more easily, prevent it, and, where necessary, punish it. We also respond to all of this by proposing amendments to the Penal Code and offering us a range of measures that we support in the DeSUS Group, most of these proposals. This is because the proposer responds to certain provisions of the Constitutional Court decision, either with regard to the detection of non-compliance with the Constitution, with regard to the excessive right of access to property, or with regard to the lack of protection of the same rights of persons against the law or to discrimination against the same protection. So these are measures that need to be supported in order to ensure that the law is no longer in conflict, and that is what we support in the Group of Members. We also support those measures that are proposed to protect those who help to detect and prove these crimes. Therefore, we support the need to be milder or to approve the fines for those who participate in detection and are perpetrators themselves. We support this to protect those we call skeptics. We also support the provision of greater and more reliable Witnesses’ anonymity. The government is proposing a number of other measures, which, after the Secretary of State has already spoken, are probably no longer worth mentioning. It also proposes an extended deadline for the submission of requests for redress. It is the fact that these measures, which have already been announced by the Government, are aimed at significantly expanding the range of beneficiaries and that for those beneficiaries who do not have owners, applications could be made by others belonging to them, i.e. by other communities belonging to them. Here we feel that there is an exception, and the government itself writes in its proposal that it is an exception, perhaps worth further consideration. We have thought this through ourselves, and we believe that this is indeed a matter of differences and discrimination against the various actors before the Court, and therefore we propose that the two amendments, which have been rejected on the Committee, reconsider and that they receive our support. This is therefore the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u18	Well, hello, all of you. I will briefly present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the law on amendments and additions to the law on criminal proceedings. As already mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, the amendments and additions proposed by the Government are primarily aimed at harmonising the law on criminal proceedings with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which partially annulled the provisions of the law on the procedure governing the conditions and procedure for the determination and the permanent cessation of the temporary insurance of the claim for the confiscation of the proceeds of the crime. It is further a matter of terminology and content in line with the proposal of the Witness Protection Act, in line with the Council Framework Decision of the European Union on Joint Investigation Groups, in coordination with the Personal Data Protection Act, in order to establish a more appropriate standard of proof of detention, then to further complement the measure to ensure that the accused is present and to ensure a minor editorial correction of that law. In our Group of Members, we believe that in specific cases of amendment and amendment of the law, there are legitimate proposals that need to be done, has also been shown in practice. Let me remind you, for example, Orion, where, despite good will, it was not possible to act properly. Of course, the changes in the criminal procedure alone do not yet constitute a solution to resolve the issue of the situation of the proceedings, the possibility of quicker resolution of judicial disputes and, given that our justice system is complicated, there is likely to be a need for further systemic solutions throughout the justice system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have always advocated that the laws are clear and enforceable, so we support solutions that will lead to a faster and more effective resolution of criminal proceedings and, of course, we will fully support these proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, LDS, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor, honourable Members and Members. The LDS Club supports in principle the proposal of the law, most of which concerns both compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the necessary and justified substantive alignment with the proposal of the Witness Protection Act, the establishment of joint investigation teams at Union level, the regulation of proceedings in the case of crimes of trafficking in persons, and so on. However, the LDS Club does not support the method of re-establishing the deadline for lodging claims for the protection of legality, for the following reasons. We believe that there is no need to identify other persons who will be able to apply for the protection of legality at the place of convicts, because these relatives are too far away from the convict and, in the vast majority of cases, rehabilitation would no longer be a satisfaction, but it would be an abuse at the expense of old uncles and aunts, for example. The beneficiaries of the application for protection of legality should remain the same as before. Article 20, which is supplemented by the re-application of Article 559 of the Basic Law on Criminal Procedure, will be supported if the extension of the circle of beneficiaries concerns all requirements for the protection of legality and not only for judicial decisions for offences referred to in Article 20(2) of the present proposal, because this would constitute an inequality before the law and a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We also believe that, in relation to the provisions of Article 20, or the beneficiaries of the application for protection of legality, it provides a better position for priests compared to other people who, for example, did not choose a priestly profession, or people who did not have offspring because they were infertile, or people who consciously decided that they would not have offspring, as the priests had consciously decided to become priests, thus violating Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that we are all the same before the law. Therefore, the Article's proposal that the legal representatives of their registered religious communities may also submit a request to protect the legality of priests or monks with regard to judicial decisions against them will not be supported. This is also due to the fact that the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia may apply for the protection of legality for any violation of the law and may do so in cases of priests and monks who do not have descendants, due to the time-distantness of the parents, or they have already passed away. Therefore, in our view, the law does not have to be amended. Also in Slovenia we do not know any other law that specifically regulates the status of a priest because he does not have and must not have descendants, for example, the law on inheritance, which does not say that he is the first legal heir, such as the Church, because the priest does not have a wife or a descendant who could otherwise be his heir. We are aware that injustice has occurred to all opposers of the current regime, and not only to those who carried the priestly plate. We will therefore support the proposal if the amendments tabled by the LDS are adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Members and Members of the SD will be supported by the proposal for a law supplementing the law on criminal proceedings. We hope that the proposed additions will contribute to the effectiveness of the criminal procedure and to the successful punishment of offenders. We have also supported the Government's efforts in the parliamentary group this time, as ever before, especially if they are consistent with the legal profession and the judiciary, which should enable consistent respect for human rights within the framework of the legal system, but at the same time prevent all abuses in the process in order to prevent the punishment of perpetrators of crimes, particularly those with the most unacceptable social consequences, by delaying or otherwise unacceptable. And just the right legislation, human skills and financial conditions for work, not lax assessment or political and public pressure on justice in specific cases, are the path that can and must gradually ensure the resolution of judicial backlogs, a more successful resolution of even the most difficult cases, and finally a greater confidence in justice, which has been most stifled by the inadequate functioning of policy. In doing so, we have not yet participated in the work of the Member and Members of the SD even at a time when we were in the coalition, and we do not want to act now that we are in the opposition. However, the current coalition parties have constantly politicized and contributed to the serious erosion of its reputation. All the actions of the judiciary, which were not in line with their political views and interests, were declared politically motivated or even politically ordered by the ruling coalition, although there were no grounds for that. We can hope that now that the authorities and the human resources solutions also have an impact on justice, such behaviour will change, but not in the sense that they have a political impact on the concrete conduct of the judicial authorities. We hope this is finally the way it's gonna be. The Minister of Justice has the knowledge and reputation that such behaviour by the government and the coalition could ensure only if he wishes and does not require as much time for certain clear positions as he did against the termination of a permanent judicial mandate, which he finally made clear on the day of Slovenian lawyers in Portorož. However, we gave a special warning when discussing this law. We have noted that the solutions proposed by the Government regarding the opening of new deadlines for requirements for the protection of legality are neither necessary nor necessary. In particular, because they do not tell how much this will make the government's new material obligations and because the criteria under which the government makes such proposals are very different. Once there is a political assessment of the need for additional rights for its people, additional rights are guaranteed and, secondly, when the rights they already have are taken from them, even under political criteria, laws are proposed to take those rights. This is also the case, and it would be good if the government did not make many changes to the relevant and already adopted legislation under these criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kulcer Dolinar, New Slovenia has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Hello again. The criminal procedure is a sensitive matter, the purpose of the criminal procedure is to determine, on the one hand, the defendant’s guilt and, on the other hand, the protection of the rights of the parties to the proceedings. And it is the procedural guarantees that provide all parties with the law on criminal proceedings. The proposal to amend the law and to supplement the law on criminal procedure brings some novelties which will allow for a higher standard of protection of the rights of the parties and will be in line with certain provisions of other laws that we have already amended, as some provisions have now been repealed by the Constitutional Court. The latter repeal amends and complements the interim insurance procedure of the claim for the confiscation of the property benefit obtained by the offence and the interim insurance of the property claim of the injured party. Under the current regime, the court shall order temporary insurance on an official basis and shall, on a proposal, be designated as a temporary insurance applicant as a state prosecutor. The conditions for interim insurance and the right to object to the decision, the competent authority and the decision-making procedure are also laid down. New forms of criminality and its rise, especially cases of judicial practice, have long shown the need for different treatment of witnesses and scenics, especially in the direction of their insurance, where there is a serious danger, not only for their lives but also for their bodies. Complements will provide an opportunity to protect those accused who are prepared to disclose relevant information, as well as their immediate relatives. Thus, these persons and other witnesses, if there are legitimate grounds for protection, will be given before, during and after the criminal procedure and will also contribute to the disclosure of any information more than they would otherwise have if they felt threatened. So a witness protection institute will be established, and this is also the basis given in the CAP proposal. According to the bill, minors will also be better protected, as they will have to have a minor all the time since the introduction of the Ombudsman's procedure, both for the crime of trafficking in human beings and for criminal offences, the abuse of prostitution and the presentation, manufacture and possession of pornographic material. The law follows the current topics of the fight against terrorism and other cross-border crime; last week, the European Parliament held a joint meeting, a meeting of the European Parliament's committees on justice and national committees on internal affairs, with a central focus on security. It was clear that the common awareness of European countries was that the basis for a common fight against crime was mainly good cooperation, both between the competent authorities between countries and between the competent authorities of the European Union. In the New Slovenia Group, we also support the re-implementation of an extraordinary deadline for the application of requirements for the protection of legality against those judicial decisions rendered by the previous regime in contravention and against fundamental respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in more than unmounted processes. Therefore, we also support the extension of the range of beneficiaries to apply, which is extended to blood relatives in the lateral line to the third knee, as well as the solution that legal representatives of registered religious communities have the opportunity to make for priests and monks. This is based on the basic point of view that it is both for the name of an individual, i.e. a person, that it is a desire to apply for both the name of the person and of the family, as well as of a particular community, to be washed. We must not blind ourselves; more than 100 priests were killed because of the fact that they were members of a certain religious community. As we say, in the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kangler, SLS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, honourable Members and Members of the Government! The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will mention a proposal to amend and supplement the law on criminal procedure. The proposal for a law was tabled by the Government. In particular, the law is designed to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision and certain other laws and with the Council's decision on joint investigation teams. It is important that we also follow European trends. With this amendment of the law, we again legislate comparatively on the proposals of the deadline for temporary insurance of the claim for the confiscation of property benefits. On the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that there were long deadlines, I quote, "obviously because of the actual state of permanent judicial proceedings or in this case criminal proceedings". In the case of the Slovenian People's Party, we are committed to reducing these procedures in order to prepare, in accordance with the law, the effectiveness, speed and legality of criminal proceedings. It is important that criminal proceedings are carried out quickly, that they are effective and that any party who is found, either as an injured party or as a person in the process, feels that the proceedings are proceeding as they must. On the committee we also supported the amendments mentioned, the amendments of the committee previously drafted by the government. As for the application for protection of legality or the extension of the time limit, we do not see any difficulty in extending this period in the Slovenian People's Party. It is necessary to give options, where they exist, including the political will to extend to anyone who has ever been harmed, or because of such or other criminal proceedings that have been committed in the past, this requirement for the protection of the rule of law and also enable them to find their right where justice has also occurred. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the above-mentioned proposal for a law on criminal procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u28	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, government representatives. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure, according to the Slovenian National Party, has a double content. The first, which we absolutely support in the Slovenian National Party, is coordination with other laws and harmonisation, finally achieved in at least one area. It has some advantages that we have heard in the implementation of my predecessors. In the second part, however, the Slovenian national party makes the law conditional on equality before the Constitution. It is right to establish an exceptional deadline for the protection of legality or, in the domestic sense, rehabilitation; but this should be introduced for all categories of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party on the draft law, we would like to say that we should all be the same in Slovenia and that we cannot recognise the content that is in the proposal of this law that one is more equal than the other. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support this law, to the extent that - to the extent that - we will contribute to the adoption of this law, and we will also support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 20. As long as this amendment, which primarily protects constitutional equality and Article 14 of the Constitution, is not supported, we will not support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 25.10.2005. I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Please, Dr. Pavlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, distinguished colleagues, Members and Members, as much as you persist in the dry and sad subject of criminal law. We have heard quite a few legal arguments, as well as some political arguments, either to support the proposal for amendments, or to avoid them. Let me try to be more simple on my own and on practical occasions show why our amendment; why our amendment, of course, is completely in good faith. We are talking about two sets of problems; on the one hand, the expansion of the circle of beneficiaries to apply for the protection of legality and, on the other hand, the determination of the specific situation of priests. A few words about both of them. First. Although the case is still painful for me, I will make it public because I have nothing to hide. My old father on my mother's side, Grandpa we named, was in the Gubčeva Brigade, and then after the release of a beautiful day, Oma, his wife, only learned after a few months that he was imprisoned, that he was on the Golem Island, where he spent more or less than five years because of a political structure and a delicacy that he would not discuss. You probably can't think of the suffering that the closest family has suffered, from his wife, my limit, and not least to two small children, my mother and my uncle. Grandpa died too early for that. In the end, my parents and uncles did not choose to use the legal option and file legal protection. But I'm sure she'd be justified if she wasn't a dead wife, and I'm sure they would. They endured pain and suffering, and by rehabilitating their late father, they would achieve what is in a very distant way some kind of rehabilitation or satisfaction. However, we all know that the possible amount you receive from the compensation or, last but not least, the acquittal of the fines of the thirsty, which means nothing to anyone. Now I come to the point: what would happen if, for example, my cousins or cousins who did not know most of my grandfather? Would it be a real move that would bring satisfaction to these people, or would it be something that is so far away, that has absolutely nothing to do with the purpose of the legislator or the purpose envisaged by this amendment of the law? For this reason, such an expansion of the circle of beneficiaries does not seem to be justified; nor do I go to this place at all, because something has already been said in Article 14 of the Constitution, which guarantees equality before the law. For example, the extension of the circle of beneficiaries would support itself only in the case of - but this will obviously not happen - if it were applicable to all offences, but not only those laid down in Article 20(2). So much for the first problem. The second problem concerns, simply put, the better position of the priests of the Catholic Church. Yesterday, I listened to quite a few hot - blooded debates about what one of us has to do with the Church, with the Catholic faith, with the clergy. And I need to be specific and personal again. I have quite a few very good friends of theologians and priests myself. Last time I did my daughter a few weeks ago, so I'm totally, what can I say, even here liberal or neutral. Here I will quote - and Mr Moze will also be pleased - an old Roman saying "Sine Ira et Studio", so, the matter should be dealt with without emotion, this would be an approximate translation of this proverb. And here, regardless of my friendship with the priests and whatever emotional connection or village life I've been living for some years, and which is overly religious, not any, but with Catholic faith, not any, but with Catholic faith, I have trouble breaking Article 14 of the Constitution. This time, however, I will read it, reading the Constitution too few times, in some way the Bible of the rule of law says: "In Slovenia everyone is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs" etc. and then at the end or "any other personal circumstance". And I think that this is where the legislator goes too far again; that is, the priests are so protected, and so can be protected by the possibility that the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia has. He may apply for the protection of legality for any violation, including in the case of priests and monks. For example, why does a professional soldier who does not have offspring or a professional firefighter not have such rights? Finally, other laws, at least for the time being, do not regulate the special position of priests, such as the law on inheritance, which does not say that the first legal heir of the Church is because the priest does not have a wife or a progeny that could be. Therefore, dear colleagues, I would ask you to reconsider the meaning of these changes and additions, and I ask you to support our amendment, which is, as it is said, - and I hope you believe me - written and fully invested in good faith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In a way, I believe my dear colleague Paulihu that he is convinced that this amendment was made in good faith because he is more open and sometimes more naive than the environment he fell into. However, I must say that the rhetoric from the two parties who officially represented this amendment and also the attitude towards this law and to this exceptional deadline for the protection of legality for the consequences of criminal proceedings in the past has convinced me that this rhetoric has not actually changed in the 40s or 50s. I have heard again a hard totalitarian rhetoric, firmly defensive in all the revolutionary laws on the basis of which human rights have been violated. And to me, frankly, that's surprising. In fact, it's also about - now it's quite clear to me why this kind of, in fact, unreasonable defense that has happened in the past, genocide. Current cases concerning the clearance of the genocide of the Republic of Slovenia. Things are very connected. In fact, some parties to the previous regime are still making every effort to defend the former legislation, in their view it is virtually forbidden to eliminate the injustices committed under legislation that infringed human rights. Look at this list of laws that are written here in article 20! How many, once again, 'lex specialis', I would say, laws that were written just to penalise people who were democratically oriented, who wanted only to exercise their human rights, which were already guaranteed by international conventions. And that is why it seems very unreasonable and strange to say that priests are also something special and that you have violated the Slovenian Constitution. If in the previous regime the Church had the right to the status of a legal person, then this would in itself have been resolved, but you all know that it did not have this right on the last day of the previous regime, it did not have this status. Even some of you who are sitting here could have achieved in previous regimes to make these things better, to clear up, and not have them here today, and now with totalitarian rhetoric you are challenging the legitimacy of rehabilitation. I have to say again; what is happening in this country is that 90-year-old witnesses of genocide may not be the reason for the court to give such a priority to hearing such people - this is missing evidence - and that you support such things, that is unheard of! It seems unheard of to me, but I am not going to defend anyone here, but I see the attitude towards human rights; in any way, I would say, to protect and restore the revolution. Of course, I cannot go beyond saying that totalitarian tendencies are also concealed in such support, but here I exclude Mark Pavlich because I believe in his well-intention, but on the other hand he should be the first to see such aspirations in his own kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Slovenian National Party reiterates that we are talking today about a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the commemorative process and I do not want and do not want to be a member of this national council, that this consideration of the proposal will turn into a fight between atheists, believers, etc. Please, colleagues and colleagues, let us be reasonable and respect the Constitution in particular, respect the laws. I am pleased that you believe in the well-intention and honesty of the amendment to Article 20; and so, too, I believe. I would point out, first of all, to this amendment to Article 7 of the Constitution, which clearly and loudly states that the State and the religious community are separate, that religious communities are equal and their functioning are free. Of course I support this article. I would also warn, just as a respected colleague - I will not quote him - Article 14 of the Constitution, thus guaranteeing everyone the same rights. Finally, when discussing Article 20 and the amendment, I ask my colleagues and colleagues to check the opinion of the parent working body, who is working hard, working hard, and the opinion of the parent working body is perfectly clear. This is not a political opinion, this is the majority opinion of this body, which says that there is no need to extend the circle of beneficiaries to distant relatives, because rehabilitation may not mean satisfaction, but exploitation. It also draws attention to violations of the principle of equality. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, there is some reason why such a good law, which is to a large extent up-to-date, is harmonised; harmonisation introduces what is necessary. It's a good law. Why should only on the basis of some such or other beliefs, which are in fact provided in the Constitution, prevent the adoption of this law. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the amendment of the Liberal Democracy to Article 20 is justified not to harm or humiliate anyone and that it establishes equality and equality between Slovenians and Slovenians. There will be no substantive difference, even if this amendment is adopted, in the law itself. We will be grateful that we will have a more modern law and that this law will bring some additional rights to all, including the clergy - all and the clergy. So let us give the opportunity to benefit from the rights of this law all, not just some structures. Understand and accept this amendment and the law will even be adopted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I asked for a replica because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u37	Is that a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u38	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u40	As Chairman of the Committee and rapporteur, I have a duty to respond to Mr Barovic's presentation, which says that the opinion of his mother's working body was so and so. Mr Barovic, please read under item 5: "Members and members of the committee are in the debate" - this is the summary of the discussion in the framework of the report of the parent working body. I can expect honesty, as you said, and well-intentionedness, but certainly, when you talk about reports, be correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. You want to debate because you've been reported yet. Don't you? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you very much. However, I would also like to be involved in this debate on the proposal for amendments. Today there has been talk about justice and good intentions, we often wonder and miss, and we like to say that today there is a lack of those upright people in the right sense, and perhaps it is not so bad if we also look back into the past, where there is also a reason for the proposed regulation in the law. It may not be necessary to stress in particular how many conscious people at that time ended not only their lives but also their health or their ups and downs: either in prisons or under ten years of pressure of an unblooded terror and unjustifiable judicial decision. Of course, some were able to make personal changes with promises, with bribes, but many were unable to influence and were because they did not leave because they remained upright, falsely condemned. Probably not even the lives of the descendants of those who persecuted and condemned, nor of those who were persecuted and condemned, will for some time be the same as it would have been. The final number of victims of these experiments is probably never to be known, but I ask, in fact, the opponents of the proposed solution in the law and the motioners of the amendments, from which they are so eager to prevent these people from returning their personal name and their honour and validity. Here I think that we must look not only at a person but rather at their families, even at the communities, at the religious communities, because we know that there have been many convictions against members of the religious community in view of the mass proceedings. That is why we support and support the solution within the framework of the proposal for a law to extend this possibility to blood relatives to the third generation, as well as the possibility of legal representatives of registered communities. As has already been said, it is a matter of restoring a good name, a person, a family, as well as a specific community. That is why I will not support the amendment myself, but I would like to perhaps end with another sentence that somehow impressed on me when someone said, "God grant us today enough patriots who are willing to sacrifice at least part of their comfort for the same values and thus ensure our nation's future." As a matter of fact, I don't support the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you very much. So I think that at least some of the discussions have gone in a direction that is not the most acceptable, especially when it comes to stigmatising those who are not believers. It's about atheism being mentioned in some kind of peorative image, and at least some of us just don't accept it. Everyone should have the same right to confess his conscience and to any other confession and should not have to mention any specific thoughts in a peorative sense. Those who support the adoption of these two amendments do not want to eliminate anyone else, but simply [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Well, in terms of red numbers, I'm saying that really, without anger and over-absorbing, we could accept these two arguments that were [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u45	The time for discussion has really run out, Mr. Rezman. Excuse me! [[Talking to each other.]] Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I don't know. I think there's been some kind of misunderstanding. I understood earlier that Mr Jerovšek had been politicising the position of the LDS, which clearly stated that we do not support this addition in Article 20, which in fact establishes a special status, a special position for priests or monks. For the sake of principle, because we believe that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is still in force and that it contains Article 14, which speaks of all of us being equal before the law. In fact, one social layer is highlighted here if we say that we are giving him a special, privileged position. We believe that this is contrary to the Constitution. And I'd like to say this. Neither do I have anything against the Roman Catholic Church or against the priests. I don't know if I'm going to have to stress this in every law. For we are now faced with a series of laws where we try to establish a special, privileged position for priests. Today we will consider another such law, the law on the police, and so on. In doing so, I say, this article also mentions the offence of hostile propaganda, article 118 of the former SFRY Penal Code, under which he was convicted and served a year and a half for my father. My old uncle, who was a priest, also suffered from irregularities in the previous regime. But we don't mess around here. We write the law here. And we are obliged as Members to abide by the Constitution, which speaks of the fact that laws must also be written in such a way that we are all equal before it. And that's all this is about. So, please, don't push some agendas and some backgrounds that aren't there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Did you want a replica or do you answer for the debate? Okay, thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u48	I think Slovenians and Slovenians can get the wrong message today if they listen to this debate. The wrong message, which goes in the direction that to this day some people do not even have the protection of legality in this country. I understand that we are not all lawyers, but that does not mean that we have to tell the people that there is no legitimacy of rehabilitation in this country. Nor should we overlook that this law, as it is now prepared, wants to introduce differences between peoples. Someone should have a better position than others, because the possibility of demanding the protection of legality because of any violation of the law they have, because the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia can enforce it. The communication of such a prepared law is just one thing that some will now have more opportunities and differences will be created between people, because at least such a prepared proposal of the law says that priests in principle, some, do not have - those who do not have offspring should in some way assume the role of a relative and thus have the right to demand the protection of the rule of law. Public prosecutors can already do what you now impose on the Church and thus create differences; the differences between those who do not have offspring for such and other reasons either because of infertility or because they have made up their mind, or for other reasons they do not have such a civil "backgraund" as in this case the Church could do what the Church will now do. Then why can't a society, say, I don't know the Union of Fighters, have the same extended right that you've prepared here. But I understand, the public administration has hired a lot of educated and subdued people, so probably also such a package of such enlargements that are - and this is the only thing we can be interested in and can ask ourselves - unequal and even unconstitutional. For this reason, attention should be paid at least to paragraph 20, paragraph 3, in this way, as proposed in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I'll try very hard to stick to it. I won't use the rules of procedure. So once again, I say that in the Slovenian National Party, we will support the law if the amendment to Article 20 is also adopted. And with regard to Article 20, I also insist, and my colleague and colleagues of the Slovenian National Party - the opinion of the parent working body, because the parent working body is made up of so many and so many members. And anyone who is an integral part of the parent working body, the Committee on Internal Policy or Justice, and who expresses his opinion, is also an opinion of the parent working body, and this is not about honesty, dishonesty, naivety or naivety. The opinion of the parent’s working body is every sentence, every sentence spoken by each member of this parent’s working body. And we've just said what we think is right from the opinions of the parent's working body, so there won't be any misunderstandings. A respected colleague, respectful, expressed an opinion that I peacefully refer to as the opinion of my mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment or proposed draft law, which is also related to Article 20, is, in conjunction with the Constitution and with that article, which deals with equality before the law, I understand in fact as the legal basis for such enforcement. Now that we have a new constitution, we ensure equality before the law for those who, at the time of the proceedings, did not have procedures, and I see just the opposite, as Mrs Beblerov argued.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. So I agree with those who say the message could be wrong from today's debate. Indeed, the fact is that it is some general situation in society that I think sometimes - sometimes, the emphasis is on sometimes - really gives the impression that something is wrong. See, this case in particular shows that, on the basis of another legal situation in another country, there was another legal order, it was called revolutionary law, but there were some injustices. Okay. These are facts, and we probably all agree on that. Of course, injustices happened when there was something revolutionary, because no revolution was good. And first, we have wronged someone or we have wronged someone, and now that we're building another society, when we're building a different law, when we're also rejecting such extraordinary phenomena, we're kind of starting to talk about equality before the law, before the constitution, if you're going to tell those we've done or experienced injustices, we're going to end this injustice, and now they're privileged. Please! That probably doesn't make sense. So that I don't knit too much, I'll tell you a specific case. Dr. Jozet Pučnik was deprived of his diploma because of that law, which is even strange, he didn't get a job, especially because he was a sociologist, it was particularly verified, he didn't get a job, and at that time, in that country virtually everyone got the job he wanted. What else did he have left? He went abroad. There he again made a diploma, saying he re-educated what he had already studied with us, in order to get the knowledge he already had abroad, in another country, and when, after the changes we experienced in Slovenia, political changes, he returned to Slovenia, and now those who probably did wrong him most shouted: "Listen, man, where were you before?".. Please, if this is not a duplicity, but if this is not really part of the treatment of equality before the constitution, just not in the sense that we have heard here today, but probably in some other sense. We have to get back to the beginning, we have to get back to the cause, not the consequences! If we have wronged someone and are now correcting their wrongs, do not say that they are now privileged! What about when the injustice happened to him? Who then had a privileged position? What position did he have? In this context, we need to look at the matter, and in the end, it does not matter what it says or what it says. If such discussions continue, you will send from here a bad message about some privileged people who are not at all. Part of being privileged at all because they are not even equal because they have been wronged. And in this context, I look at these solutions that are ahead of us. We have to skip some time period and stand up at that time. Now, thank God, there are different times and some things are being fixed and we will have to do this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much. In the Socialist Group of Members, we assumed that any debate on this article would result in an unacceptable reaction such as it is today. That is why we have also seriously thought about whether or not to table amendments and have decided not to submit them. Because we have estimated that the question of whether this is of greater benefit or greater harm. But I am glad that they have been invested and that what we have talked about has been confirmed. But I'd like to say something else, my respectable colleague and colleague! Neither do you, who thus impale on the cross those who have tabled the amendment, move around certain facts. Firstly, apart from some additional offences which have been newly opened in this article - whether justified or not - I do not wish to judge - the possibility of legal certainty and the renewal of the procedure was already possible for all or most of the offences. It's been a few years. Two years, a few years, that's two years. Why now, after 8 years, since the deadline ended in 1997 in 31.12., this government thinks, without saying in explanation how many such cases there are, why and, like, that this deadline should be reopened, I don't know; but we didn't want to argue that anyone would say, "Don't let the injustices be corrected." Once again, however, this possibility was and whoever he wanted was about two years old and had a little more opportunity to take advantage of it through the state prosecutor or through himself and his close relatives. There's another thing to know here. These things are related to moral rehabilitation - which is right. They're also connected to material rehabilitation, please! We have a law on the correction of injustices, which, to all those who have been wrongfully sentenced through judicial proceedings, has the right to material compensation. And not just those in cases of judicial judgment, but a lot of them. You know we've had discussions about this and we've had different opinions and we have them today. And we are some, too, personally, of the opinion that there have been many domestic work done on this committee. There were serious warnings about this, but never a conclusion. It's a shame to rediscover something, but I'll tell you that we have a different opinion here. It is no wonder, then, that consideration is when new questions like this are raised. We only put them on material assets. We wanted to point out that, for the first time, it is incorrect that the government does not say that this will also cost the budget. He can't say a million, two, five-- he can't! But not to say that it will, it's incorrect and it's not true. We wanted to say that this government has completely different criteria. In some cases, it reopens rights; in other cases, it wishes to take rights already in question. Let's be aware of that! And I think that's a good thing to say. And then don't say that those who warn about certain problems are ideological. No, this government is also ideologies. Therefore, please, let us be realistic in this assessment and evaluate the proposals, as they were given, but not immediately attributed to them a negative sound. According to this logic, someone who thinks differently from what this ruling coalition thinks today must not think, must not say so, must not make a proposal because he will be accused or convicted of coming from another belief or opinion. All of us, colleagues and colleagues, have been equally elected, we have a multilateral system, we have our own programmes and we have the right to an opinion. Anyone who tries to charge this against this account - and this is what you do and insult - works against the principle of equality by the constitution. If you think you're going to scare someone away from their opinions, then you're wrong. But I do not think it is good for the National Assembly to go into an ideological battle on every matter, even if some amendment is a completely well-intentioned and realistic day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much. After all the explanations given, I must say that I insist once again that this is at least a matter of deliberation. And I am also firmly convinced that those who cheat, most of them, are very well aware of what they are defending. Because my predecessor just said it caused unacceptable reactions. Defending the right to rehabilitation is unacceptable for some! This seems completely depraved to me and absolutely cannot be said in this context about unacceptable reactions if you defend a right that is a fundamental right. And not to say that it is - maybe it has been the possibility of this rehabilitation for two years, but do you think the state prosecutors are able to file this for every concrete case? That's not possible even if they had the will. And don't say that this option exists and that everyone will be rehabilitated, because that's simply not possible. We do know, however, that there are certainly many public prosecutors who do not have a political interest, in fact - or justice on many occasions, because it is firm in the defence position of some and the permanent forgetfulness of certain acts. And once again, in some cases you speak, you screamed and screamed about the genocide case. Today I invite you to submit an interpretation so that we can clear up who was right in front of the Slovenian public! Was the minister right there, or were you who defended, some genocide on all possible cruises and after press conferences and deceived the Slovenian public. And there's something like that going on here. And look, I am not defending anyone, but I am firmly in the position that the right to rehabilitate, those who have been convicted under such revolutionary legislation and have been wronged. And I don't know how to rehabilitate a case that I know was some priest who was collecting funds to rebuild the church. And then the Uba did some kind of investigation, they found the money, they locked it up, they convicted him of collecting money unjustifiably from people, and he blackmailed people, and I don't know what kind of charges all of it took a couple of years, they destroyed all of it, they trashed it with manure, he didn't have any relatives, and neither did anyone -- yes, that religious community I have the right to say it was wrong?Oh, my God! And now you're talking about the ones that are "more equal." Do you not mind, those - including Dara, when she was in some world for human rights in the previous system - that there were many who were substantially less equal in the long years! And now we want those who were less equal to each other to not even be able to be punished by criminal convictions. And I do not agree with such logic, with such dual morality. And I'm not going to refer to my family ties, but just because I want to be principled -- when it was said there. I doubt everyone's history was in principle. I can tell myself he was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will try to be concrete and discuss the amendments to Article 20. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u61	Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u62	No, no, Mrs. Shirtz, I've raised my hand substantially before you, and you've raised your hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u63	No, no, you want a procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u64	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u65	Excuse me. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u66	I would like to ask the President if at this point we can get an answer to the thesis that has just been given to defend or advocate genocide in the National Assembly. Please let my previous interlocutor explain what he meant by this and clear up such a very serious accusation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. First, I'd like to try a discussion with my colleague, Dr. Pavliha. A similar case, and I don't think he's from any of his emotions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u69	Mr. Bajc, your time is up. I can't give you another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u71	Please, if you take this into account in your application, because it is difficult to follow all of this, I will tell the complications and at the same time a minute or a second indicator. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who's been reported for discussion? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In view of that, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u73	I'm sorry to say this again. Mrs Shirca, you have asked a procedural question, you have not received an answer to this procedural question, I cannot wait until I know how long it will be for the answer to be given. There is no answer, so we continue the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. But I stopped by because I was going to respond indirectly to this complication. Yesterday, when we had - well, there was a debate and it was said that ministers were Time Ministers. Where were you then when you were talking about an enemy speech in the State Parliament, and you would ask who was a timer, why was he a timer? But when we are discussing and constantly demanding, explain what you mean by that, say what you mean, why you said that, we will collect signatures because the hate speech is spreading: When you insult everything on the average, I will not list everything that the same person said that talked about the timepieces a good month ago, but I will write it down once I count it all. Where were you then, all those who cared? All right, worry, just don't have double standards; when you insult, you have time ministers, you know, in the previous composition, when we were in the opposition, we never thought of anything like that. Not once! We did not use such expressions; we were sharp, we were strict, but we never did. And you keep telling us that we're hurting, but I don't know what's going on. Please, let's have the same criteria, nothing else, just this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Well, I very much respect all the views, the different views that appear, and I think it's right that they appear, and it doesn't seem right for me that one side is saying that the other side is accusing, because it would be right for them to admit that the other side is at least as much accusing the first page. Well, if I go to the content. I believe that the essence of the rule of law is to ensure the equality of all and also to ensure that the injustices that occur in life, then also on the basis of the rule of law, and that everyone has the right to rehabilitation. Now, in this particular case, that is exactly what this is about. A specific group of people is specifically concerned with representatives of registered religious communities - does not speak of the law on the Roman Catholic Church, as it is constantly trying to imply, but talks about registered religious communities - and these communities have in fact no such status in the past that these rights can be exercised. And I think that it is right and that we should all advocate that this group, which so far has not been able to claim this opportunity and that it is equivalent to all others. So it goes the other way around as it's trying to argue here; it's about ensuring this equality by this definition. The second case is a similar case when the number of beneficiaries is extended to apply for the protection of the law. We can talk about where this circle extends, but it is about people who have not been able to enforce the correction of injustice and the right to rehabilitation because they are already dead because their immediate descendants are already deceased and I think it is right to ensure that these or their descendants are also within this limit, as is stipulated here, that the right to remedy injustice and the right to rehabilitation be exercised. I also respect those debaters who have said that if the narrowest descendants oppose this correction of the injustices and the rights to rehabilitation, then this will be determined in the proceedings before the competent court, because it would probably not make sense for the distant descendants to enforce something that the immediate descendants do not want. But it's a matter of procedure. It is right that, if this is not the case, this could occur in a few small cases, but in all other cases this right could be exercised and ensured in this way. It is right to ensure the equality of all. I therefore argue that these two amendments preclude the equality of all and do not allow those who so far have not been granted these equalitys to ensure this equality. And that's why I can't support such amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Mark Pavlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I don't think I'm in favor of overadvertising, but there's something I'd like to say. By the way, if we've already quoted two or three articles of the Constitution, I'm going to quote 82 more. In the first paragraph, if I'm not mistaken, it says "we are representatives of all the people." Do you think that when we are like this our electorates and voters and, of course, all citizens listen to us, do you think they don't care when we accuse ourselves all the time that we are one and the other, that we are left and right, that we are red and white, patriots and partisans, former, present, opposition and position. I think they've got us all the way up here. And when, for God's sake, will we at least be able to forget some of these differences? Those who are younger, of course, speak politically, and we are not burdened with the past, so we have no problem. And only when we are able to blow the same horn in those fundamental matters - not least after all, criminal legislation is one of those key laws - will it be better for all our citizens and citizens. And if I can get back to my case, and I didn't want to say that before, maybe that's more when we talk about the victims on Friday. No matter what happened, our family, no matter what suffering we endured, is angry today. That's right, that's looking to the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u80	I apologize for saying before that I will not talk about the content of the proposals. Given that genocide was mentioned and even worse, only three cases would I say, as I am experiencing them, but I did not make an amendment and the LDS did not give it. Look, three crimes are being reopened, which have resulted in criminal convictions, even in 1945 and in 1955 in 1960 and so on. The first is failure to obey orders or renounce obedience in the military - unfair. Second, refusal to accept or use weapons, third, disobedience to enlist military service. I do not argue that, in specific cases, a criminal judgment could not have been handed down because the procedure was improperly guided. But if you're going to convince me that these are crimes that were banned in America in 1950 or 1945, and even when they went to Korea in Vietnam and so on - in short, we want to evaluate something through today's eyes. I agree. In 1991, we declared JLA an enemy army. But to say that it was for every citizen of Yugoslavia in 1945, this is simply today, ladies and gentlemen, you are making this up. And then there are some solutions that aren't completely premeditated. And then we kind of want to share and to do things in some way. That's not good, so leave it to normal to discuss such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Here you go, government representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe I could just take it for a second. The fact is that this exceptional deadline for lodging claims for the protection of legality is limited only to those judgments which became binding until 2 July 1990 when the Declaration of Sovereignty of the State of the Republic of Slovenia entered into force. It is simply that those who have been unlawfully, unlawfully and unjustly convicted are given the opportunity to apply for the protection of legality. Because of the high time frame of events, especially the post-World War II period, many beneficiaries are, unfortunately, already deceased. Therefore, in order to be able to apply for the protection of the legality of their relatives by side to the third generation, it is possible to request that those people who have been unlawfully and illegally convicted be rehabilitated. In view of this, it would have been based on a historical fact, as many historians have pointed out, that by the end of 1945 at least 95 priests had been convicted and only 10% were rehabilitated. By the end of 1961, some 400 other priests had been convicted, and to this day they had been rehabilitated because of illegal and illegal convictions of the former system of things of less than 100. Therefore, in the event of an extension to relatives of a lateral type, as well as in the case of an extension of the possibility to submit these applications to representatives of all registered religious communities, it should also be pointed out that they may submit these requests for rehabilitation only after the death of the convicted person. In addition, it should be pointed out that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has taken a position or found that the deadline for the submission of these requests was too short from 1.1.1995 until 31 December 1996. I would therefore like to conclude by stressing that the bill you are considering today and proposed by the Government is by no means a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution, which requires equal treatment of everyone before the law. Just as you are considering a bill, it is possible to submit a request for rehabilitation to all those who have been unlawfully and illegally convicted in the former communist system.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.39 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE NOTARIAT LAW - A SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Secretary of State, Marolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. By amending and supplementing the Notariat Act by means of a reduced procedure - these are minor changes to the law that do not relate to the content, scope and manner of the provision of notary services, but will affect the ease of accessibility to the performance of the notary profession, the further speedy resolution of disciplinary proceedings against notaries and the faster decision of the court in deciding on matters of appointment and discharge of notaries, which is all in the public interest. The adoption of amendments to the law pursues the following two objectives. First, greater accessibility to the Notary profession, and secondly, the elimination of certain uncertainties and shortcomings in the legal text which have in practice caused difficulties, which mainly relate to the duration of the procedures for the appointment and discharge of notaries and disciplinary procedures. First time. The conditions for appointment to a notary place relating to the way in which practical experience is obtained in legal works are changed. By amending the law, it will be necessary to obtain at least one year of practical experience from the prescribed five years after the legal examination, either from the notary or from the lawyer, the court, the State Prosecutor's Office or the State Attorney's Office. It is therefore an equivalent treatment of fully comparable acquired professional work experience. Furthermore, the term 'notary candidate' is changed to 'notary assistant' as it will no longer be training in notary, but for notary employment. A transitional arrangement is also duly regulated that those notary candidates who have so far met the conditions for replacing the notary may also replace the notary as notary assistants. Then, by amending the law, a selection procedure for appointment to a notary post shall be established, more transparent and, in essential characteristics, equal to the selection procedure, which makes sense under the law on public servants. This is a procedure in which the professional competence and suitability of the candidates will be checked and carried out by a special commission appointed by the Minister. Candidates will be excluded after the completed stages of the procedure in which the documentation can be reviewed, interviewed orally or given a written examination of their qualifications. The oral interview with the candidates will also be open to the Minister himself. No later than seven days after the completion of the selection procedure, the Commission will have to report to the Minister on the suitability of the candidates applied for. Furthermore, the procedure for the appointment and discharge of the notary shall set a time limit for the lodging of an action in an administrative dispute of 15 days and a time limit for the decision of the Court of First Instance and II. in the case of an administrative dispute, the rates shall be limited and the court shall decide within 30 days. The procedure for determining a notary for the replacement of a notary at an vacant notary place during the appointment or discharge procedure shall then be laid down; the conditions and periods of appointment of a member of the disciplinary court appointed by the Minister of Justice shall be specified and the disciplinary procedure shall be expressly laid down against the notary, the notary assistant and the notary trainee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Our committee also considered this bill at its 12th meeting, on 5 October 2005. In the context of the supplementary explanation of the articles of the draft law, the representative stressed that the law had two main objectives: to make it more accessible to the Notary profession and to address some of the uncertainties and shortcomings of the legal text which had in practice caused problems, notably the longevity of the procedures for the appointment and discharge of the notary and disciplinary procedures. In the course of the discussion, he also provided clarifications on the comments made by the Notary Chamber and responded to questions raised by members of the Committee. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the comments made by this service in their written opinion, which mainly referred to the internal compatibility of the law, were duly taken into account by the proposals for amendments to the Committee prepared by the Ministry and submitted to the meeting itself. Proposals for amendments to the Committee were also adopted at the meeting. In the context of the presentation of their opinion, the invited representatives of the Notary Chamber presented their opinion and the proposal to introduce a new notary examination as a condition for the appointment of a notary, which would require a large number of notary candidates, in order to make notaries the most qualified. This proposal was not agreed by both the majority of the members of the Committee and the proposer, since none of the current notaries passed a notary examination. However, members of the selection committee will be able to verify the professional competence of notary candidates during the selection process, for example by compiling individual typographical notary records or by checking their other practical notary knowledge as part of the written examination. The applicant pointed out in particular that, in addition to adequate professional competence, one of the mandatory conditions for the appointment of a notary is that a person is also worthy of public confidence in the management of a notariat. This condition also gives the Minister the right, as well as the duty to propose a person worthy of public confidence. It follows from the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on the political system that it supports the law, however, that it appears to them that a condition of five years of practical experience in legal works after the legal examination for the appointment of a notary is required, particularly due to the long waiting periods for the exercise of judicial training. In the debate, the members of the Committee highlighted in particular Article 4 of the draft law governing the procedure for selecting the appointment of notaries. Some members considered that the selection process was open, that it was not sufficiently defined and that the words "or other form" were not specific. We have received explanations from the bill's proposer that the procedure for appointing a notary, as proposed, is very objective and also transparent, in contrast to the existing law in force, and that the text "or other form" means either a re-examination, or a re-examination of the written test, or the re-acquiring of additional documentation on the experience of the notary candidate's experience. Thus, the members and members of the Committee supported the proposals received for the amendment of the Committee, as well as all other articles of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Hvauc, SDS, has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Notariat is a public service and thus part of the judiciary. Of course, notaries must be adequately trained and especially worthy of public confidence. The purpose of the notary is to relieve the courts or judicial authorities, and in particular to increase the legal security of parties in civil matters. In the past, in some individual cases it has happened that - which of course we can't say in any way that it's a mass phenomenon or a general phenomenon - this general public trust has been shaken. There have been some affairs in which parties, rather than receiving greater legal certainty, have been harmed or in a very unpleasant situation, particularly because of the lax or even unprofessional part of notaries. In individual cases where it has been evident that there has been poor work by notaries, notary candidates or trainees, the existing arrangements did not allow for any effective and rapid decision-making and action in disciplinary proceedings. I would also like to say that the regulation so far has limited the number of Notary cities by also limiting accessibility to the Notary profession. This is a large number of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have maintained in the conviction that it is a narrow circle of individuals who gain, once entering a circle of dedicated, rather safe and favourable positions. However, such an impression of privilege is reflected by the relatively high revenues of at least some notaries, which, of course, we can also see publicly on these various top scales of those who have reported the largest income forecast in Slovenia. And, of course, there is a sense that the Notary profession allows one disproportionate well-being compared to others, who also have to carry out their work in a professional and committed manner, and it also adds to the reputation and trust of this notariat. This latter has improved by lowering notary tariffs, some even largely, and by allowing this wider circle to be used to a greater extent. As for other matters, however, they are solving the proposed amendments to this law that we have before us. One such new solution is to expand the way in which practical experience is gained, where this is somehow released and allows experience to be gained in other areas, which will increase the number of potential candidates for these jobs or for these jobs. The selection process of notaries is complemented and a faster disciplinary procedure is introduced, and it is also a very important, direct supervision of the operation of notaries by the Ministry of Justice. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that some changes to the law are necessary, perhaps because of individual cases, but however the system cannot be such as to allow some strange situations to occur in isolated cases. And since we believe that the proposed changes will help to improve the functioning of the notariat and greater legal certainty of the parties, we will also support this proposal in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar, New Slovenia has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u90	A notariat was reinstated 10 years ago in order to relieve the courts. Thus, the State transferred to the private sphere certain powers that it had previously exercised through the judiciary. Thus, the merifactic purpose of conferring powers on notaries for the issuance of public documents is on the one hand preventive justice, on the other hand we can call it the unloading of the courts. Under the judicial system, 19 out of 25 EU members there, in 19, are therefore notable parts of the judiciary and judicial bodies, with a view to creating an important contribution to the legal security of citizens and also of legal entities, and it is in the general interest, in particular with regard to the performance of tasks delegated by law. In order to ensure the quality, protection and legal certainty of the user, a certain degree of regulation is required. For notary services, however, there must be a typical proximity to citizens or legal persons, which also requires a balanced regulation of the Notary profession. The Constitutional Treaty for Europe also states as a political objective that effective access to law must be ensured, so prices for citizens must also be predictable and achievable. The first step was taken here. The Ministry of Sturm has already regulated this change in the notary tariff by reducing the notary tariffs. The next step is to work here today as a legislative body in support of the proposed law on changes and additions to the law on notariat, which is supported by the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party. There is a need for an extensive supply of these public notary services. For this reason, we also support the necessary identification of a larger number of Notary cities. The number of notary seats will be determined in accordance with the proposal for a law directly on the basis of the statutory criteria, the area of the district court in relation to the concentration of the population and the intensity of economic activity. In these ten years, notary powers have been created and, given the social change and its involvement, if I only mention participation in the establishment of companies, property transformation, has also collected the cream of this profession, of course, in accordance with the provisions of the law and the previous notary tariff. It is therefore high time that these things are also normalized in this area by changes in the law. According to the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Parliamentary Group, the partial opening and partial competitiveness of this profession will have positive effects. It is therefore necessary to liberalise the Notary Services market, to increase the number of notary cities, which also means greater accessibility to their services. The amendment will also make it more accessible to the Notary profession, since the bill makes mandatory one-year practice in the Notary equivalent to one-year experience in the Court, the Lawyer, the State Attorney's Office or the State Attorney's Office and includes in five years the practical experience required for the Notary after the legal examination. However, before appointment for notary, the qualifications for the work of the notary will be checked by the Minister by a certain commission, which can also carry out a written examination of knowledge with the notary. In order to avoid delaying the appointment of notaries due to complaints by unelected candidates, we also support a new solution for the administrative court to have a shorter time limit for the decision, as well as for the Supreme Court. The practice of all in sky-driving cases has also shown that shorter and more transparent procedures for the resolution of the notary need to be laid down, a precise moment of discharge is set and the existence of certain discharge reasons can also be determined by the Ministry of Justice instead of the Slovenian Chamber of Notaries. The Ministry will also be able to supervise the functioning of the bodies of the Slovenian Chamber of Notarys. We are confident that the bill will also increase legal certainty in Slovenia, so we will support it in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kangler, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members of the Government! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Notariat Act will be fully supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Although this is a less difficult issue to deal with, the procedure for appointing notaries is extremely important. This could at least be based on some of the affairs that have taken place in recent years in which some notaries have been involved. It should be noted that it is important that public confidence in the Notary in Slovenia is extremely important in our view and that it needs to be strengthened and raised to a slightly higher level than it has been so far. Of course, people often wonder to what extent it is necessary for notaries to be trusted, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, that notaries should be given their opportunity and opportunity also with this novelty, and the notary should be trusted because they perform a very important task in legal, formal, certain proceedings, either in court or in some other state bodies. Perhaps one of the reasons is the procedure for appointing a notary. Up until now, the procedure for appointing notary has been inadequate. Following the amendment of the law, which we are going to decide on today, this procedure is objective and, of course, it is also more clearly defined. The selection procedure will be followed by new members of the commission to be appointed by the Minister responsible for justice. The procedure will thus allow for more forms of verification of the suitability and professional competence of candidates, and this will increase transparency and transparency of candidates mainly in the appointment process. Once again, Members will support this amendment of the Notariat Act and we expect the reputation of notary in the future in Slovenia to rise to a slightly higher level than it has been so far, because they are worthy of this trust, regardless of certain individual cases in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u94	Respectable present. It would be difficult to oppose the bill before us today. With the changes offered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, we agree. We would be more than happy to accept the restrictions or stronger interventions to the 1995 roofing law, which has been reprinted four times. That was the first time. Another time. I will not talk about the positive features of this law, because you have cited them both as a government representative and as the chairman of the committee, and after all political parties who have presented their views. I would like to stress only one point, which has been raised both by the government representative and by some representatives of political parties, that through this law we will increase confidence in notariat, that it is the task of the government and that it is the task of the legislative branch of government, that is to say Parliament, to increase confidence in notaries - I think this is a mistaken assumption. If we build on this kind of theory, so that through law we raise the reputation of notaries, that through political parties we raise the reputation of notaries and that through government we raise the reputation of notaries, it is wrong. In my opinion, notaries have to raise their own views, if they don't look, it's their fault, and it's their job to raise their reputation in our society. Just as a supplement and as a member of the Slovenian National Party's Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman, DeSUS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Although the history of notariat in more modern history does not have a very long beard, some of these things, events, either related to individual notaries or to the Notary Chamber, have accumulated in some who have already had a good reputation. The essence of the notary service, however, is that it must protect legal certainty and that it must actually be a personification of public trust, so it is not surprising that the proposaler has decided on certain legislative changes and let me say that we support most of this in the DeSUS Group as well. For the future, this will be achieved in such a way that the appointment and resolution of notaries will be otherwise and in more detail, in order to require greater expertise and greater selectivity in the selection process and that services will be available both price- and locally easier for those who are their users. Better control of the functioning of individual organs in the Notary Chamber is also envisaged, and we also support this. However, we have some comments or concerns regarding those provisions that have already been mentioned today, which concern in particular, for the first time, one-year experience, either with notaries or with prosecutors, or with any other body and here we follow the comments of the Notary Chamber, which we believe to be correct. Perhaps all these experiences do not show a complete balance, but the proposal on the working body did not receive support. We think that's bad. Secondly, what we think is bad is that the suspension power has determined that in the selection process the first three steps, namely the examination of the documentation, the written test and the oral interview, can also replace other forms. Since it is written that we are talking about 'or other forms', we estimate that this is too arbitrary to give too many opportunities to skip the first three or even suspend the first three steps. "Or" is an alternative; it means either one form or another. And this "or" gives the opportunity to simply skip the first, second and third steps. This "but" didn't add up to the right three steps, this "or" also allows it to be just another. What is very indefinable for us, which is written in very general form and definition, is why the proposaler did not present. It is true, however, that at the meeting of the home working body, the Secretary of State tried to explain what that "or" means and "or other forms" in such a way as to assess that those "or other forms" mean the possibility of repeating the first three steps: to verify the documentation again, to re-examine the written examination or to have another oral interview. Of course, this is not apparent from the written explanation and we repeat that if so, then it should be written instead of "or" "also other forms" and define them and this should be clearly written in such a way as to make it known that it is a repetition, i.e. to carry out the same tests in another later period. Since this is not the case, we estimate that this is fairly plausible, that it is too little defined, that there can be different interpretations and that these different interpretations can also mean slightly less legal certainty and greater arbitration. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we regret that this has not been completed or completed, which is no reason to oppose this law as a whole and we will still support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.39. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents after the cut-off procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Here you are, Minister, Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u98	Dear Mr. Vice President! Messengers and Members! The government is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters was adopted in 2003 and the law regulates the conditions and manner in which funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia can be used to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The purpose of the law is to regulate the acquisition of State aid to victims of natural disasters by ensuring that they stay and resume their activities as soon as possible, if they have been damaged or destroyed by objects, installations or land, or if their goods are threatened by natural disasters, or if they are prevented from using things because of damaged road and other infrastructure. The current law also lays down the conditions and modalities for the use of State budget funds and the conditions and modalities for their allocation in order to remedy the consequences of damage to agriculture caused by natural disasters. In the implementation of this Act, the need to pay advance payments in cases of agricultural damage has been demonstrated, even before final injury assessments have been established with a view to mitigating the long-term effects of natural disasters on agricultural areas as soon as possible or to mitigate as far as possible the long-term consequences of natural disasters. The second conclusion, as well as the resolution of the law, was that the payment of advance payments was due to agricultural damage. It was concluded that it was necessary to establish the possibility that, in the case of overpayments, its difference would be returned within three years of the date of its payment to the State budget and, if there was a new natural disaster at that time, that difference would be included in the possible payment of funds to remedy the consequences of the new natural disasters. The proposal for amendments to the law also eliminates the confusion of provisions relating to the consideration of other payments to remedy the consequences of natural disasters in calculating the amount of funds paid in agriculture. Some additions to the proposed text of the law submitted by the Government for consideration were also drawn up during the hearing at the approval of the National Assembly and also with the assistance of the expert services of the National Assembly. Thus, in the first paragraph of Article 37 in force, the amount of advance payments for agricultural damage was limited to 20% of the estimated direct damage, in the new paragraph 5 of Article 40 of the Law, including on the initiative of the Agri-Agricultural Chamber, a new criterion for the minimum amount of State aid paid for agricultural damage and the minimum amount of aid paid in agriculture must be greater than the average amount allocated by the State to the individual beneficiary for the description and assessment of the damage caused by natural disasters. And another change. In the seventh paragraph of Article 40 of the Act, a new provision is added, under which also in the irrigation area damage due to drought is paid if no irrigation water was available. The proposed law will also regulate the relations arising from overpaid pre-payments for damage in the drought in 2003. While I have been reading the material of both the Environment and Space Committee and the working body concerned, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, it states that the promise or commitment of the Minister is, therefore, me, that some of the conclusions on the very functioning of the system law will make a change by the end of this year. When I went to see the stenogram, I predicted that this would happen during the winter. As winter ends in the first months of next year, this deadline will also be tied to the first months of 2006 when we, together with the experts and those most affected by this law, also prepare some systemic changes to the applicable law. Members and Members, I propose that you adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Petan, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u100	Just a moment, please. Thank you for your word, but I apologize for this misunderstanding. At its 5th regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the Environment and Space addressed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which was sent by the Government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal to deal with it following a reduced procedure, since it is a matter of less difficult changes. At its 35th meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposed law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Representatives of the proposer of the draft law, the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service of the National Assembly took part in the meeting. In addition to the basic material, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture and Forestry and Food, the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on Agriculture and Forestry and on nutrition and the agri-land chambers of Slovenia. Following the examination of that proposal, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made comments to certain articles of this proposed law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as an interested working body, focused on questions relating mainly to the level of advance payments to address the consequences of damage in agriculture and the criteria on the basis of which a three-year period is proposed for the recovery of these funds into the State budget. On the basis of the opinion of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the discussion of the members of the Committee, he proposed to the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body in the adoption of the amendments to Articles 3 and 4. This is the Agriculture Committee. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supported the proposals and proposals of the agri-agricultural chamber in the debate. It also agreed to support the proposal for a mutual insurance law establishing a risk fund for agriculture. In the context of the second reading of the draft law, the Committee on Environment and Space, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, held a discussion and vote on the individual articles of the law and on the amendments tabled, and adopted its amendments. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the opinions of the agri-economic chamber and the debate at the Committee's meeting, the Committee adopted the following amendments to Article 1, Article 3, Article 4, as of Article 5. In the light of the amendments adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which is also an integral part of the report, is prepared. A rapporteur would also be appointed at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is Mr. Geza Juban, LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. We will not oppose the bill in the Liberal Democracy Club. The reasons for the adoption or amendment of the applicable law are stated in order to ensure that the affected persons receive and resume their activities as soon as possible, as announced by Mr Minister. The main purpose of the bill is to make rapid advances, paybacks, extension to municipalities and state authorities, and some additions that have taken place on the home work bodies. Of course, we are not opposed to all the solutions and changes that have taken place. Nevertheless, we estimate that, given this year's events, which are likely to make the change possible, it would not be necessary to remedy the situation already in the existing law and the changes that are ahead of us. The enlargements themselves to state authorities and municipalities are largely covered in one way or another by the state budget and will happen in all cases. Some parts of the text that are cited in the bill's amendment, such as requoting to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, are logical and are already cited in the title of the law itself as addressing the consequences of natural disasters. Returns that have been saved this time or are supposed to have been saved in three years - they seem too long and it is pointless to burden the affected for three years, especially since it is possible to make payments in one consistent part of the advance so that no return can then occur. We have some amendments ahead of us. We have on the table amendments of the Social Democrats, which we consider to be meaningful and would suggest support. We will support them and then, in the end, we will fully support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone, especially the Minister! The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Disasters is a response to the events that have taken place in Slovenia in the recent period following a number of ventures, and we note that the law extends the concept of natural disaster, including the dwellings and things maintained by state authorities and municipalities, and the law seeks to provide, in particular, rapid assistance to vulnerable agricultural economies in the form of prepayments and corrects the uncertainty that in the event of natural disasters payments for subsidies are not taken into account as State aid. The very starting point and content is acceptable, and we also want these objectives to be achieved and realized by this law in the Group of Social Democrats. Unfortunately, we note that the law is very superficial and therefore we believe that the objectives provided for in this law are difficult to achieve or can even be threatened. In fact, the law extends its territory to municipal housing and things maintained by the state. However, it does not provide for a procedure whereby aid will also be granted. This means that Minister of the Environment, Mr Podobnik, will be able to decide which municipality he will allocate and how much resources he will allocate to the municipality. The same will happen to state authorities. There are also no criteria on the basis of which funds can be allocated, which means that some state authorities will receive a comparable budget source, which will be solely within the competence of Minister Podobnik. Ambiguities are also involved in the granting of advance payments to the agricultural economies. In fact, the law states that the amount of advance payments should not exceed 20% of the estimated direct damage. "Assessed direct damage to things and on agriculture is estimated damage in accordance with the rules governing protection against natural disasters" - [[It's an explanation in the law.]] . We believe that prepayments must be paid as soon as possible and on the basis of the first grave assessment adopted by the government. As long as we wait for the programme that it foretells and actually commands the law itself, this measure of swift advance payments will be null and void and the law will not achieve the desired goal as it was predicted. Other questions are being asked. Why we are talking about prepayments only in the field of agriculture, why we are not talking about prepayments in the area of crafts, small economies and also larger companies. In fact, it is still a fact that if a craftsman, an entrepreneur or an economic company does not recover its production within a very short period of time, there may be very large economic damage, loss of markets and, last but not least, even the collapse of a craftsman, an entrepreneur or an undertaking. Many times, in our view, the issue of the economy is clearly set out in another plan, and this seems to us to be one of the biggest shortcomings of this law, with the shortcomings already mentioned. Nevertheless, we will try to improve this law, and we have also tabled two amendments which require the regulation to establish a procedure whereby resources to remedy the consequences of natural disasters will be allocated to the municipality and state authorities. At the same time, we delete the provision to allocate funds or advances on the basis of the estimated direct damage. We believe that such a provision in the law is unnecessary, because if the basis is assessed direct damage, the procedure will take too long and the objective of rapid assistance will not be achieved. We hope that the amendments will be adopted, because we believe that this would make the marriage much better.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren, Nova Slovenija has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u106	I wish a good day to all who persist in this Chamber, especially to Minister Podobnik! In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we will support the amendment of the law on the repair of the consequences of natural disasters, although we do not think that it is the best, since the prescribed procedures are still too complicated and complicated. Otherwise, the Minister on the Committee on Agriculture explained that the government will be drafting a new law to remedy the consequences of natural disasters by the end of this year, in which certain procedures will be simplified if European legislation is urgently taken into account in this area. What natural disasters mean, such as floods, floods, or earthquakes, is known only to those who have experienced it themselves. Those who have seen this through television screens have no real feeling about these things. But only those who live on their crops, which, of course, are not. It is in these calamities that a person’s great infirmity manifests itself. When everything that someone invested in was destroyed, when there was no crop that he could collect and sell and thus come to his own profit, there was a man in distress who was certainly very large. And in these cases, both human and state solidarity is the most evident. In these cases, it is also very important to know how quickly the assistance we are giving to the affected is. This river, which quickly does, twice does, is pretty much there. The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters lays down the conditions and manner in which funds from the budget can be used to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and the conditions and manner in which they can be obtained or allocated in order to ensure that relief to victims of natural disasters is provided as soon as possible and that such assistance is as effective as possible. The law also lays down the conditions and modalities for the use of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the conditions and modalities for their allocation in order to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture caused by natural disasters. In the implementation of the law, the need for payment of advance payments has been demonstrated even before the final assessment of the damage has been established, in order to remedy the damage caused by natural disasters as soon as possible or to mitigate to the greatest extent possible the long-term consequences of these natural disasters. In New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we support the proposed law, as the proposed legal solutions introduce the possibility of prompt assistance to vulnerable agricultural economies in the form of prepayments of disaster relief funds and an orderly way of recovery in the event of overpaid state aid to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. So the Members of New Slovenia will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presječnik has the floor, SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Natural disasters are not new, but for various reasons they are becoming more frequent and cause more damage. This National Assembly has dealt with this law several times in previous references, and more than once with intervention laws that allowed the consequences of damage caused by natural disasters to be remedied. The practice and difficulties in the enforcement of the law have shown where the law needs to be drawn up with a view to making it easier and, above all, faster assistance for those affected mainly in the field of agriculture and the recovery of overpaid payments is regulated. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the amendment and amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen, DeSUS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister. When we talk about the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, we regret to note that in the country of Slovenia we pay very little attention to these. So far, analyses have never been so professionally processed that they can be fully satisfied with their results. State aid in this direction has always been almost under-provided, and the costs of critical moments have been overly overlapped in the past. So far, financial assistance has only partially covered the costs of individual injury, as well as this year's July and August losses, which have so far been partially remedied, and the damage caused by storms and floods has been significant. Only by the Ministry of Defence has so far been fairly realistic, the interest of the municipalities and the time of the rehabilitations from individual environments varied so far. The aid and the speed of intervention depended, as much as possible, on the ability of societies, citizens themselves, on the environment where they lived and resided, on the management of individual municipalities, local communities, which were an integral part of the intervention and on the serious prevention of natural disasters occurring year after year in their frequency. In this way, the consequences are hard to recover. In the Democratic Party of Pensioners' parliamentary group, we support the adoption of newly defined legislation with a view to faster and more effective redress of damage that occurs either on infrastructure, on agricultural sites, on forests and meadows, on surfaces, on watercourses, on residential buildings, on land slides in the form of smaller or larger beaches. On the basis of the facts, we support that part of providing funds that will be quick, efficient, which will provide our citizens and citizens with security and the quickest possible coverage of costs in order to remedy the consequences of natural disasters in a given environment. Our Group also believes that there will be a need to provide more resources in future budgets for such and similar purposes, so we support the efforts of the Government, the Slovenian Agricultural and Economic Chambers, the Republic of Slovenia Legislative and Legal Service, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Committee of the National Assembly for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Committee of the National Environment and Space Assembly, which jointly support the decision or proposal for the preparation of the Mutual Insurance Act and the Risk Fund for Agriculture. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that there will be more such and similar environmental impacts in the future, so good cooperation between the ministries of environment and space, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance is essential. So it is absolutely good for the future cooperation between these departments to show in the fact that the problem is being solved at the same time as natural disasters and the exposure of the natural environment to the original state. The results show that in the future there will also be important rapid rescue, the efficiency of professional services in affected municipalities, in well-organised firefighting companies that are able to cope with such problems. The funds we are earmarking for such interventions will also be strictly earmarked for the future. They should serve for good equipment, educational forms that will also provide future guarantees of safe and respectful intervention. By law-defined tasks they deserve the support of our parliamentary group. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Daniel Krivec, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u112	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear government officials! Natural disasters such as those resulting from the operation of uncontrolled natural forces, Slovenia, like most other countries, pose a severe threat and, among other things, cause significant material damage to property and the environment, especially in agriculture. The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents regulates the conditional use of funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and, of course, the conditional means of their acquisition or allocation in order to assist the affected by natural disasters, to ensure that they stay as safely as possible and resume their activities if they have been damaged or destroyed by natural disasters, by installations or land, or if their goods are endangered by natural disasters, or are prevented from using them because of damaged infrastructure. The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters also provides for a conditional method of using the funds provided for in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and a conditional method of granting them to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage caused by disasters. The aim of the bill is to reduce the risk of agricultural holdings from accidents or to mitigate the consequences of natural disasters in agriculture as much as possible. In order to remedy the damage caused by the natural disaster as soon as possible or to minimise the long-term consequences of the natural disaster, the need for payment of advance payments has been demonstrated even before final damage has been determined. The solutions put in place the possibility of prompt assistance to vulnerable agricultural economies in the form of a prepayment of funds to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and regulate the way in which the aid may be recovered in the event of overpayment of State aid. The need for overpayments has been demonstrated several times, which is precisely after the natural disaster on agricultural holdings a great need for financial resources for the preparation of agricultural land for the following crops. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the amendment of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have ended by moving the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 25.10.2005. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you. In considering this law, we have found that, while the scope of this law has extended to municipal housing and to the things managed by state authorities, we find that this extension has occurred in an article that speaks of concepts. Of course, for all other articles that discuss how this law is implemented, it is not a procedure that will allow the municipalities to obtain the funds they need because of the reptiles, the floods, and the fundamental accidents that are taking place. So it is a very vague provision and, of course, it raises the question of how and which congregation will be able to obtain funds and, of course, at what height will it be able to acquire them. This is a very important issue and, therefore, the law should certainly regulate the procedure, if not fully detailed, of course, the regulation should regulate the procedure. Therefore, we also propose that this procedure should be described in detail in the regulation as a sub-legislative provision. In doing so, I should point out that the regulation has already been prepared on the basis of an existing law to remedy the consequences of the renovation of residential buildings, in so far as housing is owned by a person of private law. It is not to be observed in this Regulation for a housing facility owned by a municipality or in the management of a public authority. So we really have a very open question about how the minister will allocate funds to the municipalities, how he will allocate funds to the state authorities, and whether it is not here, of course, for the Minister to decide for himself who and how much money he will get or which congregation he will receive. We want this amendment, of course, to at least commit the Government to prepare a sub-law to remove these doubts, and of course I hope that this amendment is also adopted, so that the Minister will have much easier work to do in which municipality he will allocate the funds and how much he will share them with and, of course, to which national authority. Indeed, we are also convinced that in this way some state authorities can establish a parallel budget source, which, of course, is not right again for other state authorities, and it is also inappropriate here that the Minister himself decides which state authority will receive and how much resources. Therefore, we believe that this amendment is necessary, which would at least send the government to regulate it under the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much. With regard to the amendment just discussed by Mr Weber, I would like to say the following. First of all, I think it is a misunderstanding or a misinterpretation of what is the essence of Article 1. This is not new when we mention residential buildings or things. The essence of Article 1 is to spread and talk about an accident caused by a storm or hail. This is an amendment to Article 1. With regard to housing buildings or things for which a state authority or municipality is entitled under this law, this has already been resolved in the law in force, in Article 17, very clearly, the allocation of funds to the congregation and then accurately states, for example, housing buildings owned by it. So the solution is already in the marriage. This is the first and therefore the Government of the amendment, as the Group of the Social Democrats cannot support it. Otherwise, I might be able to use this debate to make one of the ways we think about how to make marriage simpler, more realistic, to give the minister more power. Now it's all going to the government. The Minister can't decide anything on his own. Maybe it'll be one of the roads you're talking about. Unfortunately, I do not yet have the basis for the law to give the minister more authority to react very quickly, at least in the first few days, weeks after the accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you. I'd like to complete the minister. Thus, the law extends in an article that speaks of concepts, including housing, so that the congregation can also regulate this part of the property in the event that it is damaged by a natural disaster. And our amendment speaks only of the need for municipalities and national authorities to have a regulation laying down in detail the procedure by which the municipalities and state authorities will acquire these funds. The current regulation on how to calculate the amount of resources to deal with the consequences of natural disasters on buildings and dwellings and the amount of mortgages for the renovation of dwellings refers solely to the restoration of residential buildings owned by a private right, but does not refer to the restoration of residential buildings owned by municipalities. And our amendment speaks only of the need to prescribe a detailed procedure in the regulation for the renovation of residential buildings owned by municipalities, as it has done for individuals of private law. Therefore, we believe that this amendment is meaningful, necessary, logical and I do not know what else to say, so that indeed all the criteria we need to implement this law will be comparable to each other, both for individuals of private law and for persons of public law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you. You want a word, mag. Tazes? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I would only explain that under Article 22, the municipality is the recipient of all the funds necessary for the reconstruction. This is the point of the law, so the congregation gets everything that is recognised within the renewal provided for in Article 22(2). This means that this Regulation, which you are referring to, has only exploited those funds which are intended for individuals of private law and do not have to be regulated by any sub-legislative act for the municipality or for a public authority or for a public institution set up by the municipality if it is the owner of the apartment or for any public legal person established by the State or by the municipality. In short, the practice has been shown several times so far - the municipality receives all the funds through transfers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u122	In fact, my question and my thinking is how do we come to the criterion of what is "all the means" that the congregation receives. In particular, for the housing sector, this is not fixed, it is not resolved, and in so far as this procedure would be very clearly defined in the regulation, as for individuals of private law, the municipalities would certainly know whether they have actually received all the funds and whether one municipality has received too much, the other is not sufficient because there are not enough clear rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Tazes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u124	A brief explanation. The disaster recovery programme shall be adopted by the Government. In this reconstruction programme, every house, every facility, every municipality building is certified by a program with a reconstruction project and this project restores the country in its entirety, 100%, pays.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 1. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Common Social Democrats. Who wants a word, please? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Article 3 is one of those articles which is indeed intended to achieve one of the most important objectives of allocating funds to the agricultural economy as soon as possible and therefore provides for payment of advances. However, there is a problem because this, I would say, concept and this solution are included in Article 37 of the existing law, which is very clear on the programme to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture. Which means that if we first draw up a programme to provide funds to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture, then we cannot talk about prepayment, we cannot talk about the rate of allocation of funds and we can talk about the failure of this law to achieve the objective which it has been entered into and which, in fact, is most likely to be adopted by this law. So, an unfortunate solution to try to do so in Article 37, the content of which is a programme to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture. Social Democrats believe that it is necessary to pay the advance on the basis of the first rough estimate adopted by the government on the basis of the basic data it receives from the field by the relevant institutions. And on this basis, the pre-payments will be made. If the programme is to be drawn up, the advance will no longer be an advance and in fact we can talk about the calculated payment or the calculated compensation, and thus, as I have already said, lose that basic objective of making the money come into the hands of the agricultural economy as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much. In this amendment, first of all, I would like to say that when the government proposed amendments to this law, this was not in our text. Then, on both committees, on the basis of a clear position of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which she said, if I quote, "it is legally unacceptable that the legislator does not set this threshold," then we decided together, and even after an assessment of past years, what this threshold should be. So the height of the threshold can be debated. But it was, so to speak, an agreement that we would take into account the opinion of the legislative and legal service and determine the level of this threshold. In particular, on the Committee on Agriculture at the time, I understood that 20% of the estimated direct damage was a well-chosen amount, so we proposed it then, the committee adopted it and now it is the content of the law. Therefore, the government cannot support the proposed amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Chairman. In my presentation on the position of the Member Club, I have already said that we are assessing that this law was not necessarily necessary and that this year's rehabilitation could be carried out under the applicable law. It must be acknowledged that the law in force would have been adopted in circumstances that put pressure on the needs of the law due to a series of harmful events: floods, droughts, hailstones, frosts, reptiles, all piled up. There was also a lot of politicization on this subject and everything. And today we must admit that this law needs certain corrections. The government's announcement that it will come with a new system law is, in my opinion, the solution that is necessary. On this proposal, we may learn something that matters are not well arranged. One of these is the one that the Social Democrats are trying to remedy in order to come into contradiction with the very predictions of the law. We set the threshold for the deposit, but we're talking about the recovery of the overpaid compensation, which, of course, is not going together. It is important that then a more thorough reform of the whole law be prepared, but now recovery could be carried out according to the existing law. Then, in a new one, I expect solutions to be more studied and agreed, even in this direction, as Mr Minister says, some procedures are being simplified. Of course, these simplifications must be limited because it is not difficult for me to say because I know this area very well, but when we talk about billions of damages, speculation occurs. In the past, we had a story in both of the biggest droughts that we were paying compensation even where there was no drought. And these matters need to be thoroughly processed in the new proposal, and probably also for other harmful events. Because there is psychosis in our country, if the state gives, let it not burden anyone, which of course is not true, and then through the novel we must also ensure a thorough control over the resources that are then distributed in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u131	Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u132	The legislative and legal service has certainly pointed out a problem that was obviously not well defined in the law, so that at least somehow it tries to set a limit on how high the advance is supposed to be. We note that this content is inadequately contained in Article 37, because I stress that this Article 37 speaks of a programme to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture and that this comment made by the legal and regulatory service had to be resolved in Article 40, which is also open, which refers to the amount of the appropriations allocated. I think that if at least this correction had been achieved, we would have skipped this obstacle or ambiguity as shown in Article 37, which is very clear that we need to draw up a programme. However, the advance should be paid before or in our opinion on the basis of the first rough estimate adopted by the Ministry. If we were to try to resolve this comment by the legal and legislative service in Article 40, it would seem to me that it would be significantly better, more appropriate. We warn the proposer that he is trying to correct this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you very much. And on my behalf also to the Minister, the Secretary of State, my colleagues and my colleagues! The word has magic. Tauzes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. I would explain how the procedure under this law is to arrive, say, in this case to prepayment. The law finds that the government must be informed of the damage. This damage shall be assessed and reported to the government of the Ministry responsible for protecting against natural and other disasters. On the basis of this discussion, the government finds that it must help to release state resources from the budget reserve and at that time it is the competent ministry, in which case the Ministry of Agriculture, which is responsible for managing cases concerning agricultural damage, is obliged to come to government with the programme, not later than next week. In this programme he tells the procedure and, of course, prepayments are part of this programme. And that's how it happened in 2003, even though we didn't have it written in our marriage. At the time, I think, I hope that my memory doesn't deceive me, three to four billion were released for advance payments. It is true, however, that at the time of the adoption of the programme, the government decided for 40% some deposit value and probably the number of speculations that would always be a little too high. And that is why, of course, we had to regulate with this law how, of course, this overpaid advance payment is regulated, as far as the budget is concerned, as far as the return is concerned, and in some sense that we are also fair to farmers, who may have been misled in some way, in some small way. And that's all. So, also now, when the government adopts a programme that can follow immediately after the government's decision on the need to help, the programme prepares the Ministry and will find, at the first point of the programme, prepayments of one billion, in short, those available at that time in the budget, we will divide in this way and this way. And that's it. Then, of course, the programme defines the verification group and so on. However, verification of the procedure is a longer process. This, however, comes with complaints even after six months. But then this is the program. So it is not a fear that we would not achieve the goal, but if, of course, as Mr Minister has said, we could have given the minister more power, but this event could have happened earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word about Article 3? Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u136	I'm sure it's nice to hear how the process is going. Only if this procedure is not provided for in the law or in the regulation sufficiently clearly, then such questions as I am discussing at this point are raised. The source on which the injury assessment will be paid is not sufficiently specified. And now, if we're really talking about Article 37, we're talking about the programme. The second paragraph of this Article also states that "the performance of the tasks referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be financed under the burden of the means to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture." Therefore, the programme itself must be prepared and also financed after this, this preparation of this programme is provided for in Article 37. We are convinced that it would be much easier if we wrote down that the advance is made on the basis of an assessment of the damage the government accepts, of the first injury assessment accepted by the government. I think it is absolutely clear that this is the first assessment that the government accepts and we know what resources will be made. As far as we are talking about the programme, this is already an indeterminate procedure that does not specify exactly what the starting point would be on which, say, a prepayment would belong to someone. By simply pointing out that it would be much clearer and easier if this advance were paid on the basis of the first injury assessment adopted by the Government. Not based on the program and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I find that there are no more applications, so I am concluding the debate. Following the established procedure, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, or no later than 20.39 hours. This concludes this agenda item. I'm moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE MEASURES FOR THE ELIMINATION OF THE RESULTS OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE LEGAL FLAGES OF THE BIG TERRITORY 2000 AND 2001 - REDUCTION OF THE PROCEDURE. We have 50 minutes at our disposal, this is a time of discussion. For consideration, the law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative, Minister Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Members and Members of Parliament. As has been said, the Government proposes that the National Assembly consider and adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on measures to address the consequences of certain terrestrial beaches of a larger scale from 2000 and 2001. If we can remember together, at the end of 2000 and at the beginning of 2001 several beaches of great scale were activated in the area of Slovenia and the most prominent beach was the beach of Stovje in the municipality of Bovec, because this devastating poultry flow of exceptional proportions was unfortunately caused by fatalities. In addition, the beach in the municipality of Bovec was activated and declared as the beaches of a larger size also the beach of salt mud in the municipality of Ajdovščina, Macesnikov áz in the municipality of Solčava, the beach Podmark in the municipality of Šempeter Vrtojba, the beach stream in the municipality of Kobarid and the beaches Gradišče and Šmihel in the municipality of Nova Gorica. That is why the DZRS adopted in a year, in 2002, a law on measures to address the consequences of certain terrestrial beaches of greater scope with a view to ensuring a way of financing the implementation of the necessary measures and identifying procedures to remedy the consequences. At that time, it was envisaged that between 2002 and 2005, funds of 8.9 billion tolars would be made available and spent or guaranteed at 48.5% and 4.4 billion tolars. In addition to the intervention measures that had to be implemented due to adverse weather conditions, not only in 2002, but also in the coming years, the measures provided for by the law have been implemented, if only some of them have been mentioned, to make it difficult to observe the impact areas of the beaches during the implementation of measures, to maintain the interventions carried out, to carry out the necessary parts of stopping beaches and to prevent the spread of beaches during the implementation of these measures, and in particular to implement programmes for the preparation of site plans for infrastructure facilities in influential beach areas and to develop projects for the construction, renewal or replacement of facilities. The local plans for the influential areas of Stolže beach in the municipality of Bovec and Struk beach in the municipality of Kobarid are already in place and are already in force or are accepted. The location plan for impact on the areas of Podmark, Gradišče and Šmihel beaches has been developed, and these public presentations have been completed in these days, and I can tell you that they are expected to be adopted by the end of this year. Due to the adverse weather conditions caused by the significantly increased level of instability and increased intensity of land movements at Macesnik beach in the municipality of Solčava and Slano mud beach in the municipality of Ajdovščina, the location plans for these two beaches have not yet been developed. In the government, we estimate that the work done so far has significantly reduced the level of human hazard and property in affected areas. However, the final level of safety will only be ensured by the implementation of all, including by the location plans of the envisaged arrangements in each affected area of each individual beach. During the period of validity of the law, amendments were also adopted in the field of regulation of space, construction of buildings and environmental protection, and this was also taken into account when we prepared this amendment of the law. In order to ensure security in affected areas, in order to prevent the spread and establishment of larger-scale beaches and to bring this into line with existing legislation, taking into account the potential of the State budget, we propose an amendment to the law by extending the law until 2010 and by providing the necessary means to implement the planned remedial measures. Members and Members are invited to support the draft law after consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Minister, for further explanation. As usual, the proposal for a law also addressed the work of the mother body, the Committee on the Environment and Space. I invite Mr Petan to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, respectable! In the context of the reduced procedure, the Committee of the National Assembly on Environment and Space carried out a second examination of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of Certain Grounds of a Larger Scope 2000 and 2001 submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the legislative procedure. The government has proposed that the proposal for a law be dealt with in a simplified manner. At its 35th meeting, the College of Presidents decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. In addition to the representatives of the proposed law, the Secretary of State, Mr Starman and the Mag. Tauzesa was also represented by a representative of the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and representatives of the municipalities of Krško, Solčava and the municipal municipality of Nova Gorica. The proposed law was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service only drew attention to the nomotechnological drafting of the text of Article 2 of the proposed law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and also adopted its amendments to Articles 1 and 2. After the vote on the Committee's amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted, in accordance with Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a supplementary proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law is prepared, on measures to address the consequences of certain terrestrial reptiles of a larger scale from 2000 and 2001 and is also an integral part of this report. A representative was also appointed to report at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. For the stage, I invite Mr Weber to present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, again. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Measures to Eliminate the Effects of Certain Terrestrial Plazas of a Larger Scope 2000 and 2001 is certainly one of the more necessary laws that we are considering in Parliament. However, I would like to point out that the permanent security of the threatened areas in the larger-scale beaches areas is ensured only through the implementation of all the envisaged arrangements and the construction of the facilities. The law itself proposes to extend the deadline until 2010, which means that in the period until all the measures are implemented and all the facilities are built, of course we will not be able to provide sufficient security in the affected area of the terrestrial beaches. The assessment of the financial resources needed to carry out all the necessary tasks is 11 billion tolls of additional resources. We are aware that this is a very high resource and that it is difficult to provide it in one financial year or two, three and that a longer period is needed. However, we believe that we should aim to ensure that all the necessary payments to individual operators can be made as soon as possible and possibly even later. We believe that this would also prevent further damage that may occur in the event of repeated major rainfall, which, of course, would cause significant damage on the beach, unless all measures have been taken to the end. Therefore, we would point out that it would nevertheless be reasonable to consider that all procedures and all measures, all arrangements, are implemented as soon as possible and, of course, try also to develop an appropriate financial structure for operators and, of course, also for the budgetary implications that we are adopting for 2006, 2007 and for the following budgetary periods. The law will, however, be supported in the same form as it was. We hope, however, that the applicant will try to follow these solutions so that the consequences of any further rains will be minimised on those objects that have not yet been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Koren has the floor to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u144	Good afternoon! In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on measures to address the consequences of certain land beaches of a larger scale from 2000 and 2001. The purpose of the present law was presented by the Minister. We can see that the life span of this marriage ends this year, but things are not finished. Although the law that we have before us today is short and simple, I think it is very important for the whole of Slovenia, and especially for those local communities where these reptiles of major proportions are located. In view of the fact that we have also seen recovery from the reports, and given that only 48% of the funds envisaged under the law have actually been used or provided for during this period, it is of concern on the one hand. However, we are pleased that the rehabilitation is carried out professionally, that measures are taken according to what needs are and that more resources are allocated to the beaches currently most at risk to certain areas. I myself know Macesnik's plaza, and I must say that when I first drove across this area and saw the dimensions that this reptile has, and how it moves quickly during certain periods, it was very frightening for me. It is said that during this period of validity of the law, adverse weather conditions have led to an increase in the instability of these reptiles and have made only rehabilitation more difficult. I think that the amendment of the law seeks to ensure that in the affected areas there is genuine permanent security for the population and to prevent proliferation and to achieve the establishment of the land reptiles defined by the law. It is therefore proposed to extend the period of validity of this Act until 2010. As a result of the changes in legislation not in the area of the regulation of space, the construction of buildings and the protection of the environment which occurred at the time of the implementation of the law, the law in question is also in line with this new law in force. Members of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party will support the proposed law. At the same time, I must point out that we are very concerned about the problem of beaches in Slovenia. In Slovenia we have, in addition to these six plazas, which this law deals with, many others, including very large plazas. In this particular area of the Shale Valley this year, some very, very large beaches have emerged in recent major rainfalls. And it seems to me that in the area of the rehabilitation of beaches it will be necessary for the state to take further measures, as the local community on one such large beach is simply not capable of remedying these matters on its own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Presečnik, who will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, the possibility of earth’s beaches being created is very high. The causes are different, natural, precipitation, earthquakes and so forth and even more common as the result of interventions into space. The rehabilitation of beaches is difficult, and sometimes measures are ineffective, in particular, a professional approach is needed and thorough preliminary research is needed, which usually requires a lot of time and money. The beaches covered by the law are not located in the wilderness away from communications and settlements, so their rehabilitation is necessary to the extent that it will ensure the safety of people and property in the affected areas. By amending the law, we extend the possibility of implementing remedial measures and the final conclusion of those measures makes it clear and simplifies the administrative procedures necessary to obtain the appropriate permits for intervention at the premises and to implement the measures for the rehabilitation of beaches. Many smaller reptiles are also a major problem in Slovenia. We expect that the government will draw up an appropriate proposal on the basis of which the state and municipalities of these reptiles can be adequately rehabilitated and that we will also provide adequate funds for these measures. Finally, too many reptiles are created due to inappropriate interventions into space, which shows that more professional attention is needed to plan the use of space. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the draft amendments and the addition of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Yelen, who will present the position of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u148	Respectable in the Chamber, distinguished minister! In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that the adoption of a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Measures to Eliminate the Effects of Certain Large-scale Land Plazas 2000 and 2001 is necessary. That a change of legislation needs to be adopted we believe the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the reinforced facts of the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the legislative and legal service, representatives of some participating municipalities, environmental and spatial committees, the minister and his colleagues in a broad debate, which notes that the amendment of this legislation will help to solve this problem more quickly and more effectively, the problems of the larger beaches in the Republic of Slovenia. So far, analyses have shown that recoverys were slowly being resolved. Only 50% of the problem of beach rehabilitation is to be observed. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is imperative to define everything envisaged in the plans for a defined past and future recovery, in order to include the expertise for the good and quality of the problem, which, according to our assessment, is the only one that will provide us with the appropriate quality of the performance works in the future. So far, it has been shown that the majority of the resources for the beaches have been too small and even bigger in the municipalities are smaller reptiles, which in new cases are difficult to see the light of realization. It is worth supporting all the recommendations and, among them, the long-term programmes of effective action in the plasmic areas in individual cases, which must also include the conditions for directing the settlement. Acceptance of the change in the long-term direction of planning for wider beaches could only contribute to rationalising efficiency and faster and more professional implementation, with the immediate provision of funds for such purposes in individual budgetary periods. It will be necessary to work to reduce the production of geological reports on the rehabilitation of beaches, a way of faster resolution or rehabilitation in the affected areas of a larger scale, which is in the resolution of the Republic of Slovenia and of smaller beaches, for which the municipalities will also be responsible. In order to resolve the issue of the past and the future as soon as possible, the proposed amendment with credible complements will be supported in the Democratic Party of Pensioners' parliamentary group, because we think it is worth agreeing on preventing such a problem and effectively resolving the programme measures to address the consequences of the larger-scale beaches for 2000 and 2001. Even in the future, such events, the natural problems that we must always be prepared for through budgetary means, are expected to accelerate and work as soon as possible. For the proposed law or supplement, there are no concerns, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I once again invite Mr Petan to present the SDS position this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Respectable. It is known that Slovenia is an extremely sluggish area and every major storm or long-lasting rain triggers new beaches of various dimensions, and the beaches appear for various reasons. A large number of them appear due to non-professional human interventions into the environment, into nature, as well as to changes in water currents, both superficial and subterranean, and the consequences are always the same. Sanitation requires extremely large financial resources. In Slovenia, we also have a number of smaller beaches that require a particularly careful and prudent approach to recovery. Such rehabilitation is also extremely long-term and requires enormous financial resources in a way that requires the pooling of local community and state funding, especially when it comes to large beaches, and, on the other hand, the recovery is extremely difficult. The basic objective of this law is to ensure permanent security for the population and also of nature in affected areas of large beaches, and to prevent their spread and to achieve the stabilisation of the field. It should be mentioned that the validity of the current law expires and is a matter of extending the validity of the readmissions. It is the following beaches, as already mentioned, for Stovje, Slano mud, Macesnikov beach, Podmark, Strug and the beach Gradišče and Šmihel pri Novi Gorica. Since these are extremely extensive procedures, both physical works and finance are meant here, it is reasonable to extend the period of recovery until 2010. In the case of extremely difficult interventions, it is necessary to draw up appropriate documentation for the implementation of the measures, including on the basis of experimental measures, in order to establish the appropriate procedure. It is also necessary to buy land many times, to obtain suitable permits for interventions into space, and to build additional facilities such as stabilisation facilities, bridges, deep and surface drainage, various embankments, landfills, not to mention the regulation of watercourse streams. The extension of legal validity is also necessary for the reason that the funds provided for by the law have not been provided to the appropriate extent and therefore the works have not been carried out to the intended extent, and it is also necessary to take into account that climbing is a dynamic phenomenon and is still dependent on the current weather conditions, in particular precipitation and the distribution of these precipitations. Unfortunately, the measures sometimes need to be adapted to the current situation on the ground, which is often changing. But it is true that problems would be much less if our profession were a little more unified. The additional resources for the implementation of the appropriate measures amount to SIT 11 billion, which is not small, and in the SDS we hope that the work envisaged is also the most optimal. They include both rehabilitation and monitoring in affected areas both during recovery and after recovery, which gives the affected population a sense of additional safety and timely warning of possible changes and movements of the terrain before the disaster occurs. Finally, we would like to point out in the SDS that many natural forces trigger man with their uncontrolled interventions into nature, resulting in consequences that nature itself cannot compensate for. The consequences are visible and sometimes catastrophic. In nature interventions such as road routes in hilly areas, construction of buildings in such areas, it will take a great deal, but in particular more prudence and understanding for interventions and more interventions that are more nature-friendly so that unnecessary accidents and impacts of nature will not occur. In the SDS, we support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you very much. And last but not least, I invite Dr. Gantar to present his LDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u152	Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Charge, Commissioner-General, colleague and colleague! In the LDS, we support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of Certain Earth Plazas of a Larger Scope 2000 and 2001, together with the two amendments adopted as their own by the home labour force. The law that we are considering and adopting today essentially prolongs the period of recovery of some large-scale beaches by 2010. The initial proposal for a law provided for rehabilitation by 2005. We estimate that the reasons for the extension of the recovery period are not encouraging but reasonable and justified. The explanation of the proposal sets out two main reasons for the extension: the lack of budgetary resources for the recovery and dynamics of developments on individual beaches, which, depending on weather and other conditions, required changes in measures and additional complementary work due to the constantly changing situation, as has already been said. The justification and explanation of the law is extensive and gives a relatively precise overview of the measures carried out on individual beaches, which must be commended. However, it is not clear from the explanation that it is also clear whether there are different views of rehabilitation and alternative technical solutions in individual beaches. It would be good for the Minister to introduce us to such different views, if any, and certainly exist in some cases. I also foresee that, in the implementation of contracts for individual works on the beaches of the Ministry of the Environment and Space, the Ministry of the Environment and the Environment shall carry out appropriate controls, either through authorised organisations, which, in addition to the technical and management aspects, take into account the cost of carrying out works, as it is known that designers and contractors together can choose solutions that are financially more difficult, but are not necessarily better. If I may add, it seems that some large beaches will not be able to be saved to such a level of safety that they would allow for a smooth life and stay in these areas. In some cases, it will also be necessary to recognise the power of nature and human activities to be organised differently or to compare the costs that we will have with the rehabilitation of some beaches with other possible measures related to the transformation and change of human intervention and also to stay in these areas. Otherwise, in LDS, we support the position of the parent working body that more attention should also be paid to medium- and smaller-scale reptiles. In short, we will support this bill in the LDS Parliamentary Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I am concluding the proposal and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with our timetable today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, which is now clear that it will be essential before the scheduled 20.39 hours. I thank Minister Podobnik and the Director-General of Mag. The Tauses for presence. [[At the same time, I welcome Mr Matei, Minister.]] This concludes this agenda item. I'm moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE SECURITY LAW ON THE COURT, IN A SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to its representative, Minister Matei.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. We have yet another amendment to the law, which is due to the enforcement of the law on offences. The law, the proposals written, are written because we have to turn the fines into fines. At the same time, however, due to changes in the road safety law, we also had to change, as I say at home, the units of measurement in which alcoholization is measured, the potential alcoholization of skiers on ski slopes and technically changes from 0.5 grams of alcohol in a kilogram of blood to 0.24 milligrams in a liter of breathed air, which is equivalent. At the same time, we have taken advantage of this opportunity to make some other adjustments to ensure safer skiing and the safety of people on the ski slope. Therefore, we have proposed banning the retention or skiing on the ski track after operating time. This, of course, raises safety on the ski slope to a higher level; otherwise, we have arranged for the possibility of taking the ski ticket for certain infringements. The very important issue that we are proposing is also the transmission of ski accident logs when the police carry out a survey of these accidents, so that these records can come where they are needed and can be carried out as quickly as possible. At the same time, we have written slightly different criteria for the knowledge of skiers and ski inspectors, who exercise control and respect for the safety law on ski slopes, in accordance with the suggestions of the profession, so that this inspection could be carried out as effectively as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The bill was also addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice and I invite the committee president, Ms Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President, very nice greeting to the Minister and once again also to you, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, our committee has also considered this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Ski Safety Act at its 12th regular session. The representative of the proposer submitted a supplementary explanation to the draft law highlighting the basic objective of the bill, namely the harmonisation of the law or its individual provisions in relation to the offence law, and some minor amendments and additions to the law. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that their service had made a comment in a written opinion on Article 1 and 4 of the draft law, which had already been taken into account by the applicant, by preparing proposals for amendments to the Committee, which had also been adopted by the mother's working body. The members and members of the committee did not discuss the individual solutions to the draft law further, and we finally adopted all the other proposed articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Drago Koren has the floor to present the position of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! We also support this law, which we now have before us, in the New Slovenia Group of the Christian People's Party. The Basic Ski Safety Act, which was adopted in 2003, provides for safety on ski slopes, conditions under which organised training can be provided and conditions under which the skiing area must be suitable. In addition to aligning the law with the law on offences, some amendments have also been introduced which have proved necessary. These are restraints on skis after operating time, reduction of ski skills criteria for inspectors, replacement of measurement units in alcoholization testing, withdrawal of a ski ticket to a rulebreaker without prior warning, and transmission of accident logs when the police inspect the accident. The New Slovenia Group of the Christian People's Party will support the proposed changes to the law, and in the proposal for amendments we think it is particularly important that it gives supervisors and police officers the opportunity to take the ski ticket without prior warning. Until now, the violators had to be warned, and only in the event of a re-infringement did the condition for the withdrawal of the ski ticket. Since ski controllers are criminal authorities, they will be able to give a new warning to the skier in spite of the deletion of the previous warning if they consider that the warning is sufficient. In recent years there has been an increase in ski crowds and thus the permissibility of skis. This also increases the possibility of many accidents with worse injuries, not to say death. We propose to the competent minister that the Ministry consider increasing the preventive presence of the police on the ski slopes, as well as the possibility of reducing the alcohol content permitted in the blood of skiers. Both measures, in my opinion, would ensure that the number of snow racers is reduced, leading to a better ski culture and resulting in greater safety in Slovenian ski resorts. So the Members of New Slovenia will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor to present DeSUS's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The fact that some parties have skipped the opportunity to present does not likely mean that this law would be completely irrelevant. We consider that it is important or that these proposals are important and very amusing, for a simple reason, because we are assessing that, over the main reason that the applicant cites as the main one, coordination with other legislation is a more important second part of how it is possible and necessary to ensure greater safety on the ski slopes. It's about these substantive changes that we think are important. These changes not only provide greater safety on the ski slopes, but also provide a better offer that skiers, who have become more and more demanding, believe and trust in, and feel safer on our ski slopes. At the same time, this may also mean further incentives for the development of this sector of our economy. We also support lowering certain criteria for inspectors because this reduction is something completely different from what we have adopted in the recent law on hospitality change. Tourism as a ski industry and a ski industry within tourism are very important for Slovenia. They are as important economically as the promotion of our country, especially when we are lucky, as we have recently been standing on the first steps of international competitions. It is also important for employment. It is known that when development tourism develops, when the offer of beds is developed, that there is an open opportunity for large jobs and let us hope that this will happen with our tourism, also because the tourism strategy of skiing, and the same applies to the coalition contract, puts our development opportunities at the forefront. We support the proposal to improve the maintenance and improvement of skiing conditions, for a sector directly linked to sport, through recreation, by protecting and strengthening health, and support the possibility of extending this activity under conditions that would not be detrimental to the protection of the environment, of course. And because of these other possibilities offered by this amendment to the law, because it allows for improvement of the situation on the ski slopes and because we hope, it prevents either at night or during the afternoon the marauders on these ski slopes from acting in such a way as to drive away those who ask for quality skis. We support this in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u161	The following will present the position of SDS Mr Ljubeljšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u162	A respected choir! Dear Mr. Secretary! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Ski Safety Act, as it changes, complements and builds on the law adopted so far in 2003. The fundamental aim and emphasis of the bill is, in our opinion, to ensure even greater safety on the ski slopes at the time of operation of the ski resort and also outside the operating time. In the last decade, a new skiing technique has been developed to develop high-speed skiers in turns, with less skilled skiers riding harder. As a result, practice, frequent accidents, severe falls and collisions among skiers, mostly with severe bodily injuries, also shows. In order to prevent, to the greatest extent possible, the danger of an accident or injury to skiers, the proposed law with an additional provision authorizes the controller or police officer to issue a warning in the event of infringements of the statutory rules by the individual skier, or by withdrawing the ski ticket and by prohibiting further skiing for that day, or to warn the skier if he assesses that the warning is sufficient. In its regulation, the draft law prohibits skiers and other visitors from being kept on the ski area outside the operating time, except by authorised ski operators. This prevents the risk of accidents, while the work of the ski operator will be more transparent and safe. The bill also removes unreasonable legal requirements and conditions for inspectors who are competent to control ski safety, as it introduces nicer and more reasonable conditions. It is the conviction of our parliamentary team that there is no need for university education or for 5 years of work in the field of skiing-related activities and at least skills for a ski teacher. The key point is that in practice he could not punish a skier who violated the legal provisions, unless he had skied behind him all the time, once warned him and punished him for the following violation. Practice says it's impossible. This proposal makes sense for more effective action. However, it is also necessary to lay down proposals for a law introducing an amendment of measurement units for the degree of alcoholisation of the skier, namely compliance with the Road Traffic Safety Act and compliance with the offence law, which provides that fines are to be replaced by fines. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Ski Safety Act because it makes sense to build up and complement the existing law, which thus becomes more viable and, above all, much more effective in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Ljubeljska. Dr Marko Pavliha will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your replacement and your word. Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Given our presence, one would have the feeling that we are really getting a little skied, but I agree with Mr Rezman that it is not a less important marriage if the time we have right now does not promise a good season. If you remember the National Assembly on the very day of the Republic in 2002 adopted a modern regulation on ski safety, which, of course, eliminated all those shortcomings and inflexibility of the old regulation in visa-a-vis new skiing techniques and, of course, the fact that skiing has become a real national sport in Slovenia. The legislator was aware of certain difficulties in implementing this regulation and therefore decided on a very unusually long delay period of application, i.e. the law only entered into force on 1 December 2003 to allow ministers to harmonise and prepare for the implementation of this law, but after two seasons a number of criticisms of individual solutions emerged, in particular by the police on the one hand and on the other, by the transport inspectorate as the body in the composition of the Ministry of Transport. Police, for example, point out that supervisors still do not have payment orders to punish common skiers. They also find that the provisions of the law allowing them to withdraw tickets for unsuited skiing are inappropriate. Because they do not think sufficient care is needed to control ski safety, they point out that this is the main reason that there are no so-called snowmobiles abroad on ski slopes, the fact that order on ski slopes is more sustainable in addition to coaches or our supervisors. Well, if we listen to traffic inspectors, they say that the provisions of the law need to be harmonised and, on the basis of the legislation passed under the new legislation on offences, and in their work, like the police, they have seen shortcomings in the implementation of the measures of ski controllers, because they do not have forms to punish offenders, while at the same time they are interested in regulating some of their other pressing issues in the law, such as the conditions for inspectors and their training in forms, the procedures for dealing with personality resolution and the addition of already prescribed records, the establishment of new records and so on. The proposed law introduces only some of the most urgent and minor changes or additions, such as the Offences Act, which requires that the changed situation in the system of offences also be adapted to laws which contain penalties for offences in their provisions, the prohibition of ski retention after operational time, the reduction of skiing criteria for inspectors, the replacement of measurement units in the alcoholization test, the withdrawal of a ski ticket and the transmission of accident logs when the reputation of an accident is managed by the police. With the proposed amendments, we agree and support the proposed amendments in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, but we do not think they are sufficient. The Ski Safety Act should also be complemented in the direction of the permitted permissibility of ski slopes for the immediate punishment of violators, and the wider powers of supervisors and the information of skiers on the ski slopes could also be listed. Nevertheless, we agree that the National Assembly will only accept these amendments at this time, as we are aware that the European Union or its Commission, together with the international ski link, is preparing a discussion on whether and how to address safety issues on skis at Union level. The consultations will also be attended by representatives of the Ski Association of Slovenia, and we propose that the mother labour body or the national assembly, after the completion of the consultations, be informed of the proposals presented and that either the government, the ministry or Members, in cooperation with interested organisations, namely the Ski Association of Slovenia, the associations of cable drivers and some others, be informed of other necessary changes to the law to which we have been alerted and to which practice will also alert us, especially after the next season, which we hope will come anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Sheets of the People of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. We have before us a bill amending and supplementing the law on travel documents of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. These amendments proposed are related to the European Union directives and to the Council Regulation and speak of biometric protection elements in the travel documents of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. By doing so, we are preparing all the legal bases so that we can introduce biometric elements into our passports in a timely manner. In doing so, it should be emphasized that the introduction of a biometric passport does not change the old passport, that there is no need to change the old travel documents which will remain in force until they take effect or until the time limit specified in the old travel documents. Of course, there are other changes to the changes we have made in this regard. We will extend the validity of the passport for a child, so that children can now have until the third year of age a passport for up to three years, so far they have had to change it for at least once because the regulation said that the passport must be changed by the fourth year at least every two years. This will facilitate the acquisition of these passports. We further propose rationalisation in procedures, especially in the process where a person loses or misses his passport and reports it to the administrative unit. We have now allowed the possibility that the administrative unit, on behalf of the citizen, will withdraw from the Official Journal and, of course, shorten his ways and pay some minor compensation. We are somehow trying to bring the government closer to the citizens as well. The following changes, which of course we also had to amend in the law, are related to the law on offences, fines are being imposed, a criminal body is being laid down, which has not been established so far, and the criminal authority will be the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs and Police. Furthermore, due to amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act and for safety reasons in particular, we have proposed that the passports should be raised personally and not left in the mailboxes. We have also extended the possibility of obtaining the diplomatic passport of the Republic of Slovenia to Members of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament. And of course we have made the necessary change because we are a member of the EU, now our embassies are the ones who can issue passports for return to all citizens of the European Union and not only to our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The draft law also addressed the working body of the mother, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, and I invite President Kucler Dolinar to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u168	We have already discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on travel documents of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at our 12th regular meeting on 5.10. In an additional explanation for the bill, the representative stressed that changes or additions to the law were primarily necessary in order to introduce a biometric record of the identity of the holder of the travel document. Above all, he highlighted further developments and additions introduced by the law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the applicant fully followed the comments made in their written opinion and, on this basis, also drafted the amendments proposed to the Committee for its adoption. Members and members of the Committee on Solutions and Proposals have not discussed further, but we have adopted both proposals for amendments to the Committee and the remaining articles of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I invite Mr Bajc to present the position of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u170	Mr Vice President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group estimate that it was necessary to amend or supplement the travel document law, mainly in order to introduce a biometric record of the passport holder's image, as well as the requirements of the United States of America, to have passports to be used for their arrival in their territory in the coming year such a form. The bill under consideration adequately addresses this issue, while at the same time coordinating some uncoordinated areas with other laws such as the Offences Act and the General Administrative Procedure Act. The law that we are considering also newly regulates the local competence of the travel document authority, regulates the acquisition of the right to obtain the diplomatic passport of the euro to Members from Slovenia and certain minor matters. On the basis of all the above, as well as the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, that the applicant has fully followed their comments and has therefore drawn up the relevant proposals of the amendments, we will support the members of the Slovenian People's Party to amend and supplement the travel documents law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Yelen, on behalf of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we strongly and unanimously support the adoption of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on travel documents of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure, by means of reasoned facts of need for the introduction of a biometric record of the image of the holder of the travel document, with a view to imitating the European Union regulation adopted by the Council on safety standards and biometric data on passports and travel documents issued by Member States. All of this must be done because of the prescribed deadline set by the United States of America to a group of 27 countries that do not need a visa to enter. Thus, only a few individual facts are listed, which have a strong impact on our thinking towards supporting the amendments to the legislation. On the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, a representative of the proposer was also extremely convincing. He has acted forcefully on the basis of a provision of the law establishing local jurisdiction as the competent authority. An administrative unit shall be responsible for issuing the passport, so that a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia may apply for a passport anywhere in the country where the legislation allows for the novelty of the extended right to obtain a diplomatic passport also for Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Member. The legislative and legal services made a good impression as they did not have any concerns or serious comments on the home committee. Our view is that the law is good, so we will vote in the DeSUS Group to receive it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Ljubeljska to present the position of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u174	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! The main objective of the amendments and the completion of the travel documents law of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is to ensure the protection of biometric data of the holder of the travel document. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Personal Data Protection Act provide that data on an individual may be collected, processed and used only on the basis of the law or its written consent. The Personal Data Protection Act defines as a novelty a specific chapter on biometrics defining the processing of biometric characteristics to identify or compare the characteristics of an individual in such a way that an identity can be verified. The very practice of biometric identity checks shall be carried out by comparing the stored sample or recording of the biometric characteristics of an individual in a particular computer program with the currently scanned or recorded biometric characteristics of an individual. Those measures shall apply, for example, to the breach of national border control. The news resulting from the special chapter on biometrics in the Personal Data Protection Act requires the amendment of the travel documents law of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to introduce biometric elements into the travel document itself, in the following provisions: amendment or addition of new data on the prescribed travel document form, amendment or addition of new data in the records, which are kept in accordance with the travel documents law, amendment or discharge of the powers to use new added data from the travel documents record, deletion of the issue of a group passport which does not allow the introduction of biometric protections for all persons entered in such a document. The safety of passengers today comes first, especially after the tragic terrorist attacks that hit the United States in September 2001. These attacks continued in Spain in 2004, this year, London, and the threats of terrorist attacks are increasing. The Republic of Slovenia is actively monitoring all developments related to biometrics in travel documents. This alone stems from the requirements imposed by the United States in 2002 by a group of 27 countries that do not need a visa to enter the United States. In August 2004, the US Congress decided to extend the deadline for the introduction of the biometric elements of the travel document for these countries until October 2005. This year, June, that period was extended until October 2006. This means that Slovenia will have to start issuing biometric travel documents by October 2006 at the latest if it wishes to maintain such a system. At the same time, Slovenia is working to introduce certain biometric elements as soon as possible into travel documents as an EU member actively preparing for the issuance of such documents, both to third-country nationals and to EU nationals. This is also an obligation laid down by the EU Council Regulation on standards for safety features and biometric data in passports and travel documents issued by Member States. The Regulation defines the implementation of two biometric elements as mandatory with phased introduction. The deadline for implementing the content of that Regulation is 28.8.2006. We will certainly support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much. And lastly, I invite Mrs Kucler Dolinar to present the position of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you, Chairman. Our parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on travel documents of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. On the one hand, it brings the necessary changes to the introduction of so-called biometry, and on the other hand it also means a new approximation of the state administration to our citizens. As stated, travel documents are built on biometric protection elements as the European Union has entered into force by the Council Regulation. The processing of biometric characteristics shall identify or compare the characteristics of an individual by carrying out his or her identification. In the future, however, there will certainly be some current topic, including the development of the law of data privacy. Surely one of the greatest conflicts is the relationship between individual freedom and individual security. The biometric characteristics in the law are not taxively listed, so the definition is open, modified and supplemented, if necessary, with data requirements on the travel document form or the data record. Security will also be facilitated by the provision that an unmarried consignment, i.e. a passport, will no longer be left in the mailbox if the consignee does not receive it when the postal employee visits, but will be returned to the issuer. However, I certainly also support the resolution of the bill, which will make parents happy when we introduce a new provision for a longer period of validity of the travel document, so that by the third year of the year three years are in force and from the third to the eighteenth year five years are in force. We support the extension of local authority to issue a passport to the whole country, as well as the possibility of cancelling a travel document after the introduction of information. However, we are very positive about the solution that the additional obligation of an individual to cancel a passport on an administrative unit is lifted, that he will then run on the official sheet to publish it and submit his application for publication, and I support the solution that this cancellation will be carried out and that the administrative unit will intervene on the official sheet itself. As we say, we support the law and are pleased with all the positive news that brings us back a step closer to individuals, citizens and all those who do business with our national administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And since there has been no debate on the articles on the proposed amendments to the amended law, I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law today, in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, or at the latest at 20.39, but it is unlikely that this will happen. This concludes this agenda item. God’s Word, 1 / 15 At the end of the day, this is a second-level proposal for a law on amendments to the law on police law. This proposal has also been submitted to our National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I would therefore like to invite Minister Matei to the floor again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a motion to amend the law on police. At the outset, I would say that this law is in line with other laws that systematically regulate certain areas. This is how we coordinate it with the Offences Act, where the exercise of powers is transferred to the whole country and thus coordinate this provision. We are also coordinating some of the areas related to covered investigative measures and the police-led records. This is coordinated with the Criminal Procedure Act, so that we can manage this area as effectively as possible and have all the necessary records that will make it easier for Parliament to exercise its control. In the part of the law that speaks of police powers, we have changed certain powers in terms of more humane treatment of persons who have limited liberty and need medical care in this regard, so that these persons can be offered assistance without the presence of a policeman or will be present only in cases where the doctor requires it. We also regulate the area of return of persons to other countries to other foreign security authorities. This area is regulated by reducing costs while at the same time providing humane and even more legal protection to those persons who are in the process of extradition. With the police mandate, where we invite people to interviews at police stations, we have settled this issue by reimbursed these persons for the costs of the invitation and thus somehow filled in, or by removing this open question that has lingered for some time. With regard to the amendment to Article 54, which regulates the right of police officers to use a polygraph, it is a major change; it is the written consent of the person and not the suspect as it has been so far. This means that this measure can be implemented by written consent and only if the person is in any proceedings or to the extent of the offence. The working relationship is also changing. We are redefining an area where, for the purposes of protecting the Schengen border, we introduce the possibility of employment for a certain period of up to five years, and last but not least, we are proposing amendments to the Police Act, which will set out the legal framework for the implementation of religious [[End warning sign]] spiritual care in the Slovenian police, as has been done in some other laws in the Republic of Slovenia. However, a more detailed method of spiritual provision will be prescribed by means of a legal act.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u179	Time's up, Minister, please. Thank you so much for understanding. The draft law was also addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. I ask the President to rejoin us as a speaker and present the Committee's report. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act was considered by the Committee at its 12th meeting. In its supplementary explanation, the representative stressed that the basic objective of the bill of rationalisation was to regulate employment in the police for a certain period of time by establishing an exemption from the general regulation of the labour law, whereby a fixed-term employment relationship with the same worker and for the same work of the decision could be decided for a maximum of two years. In order to carry out the tasks of protecting the external borders of the European Union and protecting facilities, a fixed-term employment contract may be concluded in accordance with the proposed solution with a police officer for up to five years. This would avoid problems related to the identification of redundant workers, which could occur once the protection of the external border is taken over by Croatia. The meeting was also attended by representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service, who presented their written opinion, which mainly made comments on Articles 2 and 11. With regard to Article 2 of the draft law, which was intended to remove doubts about the local jurisdiction of police officers, they considered that it was already possible to interpret from the applicable provision of the law that police officers could exercise powers throughout the country. With regard to the provision of Article 11 of the draft law, which provides for the possibility of religious care for police officers, the legal and legal service initially considered the proposed solution to be too wide to allow this right for every police officer. However, the amendment was later adopted to this article, so it is stipulated that it is only for police officers. Members and members of the committee discussed further the resolution of a bill providing police officers with the possibility of religious spiritual care. They agreed that it was the duty of the State to ensure the implementation of Articles 7 and 41 of the Constitution, thus enabling all citizens to exercise the right to freedom of religion and other definitions in private and public life. However, in the opinion of some members of the Committee, this had to be clarified and formulated in particular in such a way that this provision would not allow for a broad interpretation. The members of the committee agreed that the precision would be done with the adoption of an amendment that would only apply to police officers and not to all police personnel, since only police officers could be in specific situations. Some members of the Committee considered that the provision by adopting that amendment would be adequate and consistent with constitutional provisions. In support of their position, they were based on the specific nature of police work, which could involve, for example, a prolonged absence or greater exposure to risks than in other professions. It also makes sense that the exercise of this right will be regulated more precisely by the Minister, since the flexibility of the regime will in some way be ensured. On the contrary, some members of the Committee continued to believe that such precision would not be sufficient and that it would not be sufficient, so some of their proposals were also made. At the end of the meeting, the members of the Committee expressed their willingness, on this basis, to seek, in cooperation with the applicant, an appropriate text for consideration at the meeting of the national assembly. The representative of the proposer also agreed in the debate on this provision that a good text should be better drafted and stressed that it is nevertheless impossible in the law to foresee all situations in which the provision could be taken into account. The Committee adopted the amendment of the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group of Members, did not adopt the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, but also adopted its amendments and voted favourably for the other articles of the Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I invite Mrs Žgajner Tavš to present the position of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u182	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Members. Based on those objectives in the draft law, with the exception of the last indent, the Slovenian National Party could almost fully attach to the law, but the law adopted following a reduced procedure on a proposal from the Government would, of course, have financial consequences. I regret to express my criticism of this work to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in defining the financial implications for or on the state budget. For there are two essential innovations in the new law, the return of travel costs to invited persons and the spiritual care of police officers. For the first novelty, the government foresees an additional EUR 5 million per year in the budget, while for the second activity, that is, the spiritual supply, the force is a unclear framework item. All we learn from the explanation is that the Office of the Police Adviser, the Undersecretary, is expected to carry out the spiritual care tasks of almost 6 million tolls per person, per year. In addition to the clear doubts about the constitutionality of the proposed spiritual care of police officers with budgetary funding, even within the military, which is professional - even Minister Sturm recently expressed doubts about the constitutionality of the latter. I have to comment on a comparative review or legal regulation in other legal systems, which is a mandatory part of every law but in this case would be really better in terms of competence, the expertise of the government, in order to leave this part out in this case. If I read just this point, which is point 1.6 of the amendment to the Police Law, I would actually think that we are deciding today on a law on religious freedom, perhaps even a constitutional amendment to Article 7 of our Constitution. From this work we only know what the French Constitution stipulates, and the Belgian, Hungarian law, Czech law, Austrian, German law, but only in the field of comparative review of constitutional arrangements, specifically in the field of religious communities and the state. Although we today decide or talk about the amendment of a law that has a total of fourteen articles in its substantive articles, spiritual provision is limited, or merely to article 11 of the Law. You know, such a lack of seriousness and actually the government's covert purpose will destroy all the other changes, but they are positive, and I believe that, although I have not actually been able to get this impression from this comparative review, they are also in line with the European Union's legal order. Now I'm going to focus substantively on Article 7. It speaks of polygraph testing in the context of data collection against suspects and detection and investigation of criminal offences. Practice has shown that the reliability of polygraph testing is 90% on average, where polygraphs are used by qualified people, with regularly certified licences. This raises a question for me, and I hope to get an answer. Given that polygraphs in Slovenia are largely left to criminals or police officers or how many of them are regularly checked or certified licenses, and, of course, what is the availability of polygraphs in Slovenia. In this context, it would make sense to consider more consistent and professional introductions of polygraph testing, especially in the field of sexual abuse. In the world, they take seriously the prevention of repeated sexual abuse of pedophiles with a regular few months of polygraph testing. In addition, it would be useful to consider, in the framework of the sectoral legislation, but not specifically the law in question, the determination of the evidentiary value of such tests. With regard to the approval of the law, allow me to clarify that we will vote in the SNS on the basis of the debate and of course the vote on the amendments to Article 11.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Yelen's next speaker to present DeSUS's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thanks again for saying that. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. The bill provides for a number of innovations, the use of certain police powers, working legal relations, fixed-term employment, the protection of the external borders of the European Union, certain criminal offences and the religious care of police officers, among whom the latter may be more resilient. Only these are subject to special attention in some countries, Spain, Italy, and the adoption of this law will also become a priority right. With the amendment, we have achieved that only police officers are entitled to justice regarding religious spiritual care. However, specific rules should be taken into account by the competent minister. Such orderliness of religious spiritual care in the police already suggests a collation with the religious freedom law, article 23, the possibility of spiritual care for police officers. In the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, we advertise and at the same time draw attention to some of the uncertainties and inconsistencies with regard to such arrangements. In our view, this possibility of religious spiritual care for police officers reflects the decent conduct of the police, regardless of their regiolioliistic definition, their belongings, and their adaptability to their profession. The proposed solutions to religious spiritual care reflect the rights of military personnel who are provided with this protection law during military service. So it's a special situation in military circumstances. We are certainly working in our DeSUS Group to find and come up with a common compromise solution with the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. With regard to the police Curate, which is supposed to take care of and serve this right, we have concerns about its territorial enforcement of its obligations to the limited rights of police officers. In principle, we agree with the above-mentioned proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on police, although we believe that it is necessary to re- and soberly judge this religious right. Our DeSUS Group will still support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Petan has the following word on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, Your Honor! The Police Act of 1998 established a system framework for the functioning of the police as a body within the Ministry of the Interior. The law has been amended several times, the most recent major since 2003, to include changes identified in the appeal procedure and in the areas of police powers. The current changes have the intention of aligning police laws with other laws that systematically regulate certain areas, in our case this is a law on offences and a law on criminal proceedings. An important substantive change is the regulation of the use of a polygraph. With the introduction of the new Criminal Procedure Act 2003, the police can no longer use a polygraph to detect suspects, but only to collect information from suspects, is said to be from persons who are already suspected. One of the purposes of the old system polygraph was no longer possible. With a new amendment, the proposed amendment ensures that polygraph testing is also permissible for the detection of perpetrators and not only for obtaining notices from previously identified suspects, but only if a person gives written consent to do so. Part of the content goes towards greater protection of human rights in police procedures to detained and invited persons. It is a procedure of humane treatment of persons who have been deprived of their liberty and who also need medical attention. According to the new person, the right of access to a doctor must also be recognised with the right to be examined by a doctor of his choice, in addition to any medical examination carried out by a doctor of the choice of the police. This examination must take place outside the auditory and possibly also the visible field of police officers, of course if, for example, the doctor, for safety reasons, does not require otherwise. However, the review record must also be accessible to the person and her lawyer. The amendment also solves the problem of a detained person who has been returned by foreign security authorities and also facilitates a reverse procedure that has not been sufficiently defined so far. However, the largest debate on the parental committee has been given a possible least significant addition. This is an opportunity to provide spiritual care for police officers who, due to certain circumstances, are in no position to be provided spiritually. This issue is addressed in most democratic countries of the European Union, such as Spain, Germany, Italy, as well as Iceland, and is well regulated. That's the way it is in the United States. This provision is based on agreements concluded by countries with individual religious communities. This is an area that could be called tolerance for different ones, but this is the area that has attracted the most debate. On the other hand, this is incomprehensible because this has already been resolved in the field of armed forces and has proved to be very positive. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, a compromise solution on the spiritual supply proposed is appropriate. However, this amendment of the law is a step forward and we support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you very much. [[Cell phone ringing.]] I'd like you to turn your eyes on and turn off your phones. Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Gulič, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u188	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supports changes and additions to the law on police, but not all. The Club supports in particular those changes to the law that follow the more important objectives introduced by the novel. This is to harmonise the law with the law on offences and the law on criminal procedure, the work that speaks of increasing the protection of human rights in police procedures, especially with respect to detained and invited persons, then to regulate the use of polygraphs in the detection and investigation of criminal offences, to regulate the specificity of police labour relations relevant to the effective conduct of police work, and to address the human resources problem in the recruitment of police. The Liberal Democracy Club, however, does not support changes in the religious care of police officers in an inadequate manner. The provisions are unclear and do not set enforcement frameworks. The latter was also pointed out by the legislature. The right to profess faith is of a private nature and is generally exercised at a time that is available to a person outside the working time, it is said, at the leisure time that police officers have, like all other employees. If, of course, it is not possible for an individual to carry out a certain profession or is very difficult and has no or limited freedom of movement, it is necessary to regulate the provision of spiritual supplies by establishing specific conditions or circumstances in which such an arrangement will be taken into account. This option, of course, you had, dear colleagues, yesterday when we proposed the Law on the Religious Community, where this was very clearly defined and, of course, the question is whether such a provision has anything to look for in this law. While we speak of this being regulated by the Defence Act and in a suitable manner, it provides for restrictions on the way in which enforcement is carried out, of course it is not in certain decrees and in certain regulations. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] which was established at a time when we had a recruitment system so that today it is also a question. [[..]] In particular, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are opposed to hiring dedicated persons for this purpose, not least, we need to know that one dedicated person or a Kurat, so that it is better to be clear about the work we are talking about, for about 8 thousand police officers, if we assume that most of them are connected to one religious community. But if we take a quick look, then we know that the police are the very institution that has a lot of people in different religious communities, and things get even more complicated. This is either impossible or it means that there would be a staff member in the police who could do this purely for all religious communities, but I doubt that religious communities would agree. Thus, it is a contradiction between article 14 of the Constitution and the principle of equality before the law. Members of different religions would be treated differently, one would have the option and the other would have been deprived. There is no basis for the proposed regulation in the regulations of other countries, to which the draft law refers, since there is no particular guarantee of religion in the police, but it is provided by the Constitution, mainly in a way that is more modern than the rest of us. That would be almost all. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will, if the Committee does not form its own complement as it has been said, regulate the provision of the article with the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service and open those comments to complement the Social Democracy, which proposes the deletion of the article, either by supplementing the Committee or by supplementing the Social Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Potrč, who will present the position of SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The law on the amendments and additions to the law on police, although not extensive, brings important news, perhaps we have not even given enough attention to everyone at the meeting of the home labour force. One reason for this may also be the fact that the committees were not invited to the committee's meeting by the trade unions. Thus, it is only today that we have received their letter reminding us of the inadmissibility of Articles 10 and 11 of the Law, and in particular informing us that they have submitted their proposals and comments to the competent ministry three months ago, but the Ministry has not responded to them. If this is true, it is an outrageous ignorance that shows the attitude of this ministry and government to the role and potential of trade unions. I expect the government or the competent minister to explain this relationship, because if the content of the letter is correct, this may already be sufficient reason to reject the proposed law and demand that the content be coordinated with the competent unions first, as provided for by the law on public servants. However, on one of the two issues, this is the right to the spiritual, religious care of police officers, a group of Social Democrats has already pointed out with the proposal that this right and this article in the law be deleted. She felt that it was necessary to assess first whether circumstances and cases existed that would require such a right because of the nature of the work. And if they were, they should also be clearly written, as such a general provision as it was in law allows for the possibility of abuse of this right, which may also mean creating inequalities before the law, but may also interfere with the constitutional principle of freedom of conscience and religion, which also means that this right is not imposed on anyone. In addition to the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members and the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service with a similar content, a broad debate took place in the Committee following the conclusion that a more precise definition of the reasons for the cases and conditions under which, due to the specific nature and circumstances of the work, the religious care of police officers, but only those who wish to do so, is necessary in the law. He also agreed with this by a representative of the Government, who unfortunately did not have the authority to give his consent to the new text of Article 11. Therefore, there are now four amendments to this Article. Proposal for a deletion submitted by the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy and the Slovenian National Party and two amendments, one of the government, or representatives of the four groups of Members, and one of which is submitted by us. All of this shows that this is a serious issue that has been rightly raised by Members and Members of the Social Democrats and that a serious debate is needed. And another question might need our greater attention. This is a proposal for Article 10 which introduces specific possibilities of a fixed-term working relationship for up to five years for work at the external border of the European Union. Given the general government's desire to extend the possibility of working for a certain period of time in public administration, which is also the content of the proposed Law on Public Servants, this proposal may still be logical for specific circumstances. However, when he reads carefully, he is not particularly precise and leaves open many questions about his different uses. Either it's an intentional proposal or it's an impreciseness we don't know. However, this article, which was not put among the questions in the Committee's debate and cannot therefore be amended, requires only the necessary explanations and is expected to be given by the government today. I believe that the proposed law has supported important issues. If there was a willingness in the government and a ruling coalition, it might require a complement. From how the amendments to Article 10 will be adopted and from what will be explained by the Minister, our vote on the law will depend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Let me just inform all Members and Members that the government has not announced any time at this point, which means that it will not be able to answer a variety of questions and will obviously do so again. That's something I have to warn you about because I checked it out. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mr Koren is next on behalf of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party we will propose a law on amendments and additions to the law on police support. The Police Act regulates the powers of the police, its tasks and organisation. The current police organisation and labour legislation have not enabled the employment of police officers for a certain period of more than two years. The bill we have today corrects this and allows the conclusion of a fixed-term employment contract for a maximum of five years. I think that this provision can have positive consequences, because I believe that this will help the country to avoid the multitude of redundant workers that would arise when the Republic of Croatia takes over the protection of the EU's external border. The law also regulates the reimbursement of costs to persons invited by the police to police premises and also regulates the way in which these persons are invited. In addition, the law also provides that the deprivation of liberty to persons extradited by foreign security authorities lasts for a maximum of 48 hours. The draft law is aligned with the law on offences, increases the standard of protection of human rights in the proceedings primarily for detained persons and regarding access to a doctor where detained persons will have the right to be examined by a doctor, who will be chosen by them without the presence of police officers, unless the doctor so requests. In order to increase the efficiency and speed of the forecasting process, polygraph testing will now be possible for non-suspecting individuals if they make the appropriate statement. In view of the specific nature of police work, we also propose an amendment that will allow for the legitimate spiritual care of police officers when the exercise of this right is hampered. This is especially true of police officers who will participate in various missions where they face difficult working conditions. This will make the police service comparable to the military, where this area has been regulated for several years and is also being successfully implemented. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party we will support the proposed law and the amendment of New Slovenia, SDS and SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u193	Thank you very much. And the last one is Mr Bajc on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u194	Mr Vice-President, Ministry of the Interior, colleagues and colleagues. By means of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on police, we align the law on police with the law on offences and the law on criminal procedure. Amendments and additions to the law in question increase the protection of human rights in police procedures, regulate the use of polygraphs in the detection and investigation of crimes, remove doubts about the local jurisdiction of police officers and, last but not least, address the issue of the possibility of religious care of police officers. Since this law deals only with other laws and regulates some other areas that have not been adequately regulated so far, we will support the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to amend and supplement the law on police.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups, moving on to the debate on the article and on the amendments tabled to this article, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 25.10.2005. There is only one article, 11 in the debate, namely the amendment of the SNS Group of Members and the LDS Group of Members, which are the same content. Amendment of SD's parliamentary group and amendment of SDS, SLS and NSI's parliamentary groups. Who wants a word? Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u196	Thank you very much again for your word. Although I have already said in the opening presentation what the Slovenian National Party considers inappropriate in this good and positive law. Once again, Article 7 of the Constitution makes it clear that religious communities and the country are separate. From this point of view, in fact, this provision, which was re-imposed by the government through the side door aggressively, is totally inadequate this time in the police law. And allow me to make one more comment. I have already mentioned the review, which is also an integral part of this law, a review of such arrangements in other European countries. Neither in any country, but France, Belgium, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Austria, Germany, cannot be observed that the Police Act would include a similar article, as included in this proposal for a law, i.e. Article 11. And you know what's terrible. When I hear from Mr Petan about tolerance and how some countries also have religious care in police services. He mentioned the United States of America. This same person or his party or his government, which is not made up of just one political party, is unaware of how well the United States systems have in other areas. And I'm going to rewire myself to sexual violence, a register, a register of pedophiles that this government has not supported or supported. That's terrible. I don't think there's any point in talking about these things anymore. Perhaps it is once again an appeal to the government, which unfortunately today does not have a word to really consider a provision that it has entered into a law that provides for the religious care of police officers to actually withdraw this content from the proposed law, which, again, I stress, is a good law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u198	Thank you, Vice President. I myself supported or supported the two amendments that delete this controversial article, which speaks of religious care in the police. It seems to me that this would be the easiest way to remove all the dilemmas and later, in some other form, resolve any need to satisfy this religious care even in the police, if not in the police at all. In all of this, what I have heard before is that the government has not reserved time to answer any questions or comments at all. So, as it seems, this cylindrical man works so that he does not take the time to politicize or interpret his decisions by means of the opposition, indicating only that they are firmly determined to adopt the law without debate on it or that the debate is purely passively adopted and not defined. This report, which was written by the Committee, contains the text correctly written. Mr Gorenjak will recall because he expressed it himself, where he wrote "and the representative of the applicant agreed in the debate in this provision that it would be good for her text to be drafted more precisely, etc. ".. So I must say that, given that I have attended the committee, I expected that when the proposer comes into the environment in which he has to be empowered, he would transfer this dilemma in the form of an appropriate amendment through the way it should be. If Mr Gorenak shows me what is written, it is far from what was said then and there. Obviously, the representative of the proposer at the time, although he did not have the authority, did not seriously mean when he proposed or thought he would be able to propose one appropriate provision for all. So in this law, which speaks of what actually impresses me, it is slowly lying down in all of our pores of laws, which we accept more ridicule than it is true, here is said why the government would not actually give us a list of the law in which it thinks in some way to bring faith, the church or these related forms of religion and churches, which also have a special city, but would not have trouble breaking through every law, they would simply know it waits for us, raises hands and lets go because it is so and so unnecessary to talk about it. I think you're underestimating us all. So when you propose such a provision, in fact, you continue to deny the constitutional provisions on the separation of religion and the state, you deny, in fact, that we have more religious communities because this law is written literally for one religion, for one church, because it is simply impossible to realize everything that every police officer could actually want to come to the right spiritual and religious care, not to mention that I am actually getting symptomatic, that all public servants will, as it seems, have to go through this phase, but if now, before the soldiers, the police must now, the railways, the teachers, the doctors, eventually we will have for all those who are working in public services, almost already compulsory religious and spiritual care and I think that this country will not go in the right direction. The law, it was said, that allows flexibility, is that flexibility is governed by a minister, cannot be good. The law must be precise, the law must be so precise that it does not allow doubts that it does not specifically allow this flexibility, and if the applicant or the one who advocates flexibility and leaves it to the minister so asserts, I think he is in grave error. When I attended the debate, and when I read this text from the working report, I will also be confronted with a text that is so clearly written that it cannot be more clearly, but by Mr Kokalj, who is not here now. It reads: "It has also been expressed that the possibility of religious spiritual care could contribute to the more humane conduct of the police." So, I don't know what this police is like today. I thought she was human enough to be able to do what she must be taught how to do. Likely, the church or the religious and spiritual care of those who will mannify his actions are now. If that is true, then imagine what kind of police we have, so that the coalition Member proposes that this act be manned. This shows that these police officers, if the coalition so thinks, did not go through the appropriate form of schooling in primary or secondary school, did not experience the appropriate form of education, did not experience the appropriate form of education, and in my opinion, instead of any spiritual and religious care they would need a better psychologist, at the end of the day perhaps a psychiatrist to put them in order if they themselves did not know all this form of training that they had to have before taking the job and after receiving or working to ensure human treatment of citizens, or citizens of Slovenia. In order to avoid all these doubts about the relevance of such or a different article, we believe that it is most prudent and appropriate to accept the amendment proposed by the SNS and the LDS, which means deleting this Article. And somewhere in another law, perhaps in a law that we call Sturm’s law, which we are waiting to receive into our hands, we are actually ensuring that this spiritual and religious provision is carried out, not so sporadicly with each law individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u199	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. Potsch. Then let Mrs. Lavtizar Bebler be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, first of all, thank you for the announcement that the government does not want to talk to us, but that it has its messages, and now it is up to us to decide. I must say that I am sad and at the same time protesting, I am seriously protesting against this way of working as a government. Whoever was at the meeting of the home committee knows that we have had a serious discussion on Article 10 and that the government representative - I do not criticise the government representative, Mr Gorenak, but the powers he had - have communicated that he has with much agreement, but that he does not have the authority to reach an agreement on the content of the disputed article on the home working body. This is already very controversial because the parent’s working bodies are designed to do just that in order to find common solutions and formulate texts. Now the government has not taken the time to do so at a meeting of the National Assembly. In order to be corrected, I must say, Mr Gorenak called me and told me that there would be an amendment in the government to be tabled by the parliamentary groups. I'm not gonna say his comments because they were probably personal. However, I would like to say that in preparing this amendment, although promised, neither the parliamentary group nor the government have cooperated with me as a proposaler. So much for that. Second. The closest thing to me is to delete paragraphs 73a and 11th. But I know that's not gonna happen, or I'll be terribly surprised if that happens. That is why, after the discussion in my mother's working body, I have proposed an amendment that I think would be even more acceptable and better, so that we will get the article in force, or the text as proposed by the government. And now whether they are between the proposed text of the government and my difference. Yes, and they are, in my opinion, very essential. Look ahead. The government says the policeman who wants it has the right to religious care adapted to his professional requirements. What's that? Indeterminately, indeterminately, this is decided by the government in its sub-legislative act. It goes on to write, in particular in situations where the exercise of this right is difficult for him, it is also said in others, especially in those where it is difficult for him to exercise this right. I think that this is a completely open solution that allows everything, but also admits that it is a difficult situation. And we talked at a meeting of the mother's working body about if, just because he is not in a position to be able to carry out his religious spiritual care because, under such working circumstances, he specifically mentioned if the police unit in Afghanistan is, to say where there is no Catholic church, it is probably a desire and a possibility to make it possible. Not when he is at home on Sunday, but by chance on Sunday, he cannot fulfill his obligation to express his religious feelings in the evening, morning, or the day before. That's why I think it's unacceptable. And secondly, it says that the minister only determines the organization of this spiritual provision. So the organization decides to say in what form, in what way, in how many people, where, and not the conditions and other things. And now look at my article, our proposal, to enable police officers who, because of their work obligations, cannot carry out religious care. Because of their work obligations and they cannot, these are two conditions which are distinctly different from those written in the amendment of the two groups of Members. And what's more, the cases, the conditions and the means of enforcement. It is not an organization, but cases where it is not possible to fulfil the conditions that must be met, then a way of realization, which does not mean that a steady step will be set for me in the police force, because it can then travel across Slovenia and will not be able to do so, but that religious care will be provided when such cases and conditions are indeed met. I think it would be a solution that is consistent with the Constitution. I also say that I want much more precise provisions than in the Defence Act. Because when I was preparing this session, I read the rules that Dr. Anton Grizod signed at the time. And I hope that Minister Mate will never issue any regulations under this provision in the law, even if what the two coalition parties are proposing has been adopted. I propose that, if we cannot accept the deletion amendment, we support our amendment, which we have tabled on behalf of the Socialists' Group of Members, and this only leads to a better solution than the one proposed by the Government, which will leave complete freedom and the possibility for the Minister to decide for himself in what way, on many open issues, and without need, to organise religious care, I say, even when there is no need for work and it is therefore possible to say that it goes beyond the constitutional obligation which the State has at this point in terms of ensuring conscience and religion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lavtijar Bebler has the floor, then Dr. Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to express my indignant opposition that the government has not declared for a period of time that would be available to talk to us here about the law that it has put into the legislative procedure. I appreciate that this is an extremely bullying and indescribable arrogance on the part of the government, after it has been seen on the internal policy and justice committee itself that this is an object on which there are different opinions that this is an object that some Members consider to be a constitutionally controversial decision and, of course, the easiest thing to do here is to obsess, silence and think about, dogs bark, but the caravan goes on. So, I am outraged at the fact that this government leaves us, the opposition, in such a role that we are simply powerless, and then, like yesterday, Minister Virant tells us that you are the opposition, because you are paid for it, so be the opposition. This is a great deal of arrogance, but I was already a Member in the first democratically elected Parliament in 1990, I have not experienced it, and unfortunately I have spent some time in Europe during this time, if I say so, specifically in the constitutional world of Europe, which deals mainly with areas such as human rights, plural democracy and the rule of law. Now that I'm back, it's harder to tolerate such schicanosis, I can't believe it's true. When we talk about the law on police, we need to be aware that it is a specific area, an area where it is a matter of state coercion, because, of course, the government must take on even greater responsibility for what it offers in some legislation and what it then proposes for admission. Here I would also support my fellow Member, Milan Petka, who said that we are actually meeting every day with some legal proposals that are trying to enforce a particular, privileged role of a religious community. Perhaps you should give us a list of laws in which you will introduce a special privileged position of the priests of the Roman Catholic Church, a special privileged position, I do not know who will know what awaits us. And one more thing, you have to make a financial assessment of these things. See, it is unacceptable that it is now in order that we find that, in every area that the government proposes in order, it also suggests that a step is needed, that there is a need for spiritual care, as we will then run into railway workers, firefighters, Members and Members of Parliament. Of course, I think we would have needed some spiritual care a long time ago, but what is happening here is that some Members are obviously not actually balanced internally. I think it is high time that this is done and that we talk as the legislator has to talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u203	Please, if you'd like to speak, please sign up for the debate. Only Mrs. Lavtijar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u204	It is very easy with your hand to swing and say, the one who talks is somehow burdened with some ideology or something. No, ladies and gentlemen, I am not burdened with any ideology and nothing like that, but I am burdened by the fact that laws in these areas, which are particularly sensitive under constitutional regulation, must be in line with European standards in the field of human rights, plural democracy and the rule of law. And that is all I expect from this Parliament and also from this government, which does not take a minute to try to explain to us here why it felt that such a provision as it proposes is necessary and justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much. It's Dr. Slavinec's turn, and then Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So, I also, of course, support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy to delete Article 11, because, as has already been seen from the debate on the labour force and, of course, here too, it is clear that in this form the article is not prepared to follow all the above-mentioned acts, from the constitution forward and, above all, to ensure the continued separation of churches from the country, as well as to ensure the equality of all members of the police, i.e. all policemen. I will recall for myself the fact that surely there are members of different religious denominations among the police. It is a pity that the government has voluntarily taken the floor, since the article defines the organisation of religious spiritual care and the manner in which this right is exercised in the police by the minister and the minister is here, that they might ask him how he designed it and how he will carry it out. He probably doesn't have any record of how many police officers belong to a particular religion. Last but not least, the definition of religion of confession may be used for statistical purposes only, according to my conduct. I also point out, of course, that the areas in Slovenia, in particular in Prekmurje, where the Roman Catholic Church is not a majority and I am now interested in whether this spiritual provision will be provided every day throughout the territory of Slovenia. It is my hope that everyone here is acceptable that it is not a suitable solution. However, I think it is quite appropriate that, as we have heard before, when police officers go abroad, to dangerous countries, especially those where religion is different from Roman Catholics - because, after all, the hotspots and wars are created because of their faith and when they perform their police duty there - that they will be given the opportunity to provide, if not, especially for their safety, because they will substantially expose themselves to the extent that they are looking for their churches in those environments. That police officers have to maintain a psychophysical condition for a longer period of time and that their care, that is, religious, spiritual care, is therefore urgently needed, is very difficult to accept. There are many professions where they must also maintain an even higher psychophysical condition for more than 8 hours. Finally, I find it difficult to introduce myself to a surgeon who has been operating for more than 8 hours a day and who will need this supply in the meantime. So, in such a form, of course, I hope that it is not as meaningful as it is in such a form allowed, in such a form it certainly does not seem appropriate to me, nor does it seem to me that it is appropriate to compare the police with the military, because the duties, burdens and timing of the police are significantly different from those of the military and my opinion is that this matter can be more easily and more specifically defined in a law that the government has prepared on religious communities and I am sure that police with their professional training and also with their own experience, approach and their spiritual breadth and integrity will not be able to provide their psychophysical condition during their service, then, as I am sure, God will not be able to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac is next, and then Mr Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Of course, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. I'm kind of disappointed that the government won't be able to explain to us because of the time constraints for which I believe it is the fault of the European Union countries having comparable legislation. Finally, I will also look at this article from the other side, through the privileged position of some of the services the government wants to create. Everyone knows, at least I'm sure everyone decides to be a cop on their own conscience. And putting police officers in some privileged position because of their form of work seems unserious and completely unnecessary to me. Last but not least, if we introduce spiritual provisions into the police force, as someone mentioned before, they can also create the building blocks for them to want spiritual care. Last but not least, I wonder if the government in amending the Law on Members foresees spiritual provision in the National Assembly, and our profession is the same as the police, or as any other. With regard to the argument that the introduction of spiritual care will have an impact on the better development of the personality or humanity of the police, I believe that this government would be in urgent need of a priest in its law. I don't know if it's worth trying to convince the ruling coalition now that our amendment is well-intentioned and that, in fact, it follows the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, even if those of you here today representing the ruling coalition were able to convince this moment, it would still be too small to accept the amendment given how many of you are present in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the word and then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you very much again. First of all, I would like to say that I have no ambition to defend the government, but I can say that at least a little bit of satisfaction can be expressed over the fact that when we proposed to restrict the rights of all those employed by the police to police officers, it did not prevent the adoption of such a provision. This has already been a sign for us of, say, cooperation at the time, but of course it would be most welcome if representatives who are here to discuss it with us should now also discuss it with us. I will say my position with regard to these four amendments, I would be most pleased if I could and will support this first amendment, which has been repeated twice, because it seems correct to me. However, I do know that this amendment will not be adopted and then the rest of the way is to think about what to do with the second or the third and the fourth amendments. The third amendment is slightly worse than the first one and the second one for us still good and worthy of support, and I will vote for it. And then there's this last one that's been signed by three parties, and it's embarrassing because if we reject it, then we'll be in conflict with what some in the public service already have in our army. And I'm going to end it because it's about graduation, about letting go at the acceptance rate, but I'm going to support it because I understand this acceptability in a way that if the first and second amendments are good, then the third amendment of the Social Democrats is a little bit worse, and the fourth is the one that's still on the acceptability line. But I read it in the middle. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u211	Please, keep it down, those of you who don't have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u212	But I have read in between - this has now been enabled - also the rulebook that was adopted in the previous mandate in the military, and I must say that we can be quite pleased that we are not accepting anything so stupid here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the word and then Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this amendment. I am surprised by the debate of some colleagues who today miss the position of the government. If the opposition were so pleased to listen to the government, these warnings would be well-intentioned; but we know that this is actually just an attempt at a debate that is not substantive, which is already out of content. That is why I would prefer to touch the very contents of this amendment and this article. Since Bebler's colleague mentioned MEPs earlier, yes, because, see, after many European parliaments with a slightly longer democratic tradition than we do, you have the possibility of spiritual care in parliaments - why not? - even in Brussels! I don't know where you are, ma'am, you say you've been in Europe a long time, but obviously this Europe doesn't work on you as it should. This is something completely normal, even in parliaments. I don't know how you would react if someone came here with the idea that, however, for those Members we believe, it would be possible for a room where you can do, if you want, this spiritual provision, or spiritual deepening or prayer, as it is called, in a space that is meant to do so. You may find this ridiculous, of course, but this is some normal democratic process that today in all democratics, and if they show you, say, in Italian or Hungarian, any other parliament, they have something to show you. [[...]] What can we show in this House? We don't even have a monument where we could say, look, these are deserving men for the creation of Slovenia, or anything like that. When are we going to start these matters, my fellow Members, and my fellow Members? When will we begin to be proud of our history? Will we continue to listen to all this destruction and what is not, Mrs. Potrata, because you will get the word? [[...]] It's not just my problem, it's the problem with the national consciousness of some people who just [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u215	Mr. Sok, you're moving a little further away from the darkness and the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u216	Not really, since we are discussing a very important matter today. I think so. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u217	We're talking about the police law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u218	I know, and I know about spiritual care. And given the situation in which police officers often find themselves, it seems perfectly normal for those who want to do so to be able to do so. And if you allow me, Madam Vice-President, here yesterday we discussed a bill proposed by Ambassador Gulič, and it was stated in Article 18 that 25 people in this country could form their faith and be given justice under this law, like all religious communities. I understand very well, Mrs. Potter. That's 25 people. How did you take it yesterday? Today, when we propose to provide spiritual care not only, as the police union of a religious community says. This does not say in the law to all those who are capable of doing so and to whom members feel this and need it. [[...]] I cannot agree with you, my colleague Potrce has pointed out to the union's letter that the union points to this and somehow aims to make it possible for only one religious community. Where did they get that idea? And that the union is having problems with the costs that the state will devote to this purpose. It's not a union thing. The union thing is different. Nor is it a union matter if a police officer is employed for a certain period of time, how he will be admitted to a working relationship. You can calm your opposition colleagues down!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u219	Please raise your hand if you want to discuss it. Mr. Sok, go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u220	They're very nervous, if something is said to them in whatever kind of call they're in, they're reacting to them, I don't know, like a bee or a hornet is attacking them, and we have to listen to all these phone calls. So one Sy, I'd like to talk about the amendment, but you're disturbing me, you obviously don't want to listen and you can't concentrate. [[...]] Okay, okay, okay. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u221	Mr. Zagorac, you will then have procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u222	I told you about the amendment. I won't support it. This solution in marriage is good, although the union can have its own opinion, but this is the union's opinion, but I think that the union should go after those who are union content, not what the union actually does not. So they are asking how the employment contract will be concluded, whether it will be for an official job, or for a policeman in the police, then if it should be allocated to all jobs. As far as spiritual care is concerned, they write more nonsense and question what is not a problem and what is not their job. So they should make sure that the workers in the workplace have everything that belongs to them. I would understand the union to demand even more, but not to demand for its employees less than the employer offers them. They demand less than they're offered. What kind of union is this? This union is only because it is and when we are members, when they realize that such a union does not represent them as it could, then this union will become some normal union and will do what we really expect it to do. I think that this solution is very good, that it does not actually favour any religious community, but I can admit that religious communities are of different size and different strengths. What hurts and bothers you a lot. That's a fact. This is just like in Parliament. One party is much larger because it has won much more in elections and has more decision-making power than one that is much smaller and usually finds itself in opposition. This is a reality called parliamentary democracy, which we have decided consciously with plebiscite in 1990 in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I will read the second paragraph of Article 75 very clearly very slowly, but please keep it in mind. At a meeting of the assembly, no one shall speak until the chairman gives him the floor. The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. Mr. Zagorac asked for a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u224	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u225	Procedurally takes precedence over the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u226	I must say that I am very concerned that we have nothing to show in the Slovenian Parliament as opposed to Italian, and I would like to suggest to the national assembly, in particular in view of its composition, that we consider putting a chapel in the lobby until it has spiritual supplies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u227	Mr Zagorac, I do not know how this was related to the application of the Rules of Procedure. The Replica has Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u228	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. True, some parliamentary parties are larger, some are smaller, but if I understand correctly, we are here from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia a much larger party than you, Nova Slovenija. So we understand each other, there's no problem here. But after what you said, I believe you have a concentration problem. You spoke very confusedly, mixed apples and pears, and above all, you were disfigured because you were speaking out loud when I was talking about the speaker when he gave me the Chairman's word. And you asked me what work I was in and what Europe I was in. Yeah. Speaking of prayer rooms, it's me, making a prayer room in the National Assembly, probably being welcome for a lot of people, not a problem at all. But we're not talking about prayer rooms in this marriage, we're talking about Kurats in this law, and that's the difference. You'll admit that. And the Kurats, who are commanded by the law, who are paid by our tax collectors. That's another problem. And the problem is, as we have already talked about equality before the law today, whether in fact religious communities are equal and working freely with us, and whether we are actually citizens before the law, that is what we are talking about here today. Therefore, it is a shame that the government has not notified the time when you would like to talk to us about these matters. Whether we are making a law here that will respect the rights of all citizens and citizens, or whether we are mixing here, to make such a law that will give only one part of the citizens and citizens right and allow them some privilege. And whether it is right to establish in this police law that police officers are entitled to spiritual care, or then run into other categories of people and professions, where this spiritual care is not provided and the question arises whether it is the spiritual care that is needed by people in different sectors or whether it is something else. In a variety of industries, there's probably more to a psychologist than a Kurat, maybe a psychiatrist, but that's something we need to talk about. And the government, which comes with some concrete proposal here, at least what it is, should give a reasonable and convincing explanation. And we Members aren't just here [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u229	Three minutes for replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u230	and some dolls, but probably those who, with responsibility to their constituents, make certain specific decisions. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, you know that only an exceptional replica of the replica is allowed, and in this case I will not allow it. We're going back to the debate tracks. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I don't think it was an insult. Sign up for the debate, Mr. Sok, please. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Sok, please report to the debate. I'm not putting a replica on the replica. It's Mr. Friend, then Mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will support our party's amendment and add the following to the debate. Why police officers really need spiritual care. The labour legal relationship shall be concluded in accordance with the collective agreement and the applicable labour law. After this law, every person has the right to one weekend of the month, and then ladies, gentlemen, or those old comrades and comrades, can go to church and get the necessary care, confession, hospitality and everything. I don't see the need, it's not the army. The army is called to another area, cut off from the normal home world, where spiritual care is needed. Therefore, if we take the same logic, not only do we need a prayer room in the National Assembly, but also a confessional for all those who lie enough so that they can confess and go home every day, they will wash away their sins. This would be pointless and even unfair to taxpayers, because they are also socially threatened and actually poor, and these layers will also have to pay for this upgrade to these structures. And there's something else I'd like to point out. Take a look at the budget and you will see how many items there are that cover religious communities and how much budget money we spend for that reason. And you can think about it if we don't have to put that money somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u233	Thank you very much. It's mag. After that, I will read that there will be no dilemma, so far I have Mr Gulic, Mr Petan, Mr Kokal and Mr Sok on the list. That's a list so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Europe and European examples were discussed. In relation to religion, the most important issue in Europe right now is the establishment of tolerance, tolerance between all religions and the call for it not to develop and emphasize the value of any religion or free religion or religious freedom, to which I then consider agnosticism and atheism, does not emphasise. Why am I talking about this? Yesterday it was possible to hear that some are still looking at the world through red glasses. I admit, everything I say, I do, I work from my belief and my world view. I'm not defending anyone from doing this. But I defend myself before others force me to look at the world and tell me how my view of the world is not equal to theirs, is less valuable and bad. Why this introduction? Because there was a talk about European practice. There are special prayer rooms in Strasbourg, but not only for one religion, but also for other religions that are more numerous in Europe, according to tolerance. In Europe, the situation of churches in countries is also very different. In the country of Slovenia, the Catholic Church is not a state church. And this is where my problem begins now, because I see that with legal changes in a whole series of solutions, some would like to do so in order to become the Catholic Church of State. However, as a Member of the National Assembly, as an elected Member, I object. I will therefore support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party, or the other amendment, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, to delete this article, which speaks of spiritual care in the police. We have proposed, I would say, a more understandable solution to the government proposal. As for the union's question of whether or not it can deal with matters of religious supply, I advise investors or signatories of this amendment to look at what is written in their amendment. It says here that a policeman who wants to do so has the right to religious spiritual care adapted to his professional requirements. But as far as I know, they're in union business. Thus, the union may also discuss the issue of spiritual care if it bothers someone to deal with these issues and should not follow through on them. I will not support this amendment under order number 4 because of this inadequacy, as well as other inadequacies. Because I don't know what that means or what the Minister will sign about what the organisation of spiritual care and how this right is to be exercised in the police. I hope it's not the way it was carried out in the military. What has happened to the right to the spiritual care of soldiers and their family members, and we have read quite a bit in the past year. That I have quite a few opportunities to talk about how the Roman Catholic Church is becoming a state church, let me draw your attention to one more thing. Of course, I can only refer to the media where I read it. In this case, I am referring to an activity that is in the interest of people, not of the police, the judiciary or any other activity, but of those who find themselves in such a position that they need spiritual care. For I myself recognize that the type of professions which, due to stress, are such and I advocate any form that helps these people to regain their internal balance. These are many professions, not only do police have to deal with situations that increase stress, but others are, as they say, like that. Well, I would like to say how, say, the Catholic priest has the advantage over representatives of other religious denominations when it comes to the rights or spiritual care of detainees. Such a Kurat is simply made for an employee of the administration and does not need to obtain the consent of a court responsible for an individual detainee and has free access to a detainee. Other believers need to wait so long for such spiritual provisions that their religious representative will receive permission from the court to visit him. Here are those things that point to unequal treatment, despite the constitutional rules that all of us are equal. It would be good if some things read precisely what some of them mean in the proposals of the law that some of you are now so violently attacking. As it is said, I do not see the need for police personnel in all circumstances to have the right to have the spiritual care of all positions in all places in such a way as to be privileged according to their position, since this can only be defended in those circumstances where, on the other hand, they cannot reach such care, and this is defined in our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Gulic is next, and then Mr Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u236	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Again, because I think that the debate does interfere with what we should have been talking about yesterday, it was not given to us, in general, about the relationship between religious communities, their members, the state and, of course, the citizens who can or may not be in any religious community. Today, however, we are talking about a law about the police, which in a way confers two privileges, that is to say, two privileges. First of all, the privilege of police officers to have religious care in contrast with all other professions has been a great deal of talk, and of course a second privilege, a privilege for larger religious communities to enter this place, of course. I think it is best, of course, that this article is deleted and, of course, that we adopt as soon as possible and as clearly as possible such a law on religious communities, which will at least be governed by this part of my proposal, which, of course, allowed all religious communities and, in fact, spiritual care for all believers, whatever religion they already are, and that, in fact, this path, which is now emerging, is full of some shortcuts and passages in every law with some additions, in some way prevent our legislation from being transparent and clear. Now it is that our constitution becomes a heart that beats for itself, and everything else works purely separately, with some exceptions, additions, orders, regulations, regulations, changes of laws and this certainly for the rule of law, for some consistent culture is not good. When we talk about the rights of believers, we must not forget the confusion that arises when the rights of one religious community and the rights of the State begin to be confused. To date, this has never brought any good in all world history. One of the privileges came from the other, from one segregation to another, from one new stigma, and certainly our Parliament is one of those points that can, of course, stop such matters. I believe in the benevolence and benevolence of all those we are discussing here today to suit people, but what we also had to learn from the past, what we had to learn from the times when these things became then filters for people, or for employment with police officers, for example, or for citizens under consideration when they are being treated by police. People, don't joke. We intervene in such areas, which have shown many times that they cannot and must not be solved in such a way that everything mixes and gets sick. Nothing good will come of such a brooch and let's be smart this time, because it's not really about not knowing a lot of things, accepting the SNS amendment or our amendment, saying that we should know this and focus on the law on religious communities, on the law on equality of religious communities, on religious freedom, open this public debate, let's say there and we can implement these things after all else, but not to make a mess across all the legislation and ultimately something else, the constitutions, but we don't take into account at that time, because the situation is different. But that's not how it works. Our constitution is clear. It makes it clear. We don't have a law. But we have a 30-year-old law that can be mixed up, obviously, very well, and I don't know now whether it's really the interest of the government and the rulings that this law doesn't come into being, and it's not in the procedure yet. If we shrug, it is matters concerning all citizens, not just believers, and let us go into an open and clear, fair debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Petan has the floor and then Mr Kokalj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! So now it has only been shown how right our parliamentary group is, where an opinion has emerged and I have had the honour of reading it a few minutes ago, where I said that we represent the view that perhaps the most wind or words have received the content that is perhaps the least important. This is the spiritual provision we are now talking about. And that's what I'm saying based on the facts, and I'm going to say a few things right now. The first fact is this. We had a letter from a union. I'm not gonna figure out what this union can do. I don't want to discuss this, but we can ask ourselves which union it was. If I have the right information, if I don't have the right ones, please correct me and I'll apologize. This union that wrote this is supposed to have eight members. If it's not true, fix me. The union, which has eight members, is not representative, cannot be. That union, which is representative and has a few 10 times as many members, and he didn't write anything. It is said that he may agree with such a form. That's the first time. Another time. The solution given regarding this spiritual provision is not pure innovation. The example was with the armed forces, and even a little more restrictive is here, so that no one would see that this was all liberal, so that now everyone, I don't know, could go to spiritual care and something like that. That's not true. This content in the law governing the provision of spiritual supplies in the armed forces, as I recall, was adopted in the previous term. In the previous mandate, this option was not a majority option, and that content was adopted. That's what you say, dear colleagues and colleagues, that's your option. But I'm not criticizing her that we understand each other, I'm just explaining the facts. Such a solution has been proposed by your Minister and has also been confirmed by your Government, and the solution has also been adopted in Parliament. And if I am not mistaken, in the previous mandate, we have accepted almost by consensus all of the solutions or most of the solutions relating to the armed forces; perhaps one of the individuals was against, which may have even been wrong. We've taken these solutions with consensus. For that time, this solution was good, but today it's all "rompom" about this solution when it comes to another segment, that's for the police. And, I'm sorry, I can't help but say that if you used the word to mix, if it ever got mixed up, then it's probably when we took that basic form. But I'm still saying it wasn't a mix-up, and today it's not a mix-up. Only then would it suit us, but today someone who backed up those contents does not fit in with something else. Even more, such a solution proved to be good in the armed forces. Your minister specifically stressed and commended this, and I agree with him, and I also agreed at the time, in any case I agreed. You could say that if we copied the contents here, then that imitation wasn't bad. And there's one more thing. That's what I'm gonna say, and you can comment any way you want. I'm not one to say what the previous government has done is all crap. I've never said that before, and I won't say that now. In that case, I'll take advantage of it. If the solution is good, why not imitate it? And one more thing. I have no fear of just introducing spiritual care in all areas now, since there was a fear of being detected. I am sure and I think that most of us also think that the military and police professions are a little more specific than others, even though they belong to the public administration; the difference is, I think, even the big difference between the individual segments in this state administration. So I don't see any fear if we accept this solution. In fact, this will indicate that the solutions that we have already adopted have proved to be good are not bad if we implement them elsewhere, for what is comparable. So I don't see any fear here, and I don't have to lose so many words. Now I'll get back to the beginning. I am sure that we do not need to waste so many words and so much energy in this area, because there is no 'fun fun', but the solutions have already been tested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kokal to the floor and then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. Given that this matter, which is related to these amendments, has already been discussed on the committee and that I was then very quickly summarized in the media, if the spiritual care of the police meant that they would no longer respect the law by letter, I would now very much like to quote about the magnetogram of what I actually said there, if, by chance, Mr. Pollen, who is close to reporting on the work of the National Assembly, I would ask him to fully rewrite my debate then and even now. Personally, I want more of a human police, a police force that can practically always judge in stressful situations for a man who meets him, if not for a police officer. The man the police are dealing with, and then the policeman must be the one who can read the man and the situation and not always act only by the letter of the law, but must be human in particular and draw from this situation for the defence of the law and especially for the man what is best at that moment. I think constant spiritual care can only help. I am very surprised by the amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party because, on behalf of the national, the adjective has a national one. The vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes are included in religious beings, if we only look at statistics, people are considered to be religious beings, and this is certainly a very important part of national identity. So I wonder how a person can distinguish when to think and act as a religious and spiritual being when not. And if I look at it, this amendment requires that police officers, in fact, when they're on duty, they can't actually be a religious being, that's impossible. And I find such an amendment completely unacceptable from a constitutional point of view. We have heard that this is a privilege if the spiritual care of police officers were guaranteed. I don't know about the privilege of who it is. It was mentioned earlier that it was the privileges of priests or those who would provide this spiritual supply. That reason seems completely to me to be attracted to hair, these people are at work, these people serve and provide for those who want it. So there's actually no privilege here. But if it is a privilege to believe, then we have to ask ourselves where we really are in Slovenia right now. We forbid people, the vast majority of the Slovenians, to have this privilege of believing even when they are in the ministry. This is the only thing that can follow directly from this amendment. And this is a very bad stigmatization of those who believe. Mr Gulič used to say about stigmatisation, that is exactly what stigmatisation is, if those people who believe or who believe still give a label that we are privileged to do so. The Constitution assures us and it is the country's duty to ensure the rights of the private and public believers. Belief isn't just private. The constitution clearly states, and let's stop this ideological struggle. That's enough for 50, 60 years, give us once the right to be who we are. That's all. Spiritual care only means that those police officers who feel this need, and thank God if they feel it, I am sure that they can do their job better if they are supported in their work in the whole dimension of the human dimension. If we limit this right only to the time when they are not in service, which is taken from the interpretation of those who are not in favor of this spiritual care to understand, then of course, as I said before, in critical situations, we take the fundamental right that these people have. What if a police officer is in action, which is real, carrying a weapon, and the fact that police officers have a shorter working time shows that he has a specific job and they need all the support they want. What if this man is in action, and I'm going to say, he's hurt and he wants spiritual care, and we can't approve of your interpretation or the minister. Is that okay? I don't think so. But according to this interpretation, that's exactly how the law can be interpreted. That is why I support the amendment tabled by the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups and oppose the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, because I think that this way we continue to stigmatise those who are considered religious beings even during work.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Sok has the word and then Mr Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I wanted to replicate my colleague Bebler, but you didn't give me this option, so I applied again in the available time. I don't think you're going to interrupt me because I'm going to replicate her because I think she was insulting me in her statement, and on top of everything else, she bragged. She said I had concentration issues and I was confused. This, of course, may be your opinion, entirely legitimate, and I feel it as an insult. I will not answer that question, I would like to remind you of the Slovenian river, which says: Thank you very much, the price is small. As far as your conclusion is concerned that LDS is a significantly larger customer than New Slovenia, of course, because you have had all the power for many years, but I am sure it will not be for long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Before I put a replica into this debate, which I did not refer to as a replica, but as a debate, I would like to say the following. Firstly, after the Rules of Procedure, replication is not allowed in principle, except in exceptional cases and I did not consider that case to be exceptional, especially since there is still time to discuss. The second thing I would like to mention on this occasion is this. The border between an acceptable and offensive debate is very often very blurry. And I don't think anyone here or outside this hall has the courage and the ability to draw this limit at any moment. But there is only one way to avoid insulting debates, so that we do not accuse and refer to each other, to discuss only the subject, the amendments, the subject, not the persons. If we stick to this, there will, of course, be no offense in this hall. And I hope so. Otherwise, no one can help us, no ethical code, no God. Now I'm giving a replica of Mrs. Lovtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u244	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. So I apologize deeply to Mr Sok. You were talking about concentration issues yourself, and I believed you, and that's all. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u245	Now I ask you to stop the replicas and incriminations and give the floor to Mr Kumer, and then it will be Mrs Žgajner Tavš's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u246	Thank you for your word, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'm going to quote Article 41 of the first two paragraphs, because we're talking a lot about the constitution. It says, "The confession of faith and other definitions in private and public life is free." And the second paragraph: "No one is obliged to define their religious and other beliefs." So when we talk about this in the constitution, not because I can read first: "Parents have the right to provide religious and moral education to their children in accordance with their beliefs. The guidance of children on religious and moral education must be in line with the child's age and maturity and with his freedom of conscience, religion and other definitions or beliefs." I was quoting for freedom because, of course, some of you weren't talking about freedom. However, my debate will focus on the following. I will come from the fact that this is another partial solution and because this is a partial solution, of course, we have problems. If we had, as Mr or colleague Gulič said, the things resolved in the roof law on religious communities, and would have resulted in solutions to the police law, we would have fewer problems. Therefore, of course, this solution, which is in this law, according to the Constitution and the rights of citizens and citizens, before the law, where we are all equal, this solution makes citizens and citizens unequal before the law. Some who will have the Kurat have this religious spiritual care provided, some, I am now specifically talking about the police, and they do not have it because they will not have this Kurat or this coordinator. And my second question, which is, who has allowed it or who knows that it has done an empirical examination within the police, how many citizens and citizens who perform this function are segmented by individual religious communities, to say that most of them are of course Roman Catholic or Christian religions and use this Korat. So once again, the original sin is because we don't have the things solved in the roof marriage and we weren't ready to discuss it yesterday and in the future. If we had that, we wouldn't have any problems today. And second of all, I think that, especially when it comes to these subtle, very, very much as I would say, personal things to people, to citizens and citizens, and we are this legislative body with legal solutions, when we privilege or grant the right of one religious community that tramples or walks this same right and privilege to another or to the 25th religious community, we have made a mistake. When it comes to faith, this intimate matter, it is our job to protect the minority, including by means of legal solutions. And that is why I once again support all those who have spoken, even if it is a religious community that has 500 or 1,000 of its members, it must have constitutionally and legally guaranteed that right or that privilege, as you wish, whether it goes to the police, whether it goes to the military or, I don't know, those you listed today. And here's the catch of everything and this debate. With this legal solution, we do not follow the constitutional category set out in Article 41, and I think that this solution is contrary to Article 41 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u247	Thank you, Mr. Kumar. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u248	Thank you very much. In fact, I will say that some speakers before me could actually applaud for the blue words spoken under the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party or the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. However, it is important that those who utter wise words know what these words mean. You know what I'm actually going to say to those who are now, in saying, I hope they know the difference between spirituality and religion. I believe that I am taking good care of my spiritual care, but which is not subject to religious ideals, and this is also in some way the point of this amendment, which we have tabled in the Slovenian National Party, which, after all, follows a higher one, should be an ideal, or a regulation, which we certainly respect in the Slovenian National Party. It is called the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And allow another explanation. I will say that I am proud to belong to the Slovenian National Party, the party fighting for the fair distribution of social transfers under the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Squire Tavsh. Mr Potč has the floor to prepare Mr Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u250	Thank you very much. The debate I am listening to today increasingly convinces me that, in fact, rational thinking and the search for possible paths between extremes in this National Assembly is a fruitless work. That's what I'm trying to say, and I don't think that's good. Both of us do not want to define ourselves until the amendment we tabled, but it is very different from the amendment tabled by the SDS and New Slovenia Group. And I'm not going to advocate for him, because there's no time, and I have to say I don't have the will. However, I firmly believe that the problem of how to implement the Constitution at this point is also a multilayer and my understanding of the implementation of this constitutional provision is in many ways different from what has been spoken today from many lips. For I believe that we have an obligation in the National Assembly to settle this issue, that this is very complicated and difficult and that we should be patient with each other when we try to deal with it. I think this especially because the difference in size and the importance of the church in Slovenia is awakening especially in recent times the feeling that this distinction wants to increase and that it wants to privilege a particular church, I mean. The Christian Church in Slovenia, and to try to introduce itself gradually into the state life and public decision-making its influence and its special position. But that's not good, and I think it's something that needs to be said in the National Assembly as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Gulic has the floor. Get Mr. Kovacic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u252	Dear Mr Cuckati, dear colleagues and colleagues! I am speaking again, not only to repeat that we actually have to stick to the framework set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but also to what I said earlier about the so-called roof law, the law on religious communities and religious freedom. Of course, I'm not optimistic enough to think that this would save everything, but, however, some things could be put in such a frame of reference so that we can still have a more normal, more patient conversation today. This plural monolith, as Slovenia might say, is basically plural. And here we are different people. When I was talking about stigma, as a bad sign, of course, I didn't mean to, and at least I didn't mean to mark anyone by not wanting to be alone. But the thing is, all these things that cause people to filter can lead to that. I have pointed to this, Mr Kokalj, without thinking about something that already exists today or that seems to exist. I am concerned by the fact that studying Slovenian history, as well as European history, has led me to believe that any ratings will eventually lead to one in a very subordinate, deprived position and ultimately stigmatised. If this has ever been the case with believers, then let it never be again. And if it's ever been like this with the unbelievers, never again - that's why we're here. My job as a member of the National Assembly is not only to "screw the nerve" but also to try to get the matter into some normal way of talking and even talking. However, such a provision in the law as the government envisages, it already introduces a new filter. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u253	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr. Kokalj, did you report to the replica? Here you go. [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u254	I didn't mention Mr. Gulic before. He didn't replicate to me. He was just discussing it. I'm so sorry. I'm not gonna say anything bad. Thank you for the constructiveness of Mr Gulic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u255	Mr Kokalj, we consider this to be a debate for which you still have six minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u256	I'm replicating because I was mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u257	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u258	I'll be brief. It is only that, obviously, Mr Gulic and I have a well-meaning understanding of the same content. I don't understand it as a filter, really not, but just as a difference that occurs naturally. It's just as you would say that some of us are white, others are black--and that it's now some kind of filter. If it's written somewhere that some people are white, others are black, that's just natural. Some do not have the need or do not believe, but others do, and only the right to do so is guaranteed. I mean, I understand the matter that way, and I don't understand it that way, as Mr Gulic understands. I think we're both well-intentioned here, but obviously, we're looking at the same thing differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u260	Thank you very much. From this debate today I felt that the branches of considerable intolerance to one of the religious communities that exist in Slovenia. And I think that this is contrary to what has been said a little while ago, that if faith has in the past been given such and different procedures, this should never happen again. But this continues to take place, not in the same form as before, but also insatiable speech means impatient behavior or inappropriate labelling of other thoughters or otherwise ideologically defined ones. As far as equality is concerned, I think that the Constitution says very clearly that all people are equal, the Constitution also guarantees freedom of religion, both in public and in private life, and the law we are talking about also speaks very clearly about the right to religious care not only one religion, but any one. And of course, in this way all religions are equal and whoever wants them has the right to adequate religious care. Now, of course, the argument of those who say that this article must be deleted with this right is that, of course, all religious communities, because of organisational and other problems, because they are smaller, cannot provide this religious care, so, of course, this religious supply or right should not be guaranteed to those who can, because they are larger, better organised and so on. But is that equality? So, if everyone is not able to guarantee these rights, then let's give it to those who can guarantee this right?Oh, my God! Is that equality, please? It's not, is it? Then let's get the rest of us to stop it. So that I think there is quite one misdirection here, and above all intolerance to those who are believers, and I think it is mainly one of the existing religious communities, which is simply to be stigmatised in a certain way. Thus, the amendments relating to the abolition of this right are absolutely unacceptable, the amendment of the United Kingdom could be, to some extent, acceptable, but I think that the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and the People's Party is more appropriate, so I think it is necessary to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u261	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Mr. Gulic called. Did you get that? Then it's Mrs. Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u262	Thank you very much. The amendment tabled by the three parliamentary groups is the most enigmatic amendment I have ever held. Because there are so many interpretations from it that that rule, which he will be able to lay down in more detail, will be able to afford not only artistic freedom but also other freedoms. For, I ask you what it means to "those who want it," this means quite a lot to you, "it has the right to religious, spiritual care adapted to its profession or professional requirements, in particular in circumstances where the exercise of this right is hampered". Who's making that right difficult for him? Why? After 8 hours of working time, he can at any time, whenever he wants, have religious care, as is the case with all citizens and citizens - if they want it and if they want it - outside the working time. This is the only logical one, this is the enigmaticity of this amendment, which allows in a slightly softer way than in the marriage proposal, a very vehement entry of the Church into the police, in short, into the repressive body of this country. Today, we have allowed the Church to enter the Public Prosecutor’s Office in an indirect way or to take over the city of the State’s Attorney’s Office when it was given to it or when you vote in the evening to give it the opportunity to take over in criminal proceedings for those who do not have relatives or priests who do not have their descendants and will now be their descendant. In short, even with this proposal, enigmatic or not, which by the way, has been repeatedly quoted as having the spiritual supply of the army. Of course, but the military received this spiritual care at a time when we met with the army, it is said, with that corps of people who were in special situations because they were in a day-to-day relationship, during a full-day period, they were in some particular military barracks, like, for example, they could say that students and students on campus could also benefit from it - I immediately gave you an idea where the Church could enter. In short, what do I mean? These measures, which we face daily, leave the new authority of civil society, the Church to state authorities, legitimately allows it, supports, finances and thus changes constitutional and other categories. It changes the division of the Church with power and at the same time I can only confirm that it changes and introduces a completely new cultural struggle in this country. This, I admit, is what I fear, because it also introduces the ideology of injustice and distinction between people. Some have this option and the selection of who they are, you do, and others don't have this option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u263	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. I don't have an open list of discussers anymore. They're all unlocked. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u264	There was a lot of interesting talk today. Of course, I must say that the amendment we have proposed follows both from the Constitution and from the fact that we want to ensure with the amendment that the government you are leading does not, as it began with the expansion of the understanding of religious care in the Slovenian Army, go to the whole country. Of course, I understand a policeman, especially as a "state" - in the phrasing - "officer". And I understand him as someone who will never, as someone said before, be an integral part of the Slovenian armed forces. Never! I hope that's true. That is why, of course, I do not see any need to align the status you are proposing in the law with the amendment of the law on police, with what is enshrined in the law on defence. I think that not only is the opinion of the legislative and legal service, but today's debate has shown that there is a great understanding of what care this police officer is supposed to receive. I hope that, as long as this police officer, as someone said before, will be wounded, he will be provided with medical care first and then all else in connection with it. Equalize the police by what is provided for in Article 52 of the Defence Act, where this right is linked to a military person and to the duration of military service. However, what you have proposed in both the basic solution and the MPs or three parties to the ruling coalition is clearly a change in the understanding of the police in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why, of course, I think it would be right to support the amendment we are proposing and to ensure that, on the basis of this amendment, the Slovenian State and the Slovenian religious communities remain separate. Because otherwise, we don't know where this is going to end. Whether we will propose, I don't know, the spiritual care of Members of the National Assembly, or whether we will propose the spiritual care of accountants at the Ministry of Finance, because, of course, they sometimes have a hard job. Therefore, of course, I would suggest that you accept this amendment and that in this way we fully respect what the Slovenian Constitution says. Everything else is, in my opinion, the opening of an inappropriate practice, which has begun or which is being strengthened in this mandate, because, of course, Article 52 of the Defence Act clearly depends on individual political parties, but we understand differently. And what you have proposed with so-called, as it is called, a minor amendment to the law on police - it is a law which, as is known, we conclude or deal with in short procedure, strongly interferes with the current status of religious communities and, in my opinion, seriously interferes with the basic section established by Article 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u265	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u266	I did not intend to comment on this amendment, which we are now talking about, but the debate that is going on has somehow forced me to do so. I am forced to call as a Member who was raised in the Christian spirit, to come later to a personal faith that means a great deal to me and I am proud of it. From today’s debate, I have often felt impatience, an intolerance to the greatest religious community of which I am a member. I leave freedom to everyone around me, and I do not want to "send" anyone with my conviction, but I do not need to understand that some of you are trying to prevent this voluntary option, which would only be given to members of the police when they are prevented from serving their religious needs normally. In the end, I'd say another thought. We're not in any competition, no conflict, no war. Religious communities can work very well with each other and can also work in one room, in one building three, four, or five, or in as many religious communities as they can find a suitable corner where they can meet their needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u267	Thank you, Mr. Root. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Please. Allow me, this is a second treatment, there is no second treatment, this is only possible in general treatment. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss with the parliamentary group that still has time to discuss? No, no, no. Then, I conclude the debate and hereby terminate this item on the agenda. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in accordance with the timeline. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll continue at 5 p.m., that's 5:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u268	Your Honor! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. On the right hand side of the card lodged, the orange light must be lit, in which case the vote may be carried out. We're moving to the 7th item of the agenda. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly shall vote on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods on Friday, 28 October 2005, following the conclusion of the last item of the agenda of the meeting. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on criminal procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendments to Article 20 of the Act, first of all on the first amendment tabled by the LDS Group to Article 20. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 35. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the LDS Group to Article 20. Mrs Shirca, please explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u269	Thank you very much. This amendment is a very important message. Today, it has been repeatedly said that these solutions bring differences between people. One will get greater rights than the other, no doubt. Because there are more people who have no offspring. There are infertile, there are people who have decided not to have a child, and there are people who can lose offspring. But now, as the government has suggested, only one will receive legal heirs who can have the right to claim the protection of the rule of law - and this will be the Church. She'll take over the church. She'll have a role as a relative. However, all others will be able to make available the State Prosecutor's Office, as is the case with the State Prosecutor's Office, to those who may demand the protection of legality for any violation of the law. And the State's Attorney's Office can do that in the case of priests and monks who have no offspring. Now priests and monks who do not have offspring are exempt from this position and their offspring, as has already been said, have taken over the Church. This is about inequality before the law, and we can ask ourselves why it does not get such rights and opportunities, including some other society, civil or other. In this respect, we believe that this is a serious violation of the constitutional principle of equality before the law, so I ask you once again to reconsider these solutions offered by your government and to correct at least this point if you were unable to listen to the first attempt of Article 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 41. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Friday, 28 October 2005, after the last item of the agenda for this meeting. This concludes this agenda item. And I am moving on to the continuation of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on notariat, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present. 69 votes against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 1. Mr. Weber, please explain your vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u271	Thank you on behalf of the delegation. The amendment, which I have been trying to explain in the debate, is solving, I think, which is very unfortunate, because the procedure introduced in the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, which refers to dwellings or things owned by municipalities and public authorities, does not have the proper procedures specified in this law, so that they are comparable, for example, with the property of private law persons. For these there are very precise rules, articles and regulations. And because, in this area of public law, if I so designate the property of municipalities and state authorities, we expect that the same rules should apply, we propose that this amendment should allow the preparation of a regulation that would accurately define the procedure for which the municipality can acquire how much money and what it must meet before that. This is a special procedure defined in this law and this particular procedure also needs its regulation. We are simply supplementing and facilitating, we can say, the case to the Minister, so that he will have easier and more transparent steps when deciding how much resources a municipality can get and how much resources a certain state authority can get, for example, has not had this opportunity in law so far. If this regulation is not available, the Minister will in fact be able to decide how much resources will belong to any of the municipalities, which I believe is not a suitable form and can cause much discomfort, dissatisfaction, and I think that there are too many complications that are already so and so present in the event of natural disasters. It is so important that the law is as precisely defined as possible. However, since the law is not most appropriate in this case, a regulation is absolutely necessary and this amendment sends the applicant to draw up a regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u272	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the proposed amendment to Article 1. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 3. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u273	Well, regardless of the outcome of this vote - because I think that the solution to the previous amendment was really necessary and appropriate - if this amendment is not adopted, then we can certainly claim that the purpose of the law which speaks of prepayments being made at the time of the accident, under this law, under the content of the amendment, as it will be written, if the amendment is not adopted, we will not be able to achieve this objective. In fact, if we're going to pay the advance, we're going to have to prepare a program before then. When you prepare a programme, of course, this is already a process, because prepayments are not actually necessary or reasonable, but they can already be allocated to beneficiaries on the basis of the programme. My position and the position of the Socialist Group of Members is that advance payments are necessary at the first moment the damage occurs. And this damage, the first damage, should be assessed by the government, in fact, to assess how much funding is needed to remedy this damage, and, of course, in this case it also pays off the advance payment. In so far as this is not the case, Article 37 of the law dealing with this issue makes it very clear to the government to draw up a programme. The amount of funds that may be allocated under the law is 20% of the estimated direct damage, and in any case the content that does not fall within this Article should be in Article 40. And to resolve these inconsistencies in the law, we propose deleting a text that says that the amount of advance payments does not exceed 20% of the estimated direct damage to be deleted. This actually allows the proposer to achieve his primary objective of making advance payments at a time when prepayments make sense. However, if these changes are not made, of course, these advances, if paid, will be paid in breach of the law to remedy the consequences of the damage due to the defects, which I think opens up new dilemmas, new concerns, new problems. I therefore propose that this amendment be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u274	Thank you, Mr. Weber. We're voting. The vote is under way. 71 Members and Members are present. There were 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading of the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. 71 Members and Members are present. There were 63 votes against. (The vote was 63.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on measures to address the consequences of certain terrestrial beaches of a larger scale from the years 2000 and 2001, a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading of amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Ski Safety Act. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 14th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on travel documents of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on police, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We will first vote on the amendments or amendments tabled by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and on the amendment of the same content tabled by the LDS Group on Article 11. If the amendment is adopted, the remaining two amendments to this Article shall become irrelevant. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u275	Here you go. The amendments are the same and, of course, in the LDS group we support the text 73a. Article 4(4) is replaced by the following: With drops, the authorities offer us articles where the influence of the Church in Slovenian civil society is directly influenced by the influence of the Church. With this law, over 8,000 police officers and police officers will be given the opportunity to provide spiritual services. Church [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mr. Jerovšek, I have no fever. I speak, and you cannot disturb me. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u276	Please be quiet, please, Mrs. Shirtz. Just Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u277	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. In short, the church enters the law, paid to the repressive authorities, this time to the police. Why the police, we don't know. Why cops aren't as good religious centers as any - we don't know. But I know it's up to the Church to enter another sphere of our society tomorrow. The door opened again today, for every law we meet in the last days is also faced with a spirit that promises us unconstitutional solutions. Of course, I will support one or the other proposal of Article 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u278	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 69 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 41. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 11. If the amendment is adopted, the next amendment becomes irrelevant. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u279	Thank you very much. I have already said in the debate on these amendments that, unfortunately, my expectation was that the coalition would not be willing to accept the amendment to Article 73a, so, in the promise of coalition parties as well as the government, that it would seek a solution that would be restrictive and would only apply to cases where spiritual care for the work and obligations of those who wanted to do so was disabled. This amendment has such content. I expect that within 14 days neither the government nor the coalition has forgotten what has been agreed. If there's any honesty, you'll support the amendment, or I'll know it's a shame to try for acceptable solutions, because you don't know anything else except valor and your principles, which are unprincipled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u280	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u281	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment, and I will say what comes into my mind when I observe and monitor this vote, not just today, but months and months ago. I am convinced that if the Social Democrats' parliamentary group tabled an amendment in which they would write that coalition parties are always right, that all men in this coalition are the smartest and most powerful and all women would be the most beautiful - 100% would reject it; so I have no hope of winning: But I tell you that this amendment makes sense, that at least as much as it is adapted to what the constitution says, and that I will vote for it. But whatever you want, I don't expect anything but what you always do. If the opposition proposes anything, you're always against it, regardless of how the best men are amendments, the best possible laws; that's what you are, you tell the public your true face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u282	Mrs. Pečanova, because we are just about to explain and how will you vote? Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u283	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Of course, I will support this amendment, and I do not take the floor to say the same vote as the leader of the parliamentary group has announced, but I am taking this opportunity to give you an initiative, Mr President of the National Assembly. In this National Assembly of recent times [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u284	Ma'am, even for you, we are here to explain our vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u285	We hear the word many times Let me say it, you'll see it's connected to the amendment. [[...]] [[...]] Many times we hear reports of impatience. The evidence suggests that those who often make this statement have difficulty understanding the term "insatiability", so I suggest you, Mr President of the National Assembly, to choose a way to bring this word closer to the Members and Members of Parliament in terms that the profession understands. This amendment, which we are now talking about, just points to the fact that the Social Democrats' parliamentary group is the one who understands tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u286	Thank you for the lesson you have given to the President of the National Assembly, but Mrs Potrata, it was an abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's stick to the agenda. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 44. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SLS and NSI to Article 11. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 23. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill's proposal, i.e. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 11 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? No, no, no. I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendment adopted would not be harmonised. We're moving on to a decision on the law. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u287	Thank you for your word. I'd like to request a 10-minute recess for consultation in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u288	I'll call off the session in 10 minutes, but after the vote is over. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u289	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So on behalf of the LDS Club, I'm going to say very briefly. The LDS Club won't support this marriage because they can't support it and they won't support it. And all of this will not be done for the sake of principle, because we are advocating that the National Assembly, as the legislator of which we are part, adopt laws that respect the Constitution and the rule of law of this country. With such proposals, as the government has recently brought them to the National Assembly, where, directly with individual provisions, it goes against our constitutional arrangements, of course, we will not do so and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u290	Thank you, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler. Mr. Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I could, on a procedural basis, know that there was a practice, as you have just done, that if one of the members of the group asks for an interruption before deciding to make explanations of votes first, but I think that there was something illogical in this practice, I will therefore give my opinion. In fact, when this Group of Members returns, it usually gives its reasons for what it has decided at that time, and these reasons may once again affect other Members and Members to further explain their votes. So I would appeal to all of us to change this practice and, in fact, as soon as one of the parliamentary groups proposes such a measure, let us stop the meeting, let us consult and then continue to explain our votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u292	Mr. Pavliha, there is no dispute now about the rules of procedure. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u293	So, Mr President, I am procedurally proposing that you give us 15 minutes' rest to decide whether to tell Members of the position in which we are going to fall or not, and not to abuse your functions as President of the National Assembly, to force us into actually changing the rules from moment to moment, so that we cannot rely on what is firmly stated in the Rules of Procedure, so that we can ask for a recess before making a decision. My colleague Paulus spoke about this in a kind way, and I call on you to allow a break at this time to decide whether the ten LDS Members will tell each other their reasons for going against this solution. These reasons are also relevant because of potential disputes in front of other instances. From this point of view, the National Assembly, if any dispute arises, will have to provide a clear report on how this decision took place and, of course, procedural matters and the said things are important in this report. That's why I think we deserve this 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u294	I will not put this proposal to the vote. Let me explain. You had the opportunity to adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly before we moved on to this point. We are in the middle of a point called the vote on the law, gentlemen, and I cannot stop except on a request that any parliamentary group has expressed for suspension, just before the vote, just before the vote. And never before, except when there was a mistake or a lack of caution, the chairman has not been careful, nor has it happened to break the stage of explanation of vote. Never before. And I will not change this practice because I have no basis for changing it. Once again, once the stage of explanation of vote has been completed, we will order a 10-minute recess requested by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, even more so if one also requires a longer break. Mr. Skolcz, if you'd like to explain your voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u295	Mr. President, look, I listened to you very carefully. I see things are getting out of hand. We would not have done the wrong thing if, when a fellow Zagorac asked for 10 minutes, those 10 minutes had not yet begun to explain his voice. You've rejected it and, I'll say, now in this final explanation you've also eaten your word. So I think it makes sense for you to go back to where you made a mistake and give those 10 minutes to people. Otherwise, we are, I'll say, prisoners of your stubbornness and decisions of the majority, and we'll take it, too, don't worry. We are accustomed to this will, but we are obliged to warn her.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u296	Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. We'll continue at 5:45.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u297	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats and let's get back to work. I ask the Slovenian National Party Group whether you want to explain your views that you have adopted at this time? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u298	Thank you for your word. Since the amendments of the Slovenian National Party have not been adopted and the law has thus remained unchanged, it must be said that the law that we will vote on later is a good law in some parts. However, it is true that, in our opinion, according to the Slovenian National Party, Article 11 of the Act is unconstitutional, contrary to Article 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the fact that the State and the religious communities are separate. According to our belief, religious care or spiritual care in the police force involves interfering with the Church and faith in a repressive state body. That's why we announce obstruction at this point. We cannot participate in the adoption of non-constitutional laws in the Slovenian National Party for the sake of respect for the rule of law of this country. We also urge those who intend to stay in the Chamber and vote against this law to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u299	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mr. Squeakle, do you have a procedural proposal? There's no more explanation for the voice. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u300	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. In accordance with the terms of the Rules of Procedure, please order a five-minute recess for consultation within the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group to decide how we will act in the work of the National Assembly, because it is on your part that the right of a Member has been violated to explain his vote before explaining the vote. Please, if you order this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to decide how the Club of Members will operate in such part of the National Assembly, which you are leading as President. I think that my fellow Member and the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Marko Pavliha, spoke well of the content of our proposal. The content of our proposal was that the information we receive from Members and Members is until the moment we press the key or when you trigger the vote, the one that is the basis for our decision. Since, of course, an additional information has just been provided, on the basis of the consultation of one of the parliamentary groups, we have the right of Members and Members to explain our vote on the decision to take. Of course, you do not allow us to make these decisions, so please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, order a five-minute recess for consultation at the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club to decide on the continuation of work on this item of the agenda and the work of the National Assembly, as led by you, Mr President of the National Assembly. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly has, of course, examined the Rules of Procedure in detail and I think it is good that you should also examine it in detail and find that these two procedures are not interlinked and that Members have the right to explain their vote until the vote. Please order a recess to decide how to proceed in such a manner at a meeting conducted by you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u301	Mr Squeakl, this was an abuse of the rules of procedure, once again, let me say that I am merely continuing with the practice that has always been in force. In the previous mandate, under the leadership of the second team, including the vice-presidents, including those who have proposed a different procedure today, they have already done so in this mandate. If we want to change the procedure or practice, of course there is an opportunity on the business committee, but there is also an opportunity in agreement with the vice-presidents or heads of the parliamentary groups. In the middle of the point, we're not going to change practice. You requested five minutes of rest. Usually this requirement has been exhausted by the fact that another parliamentary group has also requested, but this time I will allow you; you have 5 minutes available. We will continue at 5:57 p.m. and then no more explanations of vote and no more procedural proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. We continue to vote on the law as a whole. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Would you like to explain the conclusions of your meeting? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u303	Mr President, although it was usually up to you to ask the Member Group itself, the Club of Members that took a break, to do so. Today you decided not to do so, so we procedurally requested that you suspend the vote to allow us to explain the outcome of our consultation. Mr President, we asked for the consultation in particular to consult whether we are participating in the work of the National Assembly in the way you are leading it. We note that you have gravely violated the second paragraph of Article 72 because you have not allowed the Member, in accordance with the second paragraph, to quote: "The Member has the right before the final vote on the motion for a decision to explain his vote. His address may take up to two minutes." Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure are the conditions for a Member to have the right to do so only "before the final vote". Therefore, I think it was incorrect that you have started to introduce some practice that is incomprehensible to us and Members after we have received additional information do not allow them to explain their voice. That is why we have consulted in the House of Members, we find that you treat us as subordinates, at least unevenly, and that you are introducing some new rules here. I think that Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Comrade Pavlich, has kindly warned you before the very procedure when voting on this law, what exactly, what kind of trap you will fall into; and obviously we have fallen into this trap with you all. You did not allow the Members to explain your vote before the final vote. We regret that you're not allowing us to do this. However, because of the substance of the law, we believe that the law amending and supplementing the law on police in the provisions which you have rejected today, unconstitutional, inadequate, left to vote, voted against the law in full and used all the legal means that we have Members and which exist in the Republic of Slovenia in order to ensure what Article 7 of the Constitution says. Mr President, in particular, we would like you to allow Members of the ruling coalition and members of the opposition, as presidents of the entire national assembly, to establish and explain their vote. You did not do this today, so we are strongly protesting and our decision will be as I said - we will stay and vote against the law because it is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u304	Although, Mr. Squeakl, I do not expect you to apologize for these lies, but I must say that everyone has received the word they wanted to explain their vote. Three times I asked if anyone else wanted to explain their voice, but three times no hand, not the hand of Mr. Squeak. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 20. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
