ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Ljubo Germič, Drago Koren, Mag. Janez Kramberger, mag. Majda Potrata, Maria Pozsonec, Jakob Presečnik, Jožef Školč, Flower of Zalokar Orazem and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving to 21. POINT OF THE DAY - THIS IS ON THE DEFINITIVE ACT OF DETERMINATION OF A PARAMENTAL INVESTIGATION FOR THE CURRENCE OF THE POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE PURPOSERS OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONS, D. D. AND SLOVENISH INJURY SOCIETY, D. D. IN ECONOMIC SOCIETY, AND EVER SO EXAMPLES ALL SALES CONCERNED BY LEGISLATION AND OTHER PRESCRIPTIONS AND BY REVIEW AND ECONOMICITY. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 39 Members and Members, with the first signed Jozet Tank, submitted a request for the introduction of parliamentary investigations to the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representatives of the applicants for further explanation. Procedurally, Mr. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u2	Dear Members, Members, Mr President. In accordance with Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the debate be postponed to one of the following meetings. This is justified by the following: for the first time, the National Assembly must, at one of the meetings, not necessarily at this meeting, decide on an act setting up a parliamentary inquiry, as provided for in Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry. The second reason for the postponement is, Mr President, an action brought against you yesterday in order to prevent the establishment of an investigative commission regarding the investigation of the political responsibility of the current authorities. So, the authorities that took office on 3 December 2004. You made a statement yesterday, and we agree that you are looking forward to a verdict. Therefore, we propose, Mr President, that this be postponed to one of the next meetings, that, in view of the priority of this ruling, we also wait for the administrative court's response to your behaviour in not including our parliamentary inquiry at the meeting of the National Assembly. In doing so, we want to say that it is true that the same matter should not be judged twice by the same institutions, but that is not the case. This is about two groups of political authorities being tried by the two investigative commissions, and Mr Tank and 39 Members who want to investigate the functioning of the previous political authority do not want to abolish this constitutional right. However, as the first-signed and 31-member members, we want to investigate the current current political authority that has done up to 29 billion damage to Mercator's work. Of course, you can't stop us, just as we don't want to stop you. Thirdly, we believe that a postponement is necessary not only to come up with an action to grant us a constitutional right, but also to find an appropriate political agreement. This has only two options: whether we will be allowed to set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry, or whether the National Assembly will order one parliamentary inquiry, in which the sale of KAD and SOD shares to Mercator is being investigated as a matter of priority, and until it is concluded, this part of the investigation should, of course, be led by one of the signatories to the 31 Members' request. We believe that, to the extent that there is a willingness of the ruling coalition to adopt an appropriate solution, we propose to postpone these points and to approach the search for appropriate solutions. We propose that we vote to postpone this point to one of the next meetings of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr Cvikl, I must remind you that, in accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, we are obliged to inform you at this meeting that the parliamentary commission has been set up or that the decision-making act is legally binding. By law, this matter needs to be resolved at the first session of the next session, and this is the meeting. Therefore, unfortunately, we cannot move to one of the following meetings. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Mr Tank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u5	Only Mr. Tanko has the word. Mr. Squeakl, if you want a procedural proposal later, you will have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u6	In recent months, the national assembly, the government, political parties and the public have been burdened by the debate on the sale of KAD and SOD shares in Mercator, as well as by the debate on the establishment of an investigative commission to investigate these and similar cases. These days there was also a debate on the incomprehensible and incredible event, the decision of Mercator owners to resolve the irreplaceable director Jankovic. This was celebrated by many as a cult of the Slovenian business space and in a cult way they also said good-bye to him publicly. All previous changes by directors of companies serve only for statistics, although other directors in their time represented the economic backbone of the country. In fact, each of these actions has been misused by the commitment of the Liberal Democracy and Social Democracy to draw attention to its presence, to its zeal for maintaining a high ethical stance and to prove to be the guardian of national values. To prove to be masters of maximising the budgetary or capital revenues from the sale of state property and to make the Slovenian public aware that the directors you have set up in recent years are irreplaceable and without competition. To prove that Slovenia has no political and professional staff other than those you have promoted for decades and more in the local public. However, Slovenia is slowly aware that this country has much greater potential than you were formerly ruling, gathered together in Liberal and Social Democracy, even willing to recognise. There are many people who are able to work with quality and success and to contribute much more to the welfare of the country than they have been able to. We have found ourselves in a situation where those who have broken public property for more than a decade teach us about rationality, regularity, transparency, legality, social state and so on. This reminds us of only stickers or high notary tariffs. These things are now much cheaper, and in many cases costs will be reduced without harm than, say, personal documents, traffic plates and other things. When you had the opportunity to act rationally and thoughtfully, you acted quite differently. You taught citizens to look to the future, not to look back and not to raise the dust. Makes sense. The present was yours, and the justice system was cool enough that nothing happened. It was extremely vague to withdraw the country from the economy, either directly or through the two capital companies KAD and SOD, which had acquired shares in companies, so to speak, after service obligations. It is no secret that their ownership of companies is too high and that both companies still have a decisive influence today on the composition of company bodies and consequently also on business policy. There is also no secret that the business of both companies in the past has been very hidden from the eyes of the public and the opposition and that many deals have been concluded that have shaken Slovenian public and business life. Many things have been sold after an extremely large discount to various selected groups and individuals. In the meantime, a meticulous, planned and professional spill of only a tremendous amount of money. Not by chance, but in a pre-arranged scenario. In many cases, our media has been called upon, various networks of related companies and personalities have been drawn up, which have controlled and managed the entire clusters and built events on the Slovenian business and financial market. Consider some examples. In Banka Koper, the State assumed obligations under law and relieved it of its poor claims to the General Navigation. The value of such a cleared bank has suddenly increased dramatically and its owners sold it to its neighbours at the time of the greatest emphasis on national interest. Of course, with an extremely large profit, the state and citizens remain only a public debt, which we are now covering. Let us ask ourselves whether this could have been done without the knowledge of the State, without its silent consent or even cooperation. Who were the politicians who were then "defying the laws" through the National Assembly. Also interesting is the story that took place in the course of the sale of the Brewery Union, where there was a strategic battle about who would be the buyer: or foreigners, the Belgian Interbrew, for which the government worked hard, or the domestic Pivovarna Laško. The latter, inter alia, supported a large part of the then opposition and part of the then coalition. However, a key part of the then Slovenian policy was identified as a foreigner and the share of Kad was also sold to the foreigner. Only the then Director of Soda Končnik identified himself as a local brewery and sold 12.2% of the Union's share. Remember, heads were falling and the victim was branded as a traitor. At that time, the withdrawal from Union sales was good only because of the Court's opposition to the government decision, since only the game of both interested parties had triggered the prices of shares, probably also of the true value. The dual policy of Liberal Democracy and Social Democracy, on the one hand, was touring the public with national interest and, on the other hand, showed a great deal of servility to foreigners and a lack of confidence in the ability of domestic business potential. The question is, what would happen to Union and Laska brewery if a government script were to be implemented. Would Laško brewery be as important, recognized and great a player in the Slovenian economic sky as it is today, would it not? Would you still be able to direct your thoughts to conquering other markets or perhaps fight European giants for bare survival even in the domestic market? The answer is important if they also want to judge the future moves of the former governments. If a government scenario had been implemented, the profits of one brewery would have been collected by foreigners, the fate of the other would have been uncertain. Perhaps Union would no longer be and would have experienced the fate of a successful sale of the Tobacco Factory, which was for "small money", as our former fellow citizens say, sold to a strategic foreigner. He shut it down and will earn several times more by selling it than he paid for the entire factory with a successful and recognizable program and a quality workforce. Perhaps it would be good if we turned over some historical TV contribution in which government politicians of the time commented on this "happy" business. Very opaque and not in very clear circumstances was the sale of the share of Kad in the newspaper company Job to Gorenje, Emona Maximarket and "Kolbitobis BH". The sale took place at a time when Bajuk's team took over the government for a short time and only a few days before the replacement of then Prime Minister Kada Jožet Lenič, former Member of the Liberal Democracy. Many experts have pointed out that it was a completely non-transparent sale and that the price of shares was also inadequately determined. There was neither a public bidding nor a package offered on the stock exchange for sale. It was a direct sale, a quick agreement between the seller and the buyers; the rest will be determined by the Commission. Also interesting is the sale process of Kad and Soda shares in Gorenje, one of the largest and most recognizable Slovenian companies. When 17.55% and 15.28% of shares were held, the total was 32.83%, which is significantly higher than the share. However, the parastatal funds did not come together. The withdrawal procedure was halted by the fact that the control share of the parastatal KAD and the SOD would fall into an undecided proportion, with which the administration of the KAD and the SOD probably, with the quiet consent of the then-Rop government, deliberately waived the implementation of the take-off margin. After completing the withdrawal, the SOD will no longer be owned by Gorenje and KAD's final share will not exceed 23.99%, only a hundred less than the takeover share - interesting. The sale of the SOD share in Gorenje took place only a little later than the sale of Lek and under the same authority. All the key players in the Lek case were still in their seats in KAD, SOD and the government, so the realization of at least 70% of the takeover premium would have been reasonably expected, but this did not happen, it was all very different, very agreed, and therefore a large inflow of resources into the SOD fell. When the withdrawal takes place, it will fall to around 7 to 8 billion, at least so much less the inflow after the sale of KAD's share, totalling around 15 billion without revalorisation and without winding up the prices of shares. I wonder where you were last year, Prime Minister Rop, ministers of Cvikl, Lahovnik, Digač, Gantar, probably in the clouds. The sale of Lek may also reflect the inability to assess the economic situation. We had two successful pharmaceutical companies, and in both of them, the para-state funds had an important controlling share. Of course, there were two successful directors at the head of both companies at the time. It was not possible to harmonise and create a solid European pharmaceutical society because politicians and roosters were politically influential, prestige was too great and power was very indecisive or cagava. What happened, we know. The drug was bought by foreigners, domestic synergy collapsed, one director retired, and the other the new owners sent to work in Russia. Interesting. No one protested when Novartis, the owner of Lek, replaced Director Dragoń and sent him to work abroad. Nobody! No banners, no assemblies, no candles, no Trenje, almost no echoes, actually a successful director left, even your economic minister. He really wasn't a "favorable star" of the Slovenian media and business scene. Why is that? Why such a different approach to foreign and domestic owners and directors? Just because of the politics of the irreplaceable and eternal elections that have taken place? It is true that Novartis raised 81% of the takeover premium at the time of purchase, but the whole purchase is likely to cover with profit over the next few years. Was the country in Lek a bad owner just because it did not get involved in business and received a good dividend at the end of the business year? So what is the criterion for a good owner and a good sale? The opinion of the Squeaks, the Robbers, the Lahars? Can there be any other view of the country's withdrawal from the economy? Did anyone wonder what or how much it would be possible to realize the takeover margins if KAD and SOD were to sell twice the larger company, Lek and Krka? There's probably no such analysis. Let's move on to the list. Auto-commercial. In him is the deciding husband, Mr Rigelnik, former President of the National Assembly. Here, too, the withdrawal took place in a very special way. When 16% had shares, SOD 9 and a half, together they also had more than a takeover stake, which is 25% under the law. Nor has there been any synergies between the KAD and the SOD and the principle of maximising revenue from the sale of the para-national share and therefore no acquisition premiums have been realised. The key move took place in February last year when the SOD sold its 9 and a half percent separately to Luka Koper. No one intervened, the political authorities fell asleep or perhaps even quietly cheered for such a realization of the withdrawal of a couple of countries from the economy. It was a direct sale to a well-known buyer, without pushing the price for the stock package, there was no margin on the total share of SOD and KAD, and there is a reasonable suspicion that the realisation of the sales from the point of view of the State and its institutions was not maximised. That wasn't even tried. I'm sure it's a big break. The amount is about the same as the budget of the municipality with 10,000 inhabitants. Thus, the former government and former managers of KAD and SOD did not pursue the goals with which they now bomb the public so vehemently. The implementation of this and similar cases involving the highest representatives and custodians of the state assets of the past period shows the full duality of the LDS and SD and reveals a scenario whereby huge amounts of State shares in important companies are to be transferred to the electorate of the transitions belonging to their option. This means only the continuation of the story of the "red barons" and the "chains of transition". Apparently, the new presidents of the administrations in KAD and SOD have gone awry at the intentions of the old guard, who has decided to wage a total war without a choice of means. This includes media pursuits and union pressures. The real storm resulted in the sale of 16.33% of KAD's share and 13.75% of SOD's share in Mercator on 30 August this year, although sales were only one in the KAD and SOD sales. In the LDS, the largest opposition party, it was not until one week that they realized that the country had begun to withdraw more strongly from the economy. Not from the most successful, but from the largest companies. Only then did they realize that this sale no longer took place as in the golden times of the LDS-SD when companies sold their or your political protectors at a real price. A few years later, the former LDS ministerial team announced to the public its calculation of alleged injury, which had a very large range of 13 to 29 billion. Of course, a little later, you made a comparison with the apartments, how many apartments do you think the alleged damage is. Of course, the comparison was not for the lower number, for 13 billion, but only for the upper, for the highest. According to the LDS, 29 billion amounts to at least 2,904 dwellings. We don't know whether these are wardrobes, single rooms, double rooms, non-profits, or the measure of Kopačeva's or Dove's apartments. We could probably say that and, of course, the location to check it out. For 10 million, nothing is gained in Ljubljana. Otherwise, we have become acquainted with, for the last few days, media releases about major past irregularities in the housing fund, so the comparison with the apartment is just right and very topical. In the event of a purchase of several thousand square metres of lawns for the construction of apartments in Vižmarje, the housing fund overpaid the land to Ethalina for about cca. 500 million or only 50 flats have disappeared in this transaction, under the LDS tariff. In any event, this overpayment of land in Vižmarje automatically increases the price of a square meter of non-profit housing by around EUR 100. Now somebody tell me how carefully you've been building apartments for the endangered or for young families. You were right there, apparently, the biggest leeches and you used them the most. In this case, it is certainly a very strange implementation of the housing policy, for which the former Director of the Owen Housing Fund and his first supervisor, former Minister Kopač, are most responsible. Nevertheless, the President of the Commission on Budgetary Control, Mr Cvikl, his brilliant party colleagues, former ministers and current Members, and your political companions from Social Democracy have not yet written a word about this. There has been no press conference yet, you have not condemned the actions, you have not yet requested any investigations or at least any meetings of any of the Committees of the National Assembly, and you have not yet requested any responsibility. This type of land business was probably something else. But no one hopes to even think about what happened only in construction. They paid for the poor, which you occasionally cheered up with the solemn drawing of apartments. Yeah. The acquisition of the apartment despite all the care of the LDS and SD lottery was in the right words. Let's go back to Mercator. In the case of Lek's sale, the magistrates and doctors of Liberal Democracy calculated the alleged compensation for Mercator's sale. In doing so, they accidentally forgot that the situation on the Slovenian market has changed significantly since Lek’s sale. The stock index has increased by 100% and the take-over margin has, according to Dr. Bogomir Kovac, decreased to about 30% to 40%. The takeover margin has also fallen by more than 100%, so perhaps such a range in your initial quotations. However, Mercator has an important prehistoric history, which has also been created by politicians who are sitting between us today and defending the interests of replaced Jankovic. Some, at least by attaching TV recordings, cannot deny a direct role in the appointment of Jankovic as director. Therefore, we cannot attach to the thesis that the decision on appointments at the time was purely professional. On the contrary, they were exclusively political and were already precluding human resources competition. The political leadership of Mercator tried to gain a decisive stake in Mercator. All the plans, all the decisions, all the actions point to that. Instead of owners, the management ran games on strategic links. Although some names of potential partners appeared, there was some business flirting, but nothing serious. The real objective of the administration was to recapitalise to start after the formula 4 times 25, by which the management would ensure full control over the entire society. This is supported by hidden Mercator shares in the Triglav Insurance Company and perhaps elsewhere that would be used at the right time and with which to substantially change the ownership relationship in society. Now the price of shares resulting from the Triglav contract with Mercator depositors is around 18 000 SITs per share or about 20,000 tolars lower than the current market price. What's the difference, the insurance company Triglav? What kind of management did this insurance company have if she was so kind to Mercator's managers? Are they going to answer and pay for the damage or are the insurance company going to raise the premiums and cover the unscheduled default by transferring liabilities to its insurers? Why don't any of the LDS and SD singers touch it? Are you in solidarity with the Mercator and Triglav administrations just because it's in context? Also silently, last year a contract was drawn up to purchase a stock package of 36 SIT shares for the stock or at least 20% lower than the stock price. It is likely that only last year's elections prevented the realization of this excellent sale. Of course, given the apparent suspicion of injury to the sale of KAD and SOD shares in Mercator, it cannot be avoided that the selling price of shares is the same as the price of recapitalisation or market price. KAD and SOD were invited to recapitalise, and the management said 50% of the recapitalisation. In this way, the Mercator administration would decide everything, and the owners would still be able to monitor developments in Slovenia's largest company, and the value of their shares and shares would be very low, the impact of owners, other than those from the administration, would be very close to zero. Therefore, the actions of the administrations of KAD and SOD are logical, as are the moves of customers who wanted to remain active owners in the same way as Novartis. All the owners' moves in the Mercator case are perfectly logical. In the case of Mercator, KAD and SOD acted responsibly and protected state assets by selling their shares. The value and size of this share would fall strongly after the recapitalisation and after the activation of the parked shares and would therefore not provide the owner with anything. They are also aware of this in the LDS and SD, as they were probably planning to realise the withdrawal of the State from Mercator. That's why such a reaction, both accusations and pogroms. Prior to the appointment of the Janša government and the establishment of new administrations in KAD and SOD, the interest of individuals or oligarchs was always above the interests of the State and public interest. And Janša's government turned the compass, and it just put things a little bit differently. That is why it is so important to remove the curtain over some of the most successful cases due to the electorate, and for many citizens in particular the sad privatisation stories of the past decade, in which many have lost their salaries, no paid contributions to the pension and social register, no certificates filed, no hundreds of thousands, and no work. From this story, the most recent name of the operator of the transition process mags. A robbery that carried out a number of convenient and responsible tasks during this period and carried out many "miraculous" projects in favour of political continuity. First, he was Secretary of State for Privatisation. During this time, stories began about a successful transition period in which some were inadvertently enriched. They were generously overlooked by the authorities because they did not sanction the various "bypasses" and the depletion of businesses. Later, when the question of the miraculous enrichment of individuals began to be raised, he became president of the Commission to determine the origin of the property. She found almost nothing. By the way, he helped to reshape the former SDK at the helm with Director Romano Logar, which completely obliterated traces of illegal transactions, injuries and planned business weakening. In 1997 he was Director of Kad, and during that time he sold shares of Slovenian companies, most probably directly, as agreed. The negative effects of the transition, particularly the rapid increase in the unemployment rate, later as Minister of Labour tried to remedy the various schemes that did not have major effects, as much more funds have been diverted into the accounts of transition workers than in the pockets of workers. It was similar with the funds for restructuring companies and later, as a finance minister, he completely satisfied the pensioners. Last year, he proved to be the Prime Minister with a tax reform which was mainly the result of a heavy burden on all social structures. Even before the first income calculations, the reform caused a capital flight from the country, and many wonder whether it was a direct scenario and an agreement with the main transit tycoons or whether it was only a very short-sighted move by the former government. There has been an extremely large infringement of labour rights in the transition, but relatively small systemic activity of trade unions has been observed. Even when tax laws deteriorated last year, nothing shocking happened. At the moment, the government has not experienced almost any criticism and no public protest, all the burden of protesting athletes and students has tried to shift to the current government, which has inherited this failed financial reform. Now that tax legislation has significantly improved when the government has adopted a package of reforms aimed at improving taxpayers' tax opportunities and creating conditions for faster economic growth and new jobs, union managers have begun to light candles and invite strikers. Wrong world. Of course, under the cover of cheap populism, LDS and SD set up a whole range of commissions and institutions to watch and detect many frauds in the economic field. This is the case, for example, with the Anti-Corruption Office, which, despite numerous cases of damage, money laundering and other abuses, cannot exactly be commended for their work, let alone with efficiency. Similar background, valuable populism, has also led to the establishment of a anti-corruption commission that has focused more or less on local officials and has completely overlooked large fish. In the event that something had to be discovered by public impressions, it was later, for various reasons, and with different receptions, completely trickled in the mills of justice. If the investigation is to have a logical meaning, it must be put in context, and we have also proposed a review of history and practice so far. We have legislation and very rich practitioners, a rich set of examples of country withdrawals from business life. Quality-based documentation in KAD and SOD will allow for a rapid and quality review of the correctness of decisions. If past administrations in KAD and SOD have worked transparently and qualitatively, the work will be simple, fast and efficient. For the last few days after October 24, we were primarily concerned with how a second-class team, which, on its own fault and because of its own indiscretion, came to the finish with a one-week delay, awarded a gold medal. Despite the panic reactions of the signatories to the second requirement, the coalition has made a tremendous effort, and the assistance of the legal and legislative service has also been invaluable. I must say that at this time, when we were trying to understand correctly, we did a great deal of work to sum up and place the arguments of the former 'dream team', which was so unfortunately broken. There was much to be done and to be pleasing, and yet there remains a bitter taste. There was only one medal available, and this could be awarded to only one team, as usual, to win. The Constitution provides in Article 93 that the National Assembly must order a parliamentary inquiry, if 30 Members so require. However, since the parliamentary investigation is similar to that of the judicial authorities, it is also quite appropriate to apply the provisions of other laws, particularly those governing the field of justice, and it is also necessary to take into account the provision of Article 31 of the Constitution which prohibits the re-trial of the same matter. So, the complaints, the complaints and the objections have not failed, the commission can only be one, and today we will also establish this. Thank you. I'm asking Comrade Sok to proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tank. Mr Aloise Sok continues on behalf of the candidates, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Honourable President of Parliament, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! There is no doubt that today it will be necessary to decide that this debate, which we are having in public with regard to the establishment of commissions, does not lead anywhere, the Commission, as we have proposed, should be set up in Parliament and the Commission should start dealing with a problem that obviously exists both in the view of the position and the opposition. However, when we talk about sales of state property, it is imperative to look at how these sales have gone in the past. I have data here, sales of market investments and sales of non-market investments, from 1.1.2000 to 1.8.2005. At that time, 41 market investments and 360 non-market investments were sold. So most of these sales were at the time of the previous government and the Commission, when faced with this problem, will undoubtedly have to decide which of these sales will be reviewed. If we focus only on market investments, we can find out that out of these 41 sales were 30 direct sales, 8 were through bidding and only 2 were sold on the basis of a public auction. The laws are still the same, but I do not want to say that the new authorities must continue to sell in a manner similar to that of around 1,000 or more operators sold by the previous government. Today to compare Lek with Mercator's sale, we know that Lek was sold in 2002, when the stock market index was significantly lower than today, of course, in some way to be a general after the battle; therefore, these things are incomparable and even in the way that the opposition tries to show in public cannot be shown. In all of this, we must also ask ourselves what the function of KAD and SOD is actually. The capital company was established on the basis of the fact that part of the total assets is located in this capital company and that then by selling this share of the State property the capital company helps recapitalise the pension fund. While the Slovenian compensation company was established in order to provide funds for payment in the denationalisation process. We have also talked a lot about denationalisation at this meeting, and denationalisation would not have been possible if there had been no nationalisation, and this is a debt that this country must settle in accordance with the law adopted. As regards this latest sale of SOD and KAD shares, which have raised so much dust in the public and, above all, in opposition types, the question is always raised whether the maximum price of shares has been reached. We know that these shares were sold at a price of 38 thousand tolars and that, in fact, Mercator's shares never exceeded those prices at that time and even after that sale. The last sales made by the KD Group were also sold at this price and not higher. The opposition extremely, without any arguments, repeats that there has been an injury if we have to sell at a public auction. We wonder what would have happened if Mercator's shares of KAD and SOD had actually been sold in the same way as the opposition demanded. But this does not mean directly to do something which would now be opposed to other arguments, it is said that KAD and SOD would sell Mercator's shares to foreigners and thus open the door wide to foreign traders to enter Slovenian territory. Or that the same scenario may have occurred as in the case of the sale of the Bank of Koper when the assets of the Bank of Koper were sold to the Slovenians, these Slovenians then sold them to foreigners considerably higher. With all these dilemmas emerging and the opposition talking about the billions of damages to our common property, of course, we have no choice but to collect 39 signatures in the ruling coalition and demand that a commission be set up to review both Mercator's sales and, of course, some other sales that have occurred in the past. Almost the same or in a slightly milder form, only by reviewing Mercator's sales, the opposition demanded the same. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which states that, if two proposals have been tabled in a matter of law, the President of Parliament has also decided on the law or has decided to discuss the law first, and so has the President of Parliament, and so has proposed to the College, and the College has accepted the establishment of a commission on the proposal of those who have requested it first, the actual committee requested by 39 Members. Because of this fact, as we have been informed yesterday, an appeal has also been lodged in the administrative and supreme courts against the President of Parliament, who acted in a manner other than in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in force, and the Rules of Procedure adopted by the previous government coalition with a two-thirds majority in this National Assembly. This rules of procedure shall specify the manner and procedure to be followed in the case of two requests with the same content. Such an opinion was also the legislative and legal service and the President of Parliament took the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service into account in the proposal. The Commission will be set up how the Commission will undertake its work, depending, of course, on the evidentiary decision taken by the Commission itself and, of course, on the fact that Mercator will actually be the first to be taken by this Commission after a small glance, and also on the fact that it was found that Mercator sold shares to Triglav in 2000 at the price of 13 thousand tolars, while at the same time a contract was concluded that those shares of Mercator's administration could be bought back at the same value plus interest, which at this point after the calculation that we could see in the media is about 18,000 Slovenian Tolars. However, during all this time there has been damage to state property and, of course, the Commission will also have to face it. We have been witnesses all this time, of course, to various frauds in the sale of this country's assets, and it would be illogical now that those who have done these and similar sales would now suddenly receive as an instrument of opposition into their hands the fact that they are leading a commission to investigate these and similar cases. I've already repeated that it would be something similar, as if we would actually give the wolf to protect the sheep. For you, today in the opposition, have in the past made it possible to create many financial moguls in this country, while on the other hand more than one million Slovenes and Slovenes have lost the certificates they received as compensation or received in the state property ownership process. In time, too, I will give just a few examples because Mr Tanko described them in broad terms, having affairs, many affairs. We are all aware of how, for example, Mrs Klemenčičeva purchased Triglav shares with a mortgage that she took into account the value of this insurance company. We are all aware of how the SIB bank came into being, because of the funds that Germany has invested in Slovenia for the return of our natives, and we know under what conditions these natives then leased these loans and what happened to these loans over a long period. Many of those who have leased these loans are in fact in the process of executing their assets and in fact, before the current government is one of the most difficult questions how to deal with these borrowers before the final collapse. There was a lot of talk about how the housing fund was operating, how there was actually damage to investors through this promise of new dwellings and, on the other hand, the enrichment of some individuals. And, of course, there have been many such stories throughout this period. It would be, to conclude, illogical for those who made it possible, who had 12 years in the hands of scissors and canvas, to suddenly become investigators, only in the case of one sale, in the case of Mercator's sale. We are about to take a look at this sale, but not only to look at this sale, but also to see how some other sales have been made. In order for this to be possible, however, it is necessary to set up a commission, because only the Commission will then, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure on the Investigative Commission - because the Commission has certain tasks of the investigative bodies - then this Commission will in fact be able to request from Kad and the Court of Justice the documentation and the information necessary for further investigation and for further determination of where the injury occurred, why and in what way and who also benefited from the injury on the other hand. Without a committee in Parliament, this cannot be done. Also, the 39 Members we first proposed to set up this committee were unable to state in their request the accuracy of those companies to be examined. Only the Commission will be able to do so, as I have already said, which will be able to request certain information that is not available at the moment. Let me finish. We would, of course, like to see such a situation in the future that most companies would be sold publicly, it is said, on the stock exchange, and in this direction the government is also committed to selling state shares in this way through the proposal for adopted reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Janc is also registered on behalf of the applicants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! After all that has already been said by Mr Tank and others, I think there has been a lot of talk about why this has happened and what this is related to. On the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, of which I am also a member, we have worked this story thoroughly from the meeting, from one emergency meeting to another emergency session. Many assumptions, many of the 'teas' and many guesses, what is not, what is not, what is not, some specific injury calculations in the Mercator case, 30 billion of how we came to them - there were numerous guesses which were also to me as a member of this commission and as a member of this committee and certainly, and each session was finally strangely concluded and none completed, because I am still convinced that this committee for budgetary and other public finances is not the one who could judge this story. These opinions are, of course, quite shared, I am convinced that this is not the place where this Commission could solve the Mercator case and also all the other cases in which the property of the Soda and Kad were sold in one way or another, in a transparent way that would be most appropriate. Of course, I understand from the opposition colleagues that the Mercator case, which has already occurred in any way, will, of course, be determined later. I believe that this was a particular Slovenian case, that it was not every Slovenian company, but it was Mercator and that we would be wrong about these things, however the government would do it and the competent services responsible would be wrong. If we sell to a domestic investor, it's not right, it would be even worse if Mercator was sold to a foreign investor. In any event, we would meet here today that these government suits and SODs and CADs did not act transparently, did not comply with the legislation, did not offer the best buyer and so on and so on. That is why we are also convinced in the Slovenian People's Party, and also as proponents, that it is appropriate, however, that this matter be settled in a special inquiry committee, to determine whether this transparency was different in Mercator than in all other sales of Slovenian companies in the past. And it is right to get to the bottom of this and to tell the Slovenian public, citizens and citizens whether, in the case of Mercator and other cases, there has been damage, to the large numbers discussed, and to finally "fill pure wine" in a glass, whether someone has actually made a mistake and must answer for this error. I am confident that today we will confirm this parliamentary commission of inquiry and then, in accordance with the powers and in accordance with the procedure in force, we will also come to work actively on this committee, which will be difficult, responsible and, in my opinion, very difficult, because this will be a difficult matter, a difficult area and a lot of work for this commission, which will be followed by the President and Members, especially citizens, we expect results. I hope that's not the river that likes to happen when you can't solve a problem and you set up a commission. I believe that this will not be the case and that the Members who will participate in this committee and everyone else will be active actors and that we will finally be able to resolve as soon as possible when it is possible that we will come to the bottom of this great problem, which is so media-based, which has so many pages in the press and other media and which gives so much suspicion of improper work. I am sure that my view of this problem, for example Mercator, was not quite different from many other Slovenian companies in the past. It is therefore right that this commission does this work in order to find and adopt the report it will be in Parliament and those violators, if they have been, shall also be adequately punished if they have indeed damaged state property and thus all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Janz. We have thus concluded our presentation of the applicants. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Before that, I ask: Mr. Squeakl, did you want a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u12	I just wanted to say, Mr President, that the procedural proposal that we have presented has arguments, of course, that there have been some events prior to today, which are, of course, to be taken into account - the action and before today's meeting, an appropriate proposal has also been sent to the parliamentary groups. [[...]] Therefore, we believe that there are sufficient reasons, irrespective of the provisions of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, which states that all of this must be included in the first next meeting, which we are doing today, but not contrary to the law, nor in the Rules of Procedure, so that, due to the case of conflicting parliamentary investigations and, of course, because of the fact that you have decided at the beginning of this meeting, that you will not include our parliamentary investigations so that we cannot decide today to postpone one of the following meetings. If such a decision were to be taken today, if you were willing to accept such a proposal, it would be possible, of course, that today's debate could also be based on an appropriate decision or that the debate on whether we would have only one or two would be based on the relevant decision of the Court. In this regard, I think it is very important what you yourself said yesterday about the STA that you are looking forward to the verdict. Secondly, we think it is very important that the debate could then be about what kind of parliamentary investigations we have. No one here agrees that it is not an act to order a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. However, even in the debate that has been debated, and this debate has reminded me more of the almost repeat of the interpretation of the previous government than of the debate on the injury to the sale of shares by the Capital Society and the Slovenian Compensation Society, we believe that, of course, if you have already exercised and defended with all your authority the President of the National Assembly, the constitutional right of 39 Members, that of course we also have other Members, the second group of 30 Members, to have the same constitutional right. And you are preventing this constitutional right through procedural implementation. In this sense, I think it is incorrect that you have decided not to put this to the vote because we believe that it is sufficient for us to vote on it. We have a lawsuit, we have suggestions on how to find and find a suitable solution. As of course it was not right for you to prevent the National Assembly from voting at the beginning of the previous meeting on whether our request would come on the agenda. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It is only the National Assembly who, in the end, can decide whether we will have one, two or more. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. I thought you had a new procedural proposal. It was about the old man. You repeated what you said. Then allow me to repeat a slightly more detailed question why I cannot put to the vote on this proposal, for the first time, because the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry based on the Law on Parliamentary Inquiry say that this matter must be resolved at the first next meeting, and this is today. And at the first next session, this is said to be the December session, and an investigative committee will have to be appointed. If, as a precedent, your proposal for a vote could, of course, have been put to the vote and, with a single view to the Chamber, the proposal would have been rejected, thus you would not have obtained anything, but would have been an accepted and established dangerous precedent primarily for the opposition, since in such a case the opposition could then, once the parliamentary investigation for anything else has been requested by the opposition, any government coalition could have delayed the commission of a parliamentary commission with such procedural proposals. This would be contrary to the rules of procedure, but this precedent today could make this possible. I don't think any smart opposition would want that. That is why I do not put this to the vote, and I think it is the right thing to do. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aloise Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you again very much for your word. In Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party we are interested to get to these matters as soon as possible and that the Commission investigates whether in this case the opposition, as the only one in the public domain, has suffered damage to state property. We are also interested that, on the basis of the evidentiary decision it will take, the Commission is also trying to identify or try to access data whether, in cases of sale of shares of state property, damage has been done to other direct market investment sales. I've mentioned them before. It is a matter of selling a large number of companies, so that I will not mention it again, and we are also interested that if it is necessary to make the necessary changes to the legislation under which KAD and SOD are also selling these. The laws are the ones adopted by the previous government coalition and we hope that the Commission will find out as soon as possible in its work. The Mercator story, the sale of KAD's and SOD's shares in Mercator, was launched by the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance, led by Mr Cvikl, in an unusual way, by the fact that the conclusions prepared for the Commission's hearing, the chairman, Mr Cwickl, continued to be presented to the public and then with those conclusions went to the Commission and tried to be accepted by the Commission. So, this is an unusual job, it's not in line with the rules of procedure, and from that point on, this story appears and convinces the public that there has been a lot of damage, damage that counts in apartments, I think you're referring to 3,000 apartments and you're trying to convince the Slovenian public in this way that the sale was harmful. In Novi Slovenije we are convinced that the decision was correct, I said earlier that the shares do not even today reach this value by which the shares were sold, and on the other hand, the value of the shares of those companies that bought this share from KAD and SOD is not increased, according to Istrabenza and Pivovarna Laško. The second option would, of course, be what you kind of demand, but you do not publicly say that you would sell these shares to foreigners. So, of course, when it comes to an economic society as important as Mercator, we cannot warm up and excite, i.e. I would like to point out that the trade activity is very strongly linked to the food processing industry and that in fact the sale of shares in the food processing industry is quite uncertain. Let me give you two examples in this context. The first is an example which, of course, I know very well and whose final scenario actually took place now a few days ago. In this way, the Sugar Factory was sold in Ormož, first sold their shares to KAD and SOD and then sold the shares of the agricultural cooperative, namely Panonka placed her certificates with the Agricultural Society. However, since it was unable to repay the loan, the Land Company sold its share and in this way the Dutch, and the large sugar corporation Kosum and the Italians, received a majority share in the only sugar factory in Ormož. The sugar factory itself currently employs about 200, after most of the more skilled workforce, and it is, of course, linked to the large agricultural area of North-East Slovenia, with some 2 000 500 cooperatives and more operating with this factory. Since a new market order for sugar has now been adopted, of course, it is now up to foreigners to decide whether they will continue to produce sugar in Ormož or whether they will agree to what the new market order offers them, which is in particular a large compensation, they will take the compensation and simply close the factory in Ormož. Of course, they will have to ensure that employees are reclassified and that the facility is disposed of organically, but when you calculate it in financial means at the end, an account will come out to the owners and, of course, it can happen that they will decide to close the factory and thus shut down the production of sugar beet in the Republic of Slovenia. This is one example of how, in the long term, some takeover by foreigners can also be dangerous in this area, which is extremely sensitive. It is not said that they will choose in this way, but the possibility is great. Another area which is also linked and extremely problematic is the dairy industry. At the moment, because of the non-restructuring of dairy in the past, something can happen quickly, that foreigners will also eat it, and in this area too, it is very likely that the livestock sector, which is the most important, this is dairy production, can be at great risk through processing in Slovenia. So I think that the government, and thus also Parliament, will have to make a very rational and very wise decision about what we will sell to foreigners or what is not what would be for sale to foreigners. And I think that the decision - in New Slovenia we are sure - regarding Mercator was correct. The second thing you're reading is a violation of the rules of procedure. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that there was no violation of the Rules of Procedure. You had the opportunity to propose this commission to the opposition immediately. In the beginning, however, I said that you had first come to conclusions and to convince the public how great damage had been caused by the ruling coalition, and then you just announced that you would set up a commission. Therefore, it would be correct to collect these 31 signatures of Members, to request this and today, in this national assembly, to decide on a proposal which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, would be put forward on such a path. However, since you have not done so, we have already said this on behalf of our parliamentary group once again - in the ruling coalition, we have decided to actually cut off these rumors and accusations in such a way that we ourselves propose that this commission be established. And if I conclude with the advice of this committee, we propose in Novi Slovenija, and we are confident that the Commission will adopt such a evidentiary decision, after which Mercator's sales review will take place as its first task. This is, of course, possible, and if this is also a compromise, then in New Slovenia we are convinced that such a compromise can occur. In particular, we propose this because only later, when we have proposed to set up a commission, we have also found out how Mercator Triglav's shares were sold in 2000, who were all signatories and what a harmful contract was actually made up. I would end our presentation by saying once again that we will support the Commission's proposal and that we want this Commission to start its work as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing a proposal or request for the establishment of a parliamentary commission submitted by 29 members of the National Assembly. The Commission aims to identify possible illegal, non-transparent and non-economic sales of capital shares held by the Capital Company and the Slovenian Compensation Company in other companies. The decision to set up such or this parliamentary commission would probably be very simple and would not have been more complicated if it had not been soon after the request that we are discussing today another requirement, which also relates to the sale of KAD and SOD's capital shares, but, unlike the first one, this relates only to the actual sale of capital shares in Mercator, which was carried out on 30.8.2005. Before I speak a little more about our position with regard to the establishment of a parliamentary commission, I would like to stress once again what we say repeatedly in the Slovenian People's Party and also stand behind it, because it is imperative to prevent any damage to social or state property, but it must not be taken into account what political options come from the individual who unlawfully harmed all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore support the establishment of a parliamentary commission, which we are now discussing. I assume that a large part of the debate will be devoted to the debate on why the Commission, which was requested by a group of Members with the first-signed mags, will not be set up. Milan Squeak. For the Slovenian People's Party Group, the only credible opinion on this issue is the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly. In its opinion, it is clear that two parliamentary investigations on the same subject matter of investigation are not allowed. This would also, in our view, be at odds with all legal logic. We therefore agree with the decision of the President of the National Assembly to decide today only on this first request for an investigative commission. We expect this Commission to consider the alleged contested sale of Mercator's capital shares, of 30.8.2005, as a priority. You will also be involved in its work by Members who have submitted a request for a parliamentary inquiry into the Mercator case. Since I am sure that all Members wish to clarify the facts of these sales, I do not believe that the Presidency of the Commission of Inquiry should be one that will in any way interfere with the concrete work or the work of the Commission of Inquiry, but should also take into account the fact that the first request was made by First-signed Member Jozet Tank. As we are told, once again, we find the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly credible. We have always liked to highlight the concrete and proper and quality work of the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly. If we examine some of the magnetograms from the boards of the National Assembly committees, we can read a lot of thanks and praise at the expense of the work of the legal service. Therefore, in a way, we were surprised by the decision of the LDS and the SD to bring an action against the President of the National Assembly because, in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, he failed to carry out a procedure for the establishment of the two Commissions of Inquiry. Of course, we are aware that everyone has the right to judicial protection in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and from this point of view, we do not have any doubts about the action to be decided by the competent court, nor do we rule out the possibility that another commission should be changed to our opinion if the competent authorities decide that this should be the case. The aim of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is to clarify clearly and unequivocally the sale of KAD's and SOD's capital shares and, in this context, the last sale in Mercator. We find it unacceptable that, on the basis of some guesses, indictees and alleged media lynching, certain persons are already being convicted. These issues should be decided by the competent authorities in a timely and legislative manner and, in accordance with their role and tasks, by the Commission of Inquiry, should determine the possible political responsibility of the holders of these public functions. Today's examination of the act on the provision of a parliamentary inquiry is scheduled for a considerable period of time, with seven hours scheduled for discussion. I am afraid that this will repeat the Commission's story on budgetary control and other public finances when the Commission did not have much time to deal with the alleged disputed sale of Mercator's capital shares. Members and invited members have already debated this dilemma at two further meetings and the meeting is still not closed. Most of all, we argued about procedural proposals as to whether the Commission was even competent to review the sale of shares of the parastatal funds of the KAD and the SOD. There were too many Cs, guesses, assumptions and so on in the session. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect this debate to take place in this Chamber today in such a way that there will not be too many speculations and rumours, unverified information. The content of the debate should be discussed with the Commission of Inquiry, which will also be set up today for this purpose. Members of the Slovenian People's Party hope that the established Commission will do its work in a qualitative manner and complete it in due course. We believe that all the Members of this National Assembly will strive, and that I repeat that river, if you don't want to save something, you will set up a commission. I believe that this will not be the case, and I believe that we will be actively involved in the commission, because we want to come to a simple truth about the possible harm to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The opposition is talking about these large numbers, 30 billion in Mercator's case, I wouldn't specifically comment on the calculations of these numbers. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since we have not come far on the budget and other public finances monitoring committee itself, apart from many assumptions and assumptions and guesses as to how and what would and would be, if, and so on, the Commission were to identify these matters and, in my opinion, I say that it is not competent to deal with this difficult matter, I myself have been one of the first candidates on the Commission and I have proposed that the State Assembly set up a commission on alleged damage to state property in the sale of KAD and SOD shares. [[...]] In these major companies, including Mercator, and to establish the transparency of all these sales and, if and where Mercator is selling from other sales in the past. The Commission will be established. She will have a very difficult and responsible job and I believe that she will be able to do it well and find out for the benefit of all citizens and also members of the National Assembly whether there has indeed been damage to the state property and if there has been any economic companies in which they have come and who those actors of this great story have been. The Slovenian People's Party will actively cooperate in this, in order to clarify and identify possible irregularities, of course, and Mercator's story has special attention and priority in solving all of these cases. Anyone would have sold Mercator SOD and IF this share would have been disputed, as I mentioned earlier, either to a domestic or to a foreign investor. But I myself am a proponent of a domestic investor, especially when it comes to a company like Mercator. I am convinced that this business has been well done after all that the whole range of suppliers of this trading house can work positively first and remains the majority of these Slovenian investors, because it is the only way to ensure the transparency and the business circle of suppliers in this great Slovenian trading house. And I also believe that the Slovenian state, and I also believe that our government believes that it sells the chicken that carries the golden eggs to a foreigner, is sometimes even controversial, even at a higher price that it reaches on the foreign market. I believe that this business, which has been so much and so much written and said, has come to the bottom and has found the advantages and possible disadvantages of this sale, if they have been in the sense of a good host, and this should be the Slovenian government and, of course, all those who are actively involved in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! They say man is the only animal that blushes. I say, I should blush more than once, and today it's the turn of day, or it should be the turn of the national assembly to be proud. The proposal that we face today cannot in any way enhance our reputation. According to my assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, he is doing himself a counterservice. According to our assessment or better, we are convinced that, with such work as we have done in the last period of the National Assembly, we are destroying the purpose of the parliamentary investigation. I think that, with this kind of work that we have witnessed in the last month or two, we will cause any outcome, the findings of such a commission to be, these findings will not be credible, they will not be credible, and that with large red letters under this parliamentary inquiry, which we are setting up today and all others, we will write in capital letters, exclusively, politics. I believe that, in the framework of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we are well aware of the history, the controversy and the background of both sides. So the government's parties, which, according to our assessment, in a very incorrect way has brought the request down, have equipped it with signatures to introduce this commission. It identified elements that would lead to the long-term resolution or determination of results and, of course, the non-creditability of the final findings themselves. On the other hand, two opposition parties, the Group of the Liberal Democracy and the Social Democrats, cannot be proud of their proposal. Their proposal, which excludes their past work. And as you probably know or believe that you know, only within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group have we not signed under any of the above requirements, because both requests, both the request of the ruling parties and the request of the two opposition parties, are underlined by the word politics and their purpose is purely politics. When a proposal with a few more than thirty signatures was tabled in the parliamentary procedure, the first proposal, while, of course, the second proposal has been discussed for a long time, we have tried to convene a consultation in the National Party. They were not impressed with the meeting by the ruling parties. They showed their dissatisfaction with ignorance. Nor was the leadership of the National Assembly thrilled, or better said, that the President of the National Assembly was not impressed by the reference to the underworld, according to my assessment of the pretense that a Member had exceeded his powers because he was trying to bring the matter to a different purpose and to a different life form in the form of a dedication. So, within the national party, we believe that it would be wise to interrupt today's point in order not to set up this political parliamentary inquiry, so we can call it, if you want someone else in this national assembly, whether it be the Vice-President, the President or the Member of Parliament, anyone, to convene a meeting at which all together would set up one parliamentary commission. One parliamentary commission that does not have a political background. But of course this would be naive to expect, given that we had this option, we had a meeting in the framework of LDS, NSI, DeSUS, you boycotted this meeting. They have come and, of course, I must be so honest, representatives of the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats Group. Both agreed at a given moment that it is reasonable to take a step forward on this simple ignorant or rather selfish policy that you have been pursuing in recent months or two. But in any case, a person would probably be very naive and I don't believe that anyone is so naive in this national council that he expects wisdom to prevail over the interests of capital. Or, rather, over the interests of politics. That is why we have decided in the national party that we will not participate in the next debate. A further discussion will be like that of my colleagues before me. So one of them will point to the other, and those parliamentary groups that are yet to come together will point to the other, but of course both will point with a fig in their pocket, because something other than the accusation, from this parliamentary commission, will not look like the light of the world. And that I will not delay you too much time just predict that we will not participate in the national party, nor in the establishment or determination of the act, nor in the further discussion around this, let us say, the national assembly farce and, of course, not as members of these commissions. We believe, however, that there could be another Member who would follow the position of the Slovenian National Party and thus make it clear that such games, which unfortunately received the green light by the leadership of the National Assembly, are simply not going in this house, that is, in the House of Parliament. Therefore, within the framework of the point of the so-called Co-Investigative Commission, we are cancelling or, in other words, obstructing this item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Messengers and Members! I give the opinion of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensions on the request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to state property in the sale of KAD and SOD shares in companies. The request for the establishment of a parliamentary investigative commission was triggered by direct sales of almost 30% of the ownership of KAD and SOD in Mercator. According to the SOD, if the Mercator stock purchase were to be invested in its denationalisation obligations, in 2009 it would have about half a billion SITs more than it would have received from Laško from the brewery in about four years. With this, in public disputed sales, the government is expected to begin to achieve a priority in the field of economics, which is the withdrawal of the state from the economy. The circumstances of the allegedly damaged state property will undoubtedly need to be investigated. With the request made as a coalition partner, we wanted to identify the political responsibility and financial consequences of selling KAD and SOD shares in all companies of the previous mandate. There were public doubts about the correctness of sales, particularly the misuse of internal information, regarding Mercator. In the case of Mercator, the para-state fund could withstand 2.8 billion more if the price of SIT 41,000 was the same as that of Jankovic's children. At the same time, the recapitalisation option for these funds is not excluded, and it is a complete withdrawal from the economy, but is reclassified to a gradual one. We are wondering whether it would be reasonable to maintain the minimum shares in companies if a contract on the sale of shares is concluded before that to a strategic owner. The point of business for the country is questionable. With regard to the requirements put forward for the establishment of an investigative commission, both coalition and opposition, we believe that it makes sense to merge the two requirements into the priority treatment of Mercator, which is to begin in 2006. Subsequently, investigations into the sale of capital shares following that order The remaining 82 companies are subject to Tank's requirements. We agree with the finding of a legislative and legal service which has pointed out the contradiction in paragraph 6 of the preceding paragraph with regard to the sale, takeover premium in explanation of the request submitted. Therefore, it is inconsistent to define the purpose of the investigation, the responsibilities found on the one hand and, on the other, to justify the institutions of public functions. In all of this, we would like to draw attention in particular to the fact that the State provides an effective legal framework in which the State, as the owner of the company, acts with a clear and consistent ownership policy, manages the appropriate level and establishes an effective system of internal control or audit and independent external control or audit at the annual level in accordance with international standards as complementary to State control or audit as the Court of Auditors. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the request for the establishment of an investigative commission is supplemented by a priority start of the Mercator investigation. Therefore, in our view, there is no need for another commission of inquiry. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we will support the complementary request for the establishment of an investigative commission, which is in line with the opinion of the legislative and legal service.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Yelena. Mrs Polonca Dobrajc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Mr President, fellow Members, fellow Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group fully supports the request for a parliamentary inquiry. In particular, given that the purpose of the investigation is to determine whether sales of KAD and SOD’s shares were non-economic, non-transparent and contrary to the applicable legislation. In addition, it will be necessary to determine whether these sales have resulted from damage to state property if, at what level and by which extent, such sales may be politically responsible or whose interests and interests may have led to such sales. KAD and SOD are financial funds set up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. With the adoption of the Property Transformation Act, companies received 10% of their former social capital. The task of KAD is to co-finance the intergenerational needs of the pension fund and the task of the SOD is to finance compensation to denationalising beneficiaries. In the event that the funds acted or dealt with the assets received in a non-economic manner, only that would not be sufficient to cover the liabilities of those funds and the difference would have to be paid from the State budget, that is from the pockets of all taxpayers. The amounts, according to public rumours and the eternal claim that there is an irregularity in the sale of capital shares, may reach billions of sums. It is in the interest of all Slovenian taxpayers to determine whether the funds have acted economically, transparently and in accordance with the applicable legislation when selling shares in companies. Unfortunately, however, since the first sales of shares in KAD and SOD companies in the public sector, there has been doubts about this. It is known that most sales took place directly, without a public publication for the sale of shares, customers should agree with the KAD and SOD responsible for the price, without an independent professional analysis or even a support based on current stock prices. Direct sales, which exclude both foreign and domestic competition, foreign and domestic stakeholders, may at the same time exclude the possibility of reaching a higher selling price and thus indirectly damage social property. Notwithstanding the fact that the request for the appointment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry was made on the basis of the sale of a share in the incursion of a Slovenian trading company, the Slovenian Democratic Party Group considers that the time has come when it wonders how social or state property was transferred to private property during the transition period. It should be recalled that the period of ten or fifteen years has also been the period of former directors operating in the planned economy, and they have become successful managers and even owners of large businesses in the market economy over a certain period of time. Of course, there is nothing wrong with this, but there has never been a question of how and how this has occurred. There was a period when the credibility and legality of individual transactions were assessed only by the size or size of the individual’s ownership shares, and never was it ever asked what was the way they got into these equity shares. I think now is the time, and so do all members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, to ask questions. Issues within the framework of the request for a parliamentary inquiry. However, the parliamentary investigation should, on the basis of its powers, determine and clarify the actual situation and reject or confirm rumors that have been instilling the Slovenian public for a decade. The purpose of the parliamentary investigation is not merely to determine the possible abuse of the holders of public powers. No, the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is also to propose, in view of the existing situation, an amendment to the legislation. And the process of withdrawing the country from the economy has not yet been completed. And even if it is found that irregularities have been committed, it is still time to install security guards in legislation on the basis of the findings of the parliamentary investigation. The Slovenian Democratic Party's emissary group is of the opinion that it is high time to ask the question of how the objectives were achieved and the aim was to transform social or state property into private property. However, a resource cannot be donated to the legality of business solely on the basis of the size and thickness of the wallet and the size of the ownership shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Dobrajchev. Mr Anton Rop will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members! At today's meeting, the National Assembly will set up a parliamentary inquiry at the request of 39 members of the ruling coalition. In doing so, we would like to point out at the LDS House of Members that we do not challenge the constitutional right of government Members to set up an investigative commission to investigate the allegedly controversial sale of KAD's and SOD's capital shares from the period of the previous government. On the contrary, we think it is good that this is okay, this is your right, it is right to use it to the fullest extent, it is right to find out what you are saying here today, to determine whether there has been any sales of shares in the past, shares, purchases, irregularities. Actually, it's also your job if you want moral duty. Last but not least, it was an important part of your political agenda, performances, probably also success in the elections and related precisely to the fact that you want the business of shares, shares, governance with the country to be fair, transparent, and in such a way that in no case will it be disputed. This request of yours is absolutely appropriate and I strongly support it. I also support it because it is a fact that we have tried to withdraw the country from businesses in the past period. And as a result, KAD and the SOD sold around 40% of their shares and shares in various companies, including banks and insurance companies, and this led to a lot of transactions, and in this first request you put the whole number, which went to 1200 shares and shares, you later found that this was too much for one investigative commission, in particular for a parliamentary investigative commission and you have reduced that number accordingly, so this is not a problem. So, I don't know why such introductions are here today in the introductions and why you're interfering with other areas. We can also talk about these areas and do interpretation of the previous governments for another five years perhaps, perhaps by the end of this mandate, in order never to start dealing with this government, with this government, which now has all the instruments, all the resources and all the resources. In this context, I would like to make it very clear that you have and supervise fully what is right, the ruling coalition, the management board of the Slovenian Compensation Society, the KAD Supervisory Board, the Prime Minister is the President of the SOD Assembly, so all the data are available to you and, as he once said in the discussion on the sale of weapons by the current Prime Minister, it is your duty to criminalise and to demand responsibility from those who have done anything wrong in the past, as it has been in the past, also now. Well, that doesn't bother me, and I think it's good. However, I find it very controversial that you have cited some of the cases that, at least in my opinion, are good cases that we have heard about the Lek case today. We have already talked a lot about this and I am very pleased that you will consider Lek on your investigative committee, because if you design it this way and insist that there is no compromise in the establishment of your investigative commission, then you will work on this committee yourself, you will investigate, you will control yourself, you will see the data yourself, we will not participate in such a farce, but we will gladly also explain to the Slovenian public once again, twice again, what happened in the case of Lek, when 80% of the premium was realized. I will always be ready to discuss, for example, the sale of 33% of the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank and the takeover premium that was realised in this case, at 150%, including the Triglav insurance company, how and how we received the constitutional dispute, also how and how we prevented the damage to state capital, social capital of around 150 billion, these are good topics and we are not afraid of them, and we want to discuss this with you, also because we are convinced that they are good, including the Ormož sugar factory, we are ready to talk at any time, although it would be good for us to ask Mr. Gantar, who is a member of the Republican Assembly, who was at the meeting on 12 August at the Prime Minister's meeting, when he was talking about what we are witnessing these days, which is a member of the Assembly for the Republic and was at the meeting on 12 August 12th, when the meeting, when we discussed what we are talking about this transaction with Mr. All this is open, all this is possible, you can do it all. But we urge you to allow the opposition to play its constitutional role, to exercise its constitutional rights. That is why we want to tell you that today we are not only deciding on the investigative commission of government Members, but also on the constitutional right of opposition Members to set up an investigative commission in the event of damage to state property in the sale of Mercator shares. By not being appointed today by the parliamentary commission of inquiry at the request of opposition Members, we are being violated by constitutional rights. The President of the National Assembly used the power to judge both the procedural and substantive assumptions of the request of the 31 members of the opposition, which is not his jurisdiction, and therefore it is an eccentric violation, both of the Constitution, of the law and of the Rules of Procedure. In the procedure for determining the parliamentary inquiry, the President of the National Assembly shall not have such powers. As long as such powers are not regulated by laws, they do not exist and should not be exercised. Since neither the Constitution nor the Law on Parliamentary Investigation provide for the possibility of setting up two commissions of inquiry, which are only partially overlapped or excluded by content, the National Assembly - we firmly believe so - should respect the 93rd Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and ensure the constitutional right of 30 Members. Furthermore, we are convinced that, after the content and the intended time, the demands of the opposition Members differ significantly from those of the ruling coalition. In addition, the requirement of the 39 members of the ruling coalition is such - and this has been pointed out to you and is particularly pointed out by the legislature and has also warned the President of the National Assembly - that it is practically impossible to conclude this mandate. This legislative and legal service is particularly drawing attention to and has specifically warned the President of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly, unfortunately, refused to listen to this, refused to listen because it did not suit him. If we look at your request, we see that you have the above 83 sales, 83 cases, 83 companies. Each one of these cases is probably a story to himself, it is necessary to look at what valuation was in the background, what proportion was sold to, who was sold, why it was sold, in short, it is necessary to take a full look at each case. And a simple calculation shows that if we take half a year for each case, and so far experience from investigative commissions in the National Assembly shows that it is undoubtedly necessary to take at least half a year, we would need to come through 83 cases 41 years, 41 years. However, even if there is a assumption that some of you have indicated that all the information is already available to you, that it is becoming more or less clear, it would take at least one month on the investigative committee or you would need it on the investigative committee, and this time will show at least one month to process one company and one case. And that means you're going to keep meeting and writing conclusions about each of these cases. If you spend at least one month on each of these cases, you need seven years to complete in all 83 cases. It is clear, therefore, that the notice of the legislature is the right to lie, to have the foundations and I am very sorry that the President of the National Assembly did not take it into account and not to take it into account. Of course, the question is why you do not heed it and why you do not want to follow it. So, unfortunately, you're not allowing the opposition to set up an investigative commission, and that's not good for democracy. Secondly, the establishment of such a government commission of inquiry, as is being established today, effectively prevents the disclosure of the responsibilities of current holders of political functions, including the Prime Minister. If you look at the motion for an order you have on the bench, you see Mercator is in sixth place. So nothing helps you to swear that you'll take this as a priority, Mercator is in sixth place. And what is a fundamental problem with the government investigative commission is that those who should be supervised, supervised and supervised will be themselves. Those who set up the commission of inquiry, and this we have witnessed today, which some of you have argued, are already arguing in the explanatory statement and you continue to argue that if Mercator's shares are sold, everything is fine. We heard here today that everything was fine. If it's all right, then why are you doing the investigation? Leave the opposition to conduct an investigation to find out the facts, let the opposition hire any expert to see if he can make an assessment of being an independent expert. Allow the opposition to look at what is actually happening, leave the opposition if you do not believe your future Minister of Development, the man who is leading your reforms, who has told you that this is an irrational transaction, that it is harmful to this country. Leave the opposition to find other experts. If Dr. Damjan isn't enough, maybe Dr. Mrkaić doesn't suit you anymore and you don't believe him anymore. But you may believe, or you may believe Dr. Simoniti, who told you the same thing in the Mercator case. So when all of this is heard, when all of this is seen, the impression is that with this investigative committee you want to prevent, above all, the responsibility of the current holders of political functions, very clear and very transparent, and I hope that the Slovenian public sees this and that the Slovenian public will also understand it. Let me give you some facts that suggest that Mercator's case should be dealt with as a priority, first, in particular, and that things should get to the bottom. First time. Mercator shares were sold during the current ruling coalition. There's no doubt about it, and so do you, I don't think you do. Another time. They were sold directly after the meeting of key players with the Prime Minister on 12 August. There's no doubt about that either. Mercator shares were sold in a package, sold in a package and sold directly, without a call, without a call for tenders, without a premium. It will be very interesting to see how many transactions in the past have been made so directly, without a call for tender, without a call for tenders, without a takeover premium. And control packages, not like portfolio investment or sales. This will be very interesting and, of course, it is right for those who, if they have done and done such transactions, have responded. Including all of us who are here. And this opportunity, this opportunity and opportunity of your investigative commission gives you and you can figure it out and, of course, here you also reach responsibility. So Mercator's shares were sold to those who were prior to the meeting at the Prime Minister's meeting on 12 August. So they were sold directly after the meeting and sold to those who were on the market. And who was selling the shares? Those who met with the Prime Minister. Mercator shares were also exchanged by another participant at a meeting on 12 August with the Prime Minister, the KD Director, Mr Gantar. He sold those shares in the end, too. Of course, he sold them or traded them for shares in the newspaper company, Delo. This operation was done in the end. So Mercator's shares were sold without a takeover premium, below the price, at my estimate without comparison and according to some estimates, estimates vary with the injury of 29 billion Slovenian tolars. And the task of the Commission of Inquiry, I think, should be to determine, on the basis of expert opinions, knowledge, also audit, what the actual injury was. It is for this purpose that the Commission of Inquiry should first determine, and then, of course, also requires political responsibility on the part of the holders of political functions, those who have been involved in this trade, which is harmful and will undoubtedly show time. And what we listen to in all these facts. KAD and SOD, representatives of KAD and SOD, the State Secretary, claim before the entire Slovenian public that they sold shares due to lower expected returns. They're telling us Mercator is a non-performing company and he's going to get lower returns, lower profits, and that's why they decided to sell. Very unusual. While they claim to have sold their shares for this reason, they are also predicting that Mercator will be recapitalised. First they sell because it's a non-perspective company because the shares are bad and then they say, because we're going to buy them, we're going to recapitalize Mercator. What's the point? Maybe you can explain it to me. I don't know. I think the investigative committee needs to find out. They say Mercator is a non-performing company, but at the same time we get data on the table, and everyone can look at it as an increase in income by 26.5% this year. By 26.5%, his share increased and his profit increased by 47% while selling shares without a takeover premium, interestingly. And they say it's an unsuspecting company! Unpredictably, the company has increased its profit by 47%. Tell me another such company in Slovenia, where the country has so much share, and we would sell it in this way. You will find it difficult, you will find it even harder to sell without a takeover premium and at such a price and in a completely unsolicited way and untransparent. Shareholders and government representatives have publicly pointed out that in this case it is only portfolio investment. You can read the announcements for the public, they were published at the STA. They tried to convince the Slovenian public at press conferences, with press releases, that it was only about investments where you were loading them, so that you had shares, that the value of the shares was growing, that it was not about taking Mercator and, of course, there was no reason to take over the premium and therefore there was no reason to claim that there had been so much damage to state capital. So, what's the truth? What, though, is a fact that can be identified today? Firstly, Mercator bought connected persons connected to persons in terms of ownership shares in one and the other company and, of course, also personally connected because the people of Lazko are simultaneously in the Istrabenz supervisory world and are connected. There's no doubt about that. It's not bad in itself, I'm not saying it's bad. What I'm saying is that it was related people who were linked to buying shares that were sold as minorities and therefore sold at a lower price. That's what I'm saying. And that can be proved and confirmed today. There is no doubt that these two companies have taken over Mercator in full. In line with what we have said, they have also taken over the supervisory board and replaced the director. And I'm only saying this because, of course, it's just proof that they took over the company. And if they've already taken over the company as far as possible, then we should pay the takeover premium. Then there's no reason not to pay for that takeover at a higher price. Then there is no reason why the SOD and the CAD, as here the SDS representatives claimed and defended, would receive substantially larger purchases in order to make public debt substantially lower from this title, in order to make it significantly easier to finance the SDS, the pension fund and all those claims arising from denationalisation. The last time we saw here is how, by financing the denationalisation bonds and finding that there is no doubt that the difference between the assets held by the SOD and the KAD would have to be paid by the State to have to pay by the Slovenian taxpayers. We all agreed on that, and that is certainly true. And why is it going to the investigative commission? It's about finding out if there's really been any damage to this 29 billion. Will the taxpayers really have to pay for this? Maybe that's not true. Perhaps foreign experts, domestic experts, unlike the ones I've previously listed, will find that business is fine. But leave the opposition to have an investigative commission, let the opposition lead the investigation in the Mercator case. You have no need to be convinced that everything was fine, that you were especially protecting the government, the Prime Minister, if you are convinced that everything was transparent, if you do not believe Dr Damian and anyone else who specifically advertised and told the Slovenian public what was necessary. So there is no longer any doubt that it was a takeover in this case and that in this case it was a violation of certain laws. There was a violation of the takeover law, a violation of the securities market law, while criminal charges were also filed as we heard them. All of this has already been demonstrated so far, more than enough reasons for this, without the takeover premium being paid to be made and the Mercator case should be considered as a priority and the Commission of Inquiry should carry out its task as it goes. And what's been going on these last few days, which we've been witnessing for the last few days, of course, shows that the whole operation is not completely finished. Operation that began on 12 August at a meeting with the Prime Minister. A few days ago, we witnessed a sale or exchange of shares in Del. Mr. Gantar and KD have made a deal with the Laska Brewery. He's got the job. So there was a second takeover. But there's a difference between one and the other, you know. If you look at and ask someone to calculate for you, you will find that when Mercator was taken over, where the price was paid by the taxpayers, there was no takeover premium, the price was lower, while the takeover was paid a takeover premium, fair and good. Calculate the difference between Mercator's price plus this difference resulting from the same sale or price of Dela and Mercator shares and the story and image will be transparent and clear. So realisation, the last goal in this business, is likely to follow any further, this is taking over work at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers, at the expense of reducing the value of the assets of KAD and SOD. Dear Members! Finally, let me stress once again that we do not dispute back investigations, do this, this is your duty and we also expect you to do this and not surprise us. Do this on the basis of arguments, evidence, documents, facts, control of the SOD and KAD, boards of directors, supervisory board, you are a ruling coalition, you have all the instruments in your hands, and I expect you to do this thoroughly, purposefully and to the end. Of course, I ask and appeal to you to allow the opposition to play its constitutional role. I would like to tell you that we strongly challenge the abuse of the investigation commission's instrument to prevent parliamentary investigation and to protect those responsible for the harmful Mercator contract. Let the laws be the same for all! Let the principles for all be the same! Investigate us, all those who have been involved in anything in the past, if you think we have been - there is no problem. But please, on behalf of democracy, on behalf of the development of Slovenia, let this happen to those who are now ruling. That they too are subject to laws and the Constitution, that is all we appeal to, and nothing else we want to achieve. We invite you to allow the widest Slovenian public to learn all the facts about the harmful sale of Mercator shares. At the same time, I call on you not to lower democratic standards in Slovenia. Today, the LDS Club and the Social Democrats have sent you a letter, our view of how we picture a way out of this problem, how we imagine a way and way to achieve what I have talked about today in order to achieve equality before the law for all who are at any time or perform public political functions in Slovenia. I think that's a good way. I suggest you take a good look at this, study it, and if you're in favour of going this way, then I urge you to go together and reach this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Rope. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The debate so far has put me in a position not to know whether we are already listening to the report of the Commission of Inquiry on the results of the investigation following the content of the 39 Members and Members' request. At times, it seemed to me that we were discussing the initiation of an investigation on the basis of a request from 31 Members, which, unfortunately, you did not allow and is not on the agenda today. Above all, I have had the feeling that many of us mix things up and we do not want to take into account that there should be clear criteria and procedures in the National Assembly, that we should apply them all equally, that the coalition cannot deprive them of its own measure and wishes, that the President of the National Assembly should not be able to act formally, and that the content should help one of the groups in the National Assembly to exercise its interests, and that the other group should make it difficult for the same constitutional right. I believe that the only good that has been in the debate so far has been and I hope that it will be in the future, that it is us, or that it is you, and that the President of the National Assembly will also allow me to talk about everything within the time available, because today it is truly clear to everyone who is "passing along and which does not fit in", I think, there has already been a speech. I would like in particular to point out in my debate the argument which convinces me of my conclusions which are common to my Group of Members, as well as to my colleagues in the Liberal Democracy, that the constitutional right to initiate an investigation has been denied to us so far. Secondly, that you have done this knowingly because you do not want to, do not allow, do not want to, you are afraid, it is politically unacceptable for you that the opposition would form an investigative commission on Mercator's issues, where there is no doubt that it is possible that representatives of the current government - from the President, the Minister of Economic Affairs or his secretary of State - have also participated in the sale of KAD's and SOD's shares in Mercator - from the President, the Minister of Economic Affairs or his secretary of State, and that you do not want this to be assessed and assessed that you have tried to use those parts of the legislative and legal services that have responded to you and such political logic. Those parts that would possibly be unkind to you and would point to something else, but you have not taken them lightly and read them, which is a typical example of how it is not entirely considered that you are parts of the legal texts or rules that apply to the National Assembly or to the National Assembly, from the Constitution, laws, regulations and the like, you have also robbed yourself of your usefulness and that, therefore, as an opposition, you are conscious of the fact that it is not an act of unconsciousness, you are deliberately preventing the use of the constitutional institution of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, because you do not allow and do not want the 31 members and members of the opposition to have the opportunity and the possibility that through the parliamentary commission of inquiry also influence its composition, influence and conduct of this parliamentary inquiry, the President or the President has some special duties and advantages, we all know because you are simply afraid that anyone other than yourself would have a political basis. And what would you like to say for these statements, as arguments? First, the whole process of how the President of the National Assembly decided that the Commission of Inquiry was 39 Members and Members of the Coalition was the only right. The only mistake, but this error is neither formal nor political, but it can only be linked to the simple inability of Members and members of the opposition to imagine that there is a desire in the heads of the coalition to prevent a parliamentary investigation of the opposition. I have to say, until you did, I didn't believe it. I would say that I believed in the fundamental integrity of the coalition, and I believe that you would allow the opposition to form a parliamentary investigative commission as well. Today you have already said, also politically: Yes, how do you gentlemen think that you, who ruled 12 years ago, could now have your parliamentary investigation and run it!" You can see that from the magnetograms. You made it clear that this is out of the question. I admit that I couldn't imagine it, regardless of all the actions you've had in the National Assembly so far. And in this part, I would say to myself, as a mistake, that I believed too much in your honesty and that I did not assume such abuse of the majority. Everything else was logically meant to do so. The law enforcement department found that you didn't know how to write your closing roles, and you had to fix it three times, and it helped you. In similar cases, the President of the National Assembly could have found that this role was rejected because it was inconclusive, which he had already done in some cases when it was politically appropriate. He allowed it to be repaired. Okay. That it was being repaired so long as it was not nearly in line with what the legislative and legal service required. But, I emphasize, only roughly in line. You and the President of the National Assembly have overlooked the part where it was explicitly stated, but if the parliamentary inquiry, which will be initiated on the basis of the request of 39 Members and Members, does not have an absolute priority for Mercator, then there will be a substantial different legal qualification of the possibility of the two Commissions being united, since the timing of implementation is essential. That didn't suit you, and you missed it. Perhaps because you did not like to read four pages and 12 or 15 lines, you preferred to read only half of the fourth page, where there are also some texts that fit you. I would like to say that the legislative and legal service has made it clear that one thing the predecessor has already pointed out is for the first time that it is necessary to assess whether there is even so much scope to deal with within this investigative commission, and this is the first condition that it can be established. And the second is that it is possible to establish one only if an absolute advantage is given to Mercator. The only thing the legislature has accepted is the fact that, and also said, "You are guilty of yourself" in saying that you will not have a president of the commission of inquiry, because we consider that the one that was first invested has this priority. Secondly, what I would like to stress in this regard is the fact that when you decided to form only one investigative commission and disable our constitutional right to do so, it was a political decision, you started looking for formal reasons to justify it. I must say, as far as I'm concerned, you have found very questionable legal reasons, in many ways very much for the hair attracted. Look, there's one legal reason, but you're looking at different examples. One legal reason is that our current rules of procedure governing the legislative procedure determine which law has the advantage. Yeah, he does, he's just setting it up in the legislative process. Parliamentary investigation is a special constitutional institution which has its own law and its own rules of procedure. Find me that in this law and in this Rules of Procedure, whatever it says about priority, whatever it says about the inability of the two parallel commissions of inquiry, whatever it says about how to resolve the potential competitiveness of proposals, because the content is partially covered. If you find it, I'll be willing to admit my legal error. I say now that you will not find, but you have no right, none, except that you are adapting the JUS to your political measure to say that the parliamentary investigation is subject to a legislative procedure. It's not true, it can't. Second. You claim that in the parliamentary procedure for the establishment of investigative commissions, the constitutional legal principle of Article 31 - "not bis and imam" - does not apply twice to the same thing. It's an explicit criminal law principle. That's right. The implementation of this principle must be explicitly regulated by law and cannot be made up. It is impossible to apply this principle, if it is not in law, in the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, if it is not criminal matters. But this is not about any criminal law issue, even less, nor is it about any court proceedings. Your reference to Article 93 and the trial is once again a pure abuse of law. The principles applicable to courts shall apply mutatis mutandis to investigations and investigations. Just for these two cases, and that makes sense. You're talking about a parliamentary investigation being some kind of court case. Yeah. That's what you want. You are leading some investigative committees in this way to determine who is to blame, who is not to blame. Unfortunately, this is not a parliamentary investigation. Finally, the parliamentary commission of inquiry does not decide anything, suggests, conducts the necessary hearings, inquiries and so on. We have a law that provides the necessary protection for participants, witnesses, experts, possible investigators, also gives the right to a parliamentary inquiry to call under certain conditions for a hearing, when the right to testify, when you can testify, when you are forgiven. In short, these necessary legal guarantees, but no other legal proceedings. You may want to bring him in, but there's no trial. First, it is necessary to read laws and constitutions in the way their content is, not in the way that it suits someone. To talk about the protection of human rights and the desire to prevent the rights of Members at the expense of the protection of human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, be precise! You want to protect exactly the rights of some of your officials and only them. Only the Prime Minister, perhaps the Minister, and anyone who could possibly be an investigator could be called to a parliamentary inquiry. It's not about human rights. Moreover, you are trying to protect them just so that they do not have to testify because nothing but the duty of testifying and confessing against this parliamentary commission of inquiry is regulated by this. So don't make a pretty face in front of the public to protect human rights in this country. Yes, you protect your friends and your officials and prevent the commission of inquiry from being established for this case as well. You know in time that the decision that we are going to make today, which is formally correct, of course assumes 83 cases, Mercator puts it in sixth place and, among other things, it says that Mercator will start in 2006. No one will be able to tell you if at the end of 2006, you will have a first session of the parliamentary investigation and say, we are starting the Mercator case and then you will postpone it for the next two years. And you'll say, "We wrote this, didn't you know how to read it?" We can read, ladies and gentlemen, we can read that this is a pure floscule, which means a fool to act and assume that we believe what you really meant. You, you don't want to give Mercator these advantages. If you wanted it, you'd put it first, if you wanted it, you'd say you'd work with us to finish Mercator first, and then we'd do anything else that doesn't bother us. Not to say, however, that by writing down that it will start in 2006, it also means that it will be run in 2006 and later. At least it will be completed at this time. This is the first case, ladies and gentlemen, in which the National Assembly will prevent a group of 30 and more Members and Members from forming a parliamentary inquiry. It's never been like this before. Regardless of the mood, the different views, and also the different attitude towards the many investigative commissions that we have had, we know and know today that there is no vote on this. And because this is not being voted on, in our view, it is the decision of the President of the National Assembly not to allow this to be placed on the agenda that is so much more unfair for us. Because at the time of its inclusion, another investigation would have been initiated, as the National Assembly could not take this into account except after the discussion. I think it would be wise and right if you could just think once again about whether your wishes and political definitions, in every way with your own authority, which is just the majority, are formally without any basis for these decisions, be smart about it, or sooner or later this abuse of power will come so far as to hit you on the head. So it would be good if we could just ask someone else whether all the actions you have done so far are such that they can be legally defended. Therefore, it has also been our initiative that, as we have said so far, a political agreement is possible not to rule it out. However, we felt obliged to use the necessary legal channels because they have been abused by you in the National Assembly so far in such a way that the confidence that future conduct would also be in line with the Constitution, laws and regulations is no longer on our side. We are therefore proposing a reflection, because, at least in my firm opinion, this will be known as the erosion of the rule of law and the understanding of the law that will not benefit anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Run. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I give my word to Mr. Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today's rich debate already on behalf of the parliamentary groups on the establishment of an investigative commission of the ruling coalition, which, while holding all the receptions with which it can and must identify and sanction any disputed proceedings in the ownership processes, has shown how serious we mean or mean this commission and how seriously you are primarily dealing with the fact that you are preventing opposition control over the mistakes made in a year, what you are in power. I am not blinding myself to the fact that everything in the past has been as it should have been, but this must not be an excuse for the non-establishment of the opposition investigative commission. The mistakes made in the past cannot and must not serve as a reason or excuse for repeating similar mistakes. In the introduction, the speakers explained their views and intentions, which led to the establishment of a commission that would deal with matters that the coalition should explore and also act on other ways. We will therefore set up a commission that will deal with everything and at the same time with nothing. This will also be the final result of the work of this Commission. Nothing, that's all. Another commission will prove that the Commissions of Inquiry are only a room of manoeuvre for the release of rhetorical fog, which, when it is slowly revealed that there are not many changes or changes other than rumors. It can be slightly different if it has a concrete proposal and a clear plan of what we want. By doing so today, you have successfully prevented this meeting, including the President of the National Assembly. I have a feeling that we haven't changed our bets yet. One year after the elections, you still act like opposition Members and do not really accept the message that voters have given you a year ago that you are now the one responsible for doing this country. But not only for the good, but perhaps for the bad or the bad. It is essentially about the establishment of this power demonstration commission, the power of the majority over the minority in this House. Be aware, dear colleagues and colleagues, that such a demonstration of power will return sooner or later as a boomerang, in such a way as to be the same, or perhaps in a much worse form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello to all the MPs you've left in the hall. I support the establishment of a parliamentary commission that will require data from the SOD and the KAD and clear up the sale of shares of state property, not only in Mercator, but also in other companies. Let the cards be placed on the table and clear responsibility for all suspicious sales of state property. All you care about in the opposition is selling in Mercator, but not in other successful companies. Probably wouldn't have so much dust and wind from the opposition if it hadn't taken the best neighbor's boss days ago because he was running out of absolute power. It was removed by the owners, some of you thought it was eternal and only he was capable. I understand your position. I'm surprised to hear the cries of the workers, the shops that work on Sundays and the holidays for the minimum wage. In all public media, however, he threatened to release them if the will of the same people, expressed in the referendum, would not be enforced if it was established after closing trade on Sundays. It has also successfully destroyed all competition over the years, in particular small businesses from types of trade. Here I would read a section from the written media, showing how political and economic power grew, the company led by Jankovic. In fact, the company's political power mirrored its development after 1997 when Jankovic took the lead. In 1997, it had only 15.4% of the market share, and with Maximarket's acquisition last year, its presence in the domestic market had already exceeded 50%. The central mechanism for increasing domestic market share was the acquisition of other companies and the acquisitions had strong political support from the parties to the authorities and the current President of the State of Kučan all the time. Mercator financed company acquisitions mainly by borrowing from domestic and foreign banks. The company’s balance sheet shows that the share of the financing debt doubled between 1997 and 2004 and jumped from 28.3 to 53.4%. A higher share of the company's debt financing in banks is one of the reasons for Mercator's high return on capital in recent years and so on. In New Slovenia, we are in favour of withdrawing the country from the economy, we are in favour of a competitive economy and also for the fair sale of state property in the sense of a good host, so I support the establishment of a parliamentary commission to examine all suspicious sales of state property, while stressing that the sale of state property must also be transparent, not by the fact that the deal takes place at one meeting, as you always say, and then by proving a suspicious or unsuspecting business for six months, as one of the opposition Members said. So we'd need you for 83 suspicious or unsuspecting sales for 41 years. Certainly this was not a matter of pure and transparent business, so it is all the more important to set up a commission and clear up suspicious transactions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Uhanov. Dr. Mark Pavlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word, your distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the professor's wire makes me feel kind of happy over today's debate. In fact, for years and years I will be able to give students an example of how the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation should not be used and how such an institution should not be decided in the National Assembly. We liked to hear and quote a few Latin expressions today, and among them was "not bis and go". Why is it as amazing as it sounds? The world has never seen it. And I can't get past Latin either. The ancient Roman term is also: "dami facti dabo tibius", which means give me the facts and I'll give you the right. Consider the facts: the disputed meeting on 12 August, attended by the Prime Minister and discussed at this meeting the sale of contested shares, then the sale of these shares itself, and the question of our colleague, Dr Lahovnik, the announcement by 31 opposition members and Members of Parliament to submit an application for the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry, and then the submission of a request by 39 coalition members and Members, with whom it seems very clever and hourly preceded the opposition, but only seemingly. I mean, if you would say, because you have a legitimate right, because you're actually us, and I'm going to use a Serbian term here, which will not be popular, because you've outsmarted us, too. But on the other hand, we can see that, of course, it was not "overthinking", but it was what can also be said in Latin as "and fraudem legis agre", bypassing the law. The request itself does not contain a bit of kindness, for if it were benevolent, Mercator would be first, not sixth, not placed somewhere in the future, in 2006, perhaps 2007, when only birds will be squinting about the problem and the matter will be forgotten more or less. We are talking about the competitiveness of two requirements. Neither the Law on Parliamentary Investigation nor our Rules of Procedure prevent two committees dealing with the same matter. Here, for the first time, it is not the same thing, it is only a similar matter, and secondly, colleagues and colleagues, I point out one of the old legal principles that, in such cases, it is always necessary to decide not in the interests of bureaucracy or restrictive interpretation of the rules, but to decide in favour of democracy. And in the interest of democracy, it is only possible to put even the issue to a vote before the National Assembly or to have two committees if the coalition and the opposition cannot agree on it. The President of the National Assembly has decided his way. He decided that, for the first time, he would not include our request on the agenda of the 11th meeting, and for the second time that he would not allow the vote to extend the agenda. That is why what happened to myself - I speak in person - at least I wanted to: that an administrative action has now been brought, for the first time in history, against the President of the National Assembly. And that's not good for our reputation. Surely this is not good for our reputation, which is already on our broken feet. It is already thought that the majority of the cake has been taken by the executive authority, and we are the on-call guilty, along with the judiciary, for all the other problems. But if the opposition has no other option, then this is an emergency exit. If the National Assembly had legitimately decided that our requests, the demands of opposition Members and Members, would not have been satisfactory, of course we would have had a legal remedy in an administrative dispute and that this decision could be challenged, i.e. against the National Assembly, not "ad personam" against the President, and that is not personal either. Because the President is the supreme authority or man who represents our state. As we look at the content of the coalition's request, we can see that this is actually a backward investigation. And allow me to recall Dr. Anton Trstenjak, mentioned on the show yesterday morning by European Member Peterle. I agree with him that he was a great man and I respect him very much, unlike my colleague Peterlet, I personally did not have the privilege of knowing him. Why am I mentioning him? Dr. Trstenjak wrote for me one of the most remarkable definitions of man that man is the being of the present from the past to the future." And you know, if you applied his definition to this commission of inquiry that you're proposing, you could see that it's a new government, a government of the present, and almost exclusively for the past. And if we look at the reforms that bring us back to the past in one way or another, then that definition is so much more true. Therefore, dear colleagues, I will not be surprised, but I will be deeply hurt and offended. Last but not least, there are nine lawyers and lawyers sitting between us in the National Assembly. A small number, but there are nine of us, but we cannot agree on such delicate and sensitive and important issues as investigative commissions such as constitutional changes and could still be listed. So I won't be surprised if one day we get on the table your proposal to simply abolish it erases Article 2 of the Constitution. Article 2 of the Constitution states that the Republic of Slovenia is a legal and social state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much. This issue we are talking about is probably a number of different postures. One such is also the holding of a mild retreat, perhaps in a buffet or somewhere else, but this posture may not be the one that would lead to any clever result. That's why it's not right for someone to step away from it. It would be wise for all those who cooperate in this way to try to give these assumptions a hectic debate, to the extent that sobriety and judgment can be given. For me, it is not a question of whether the Commission should be or whether the Commission should not be. I think it's right to investigate what's worth investigating. What may be more problematic is what will be the difference in the specificity of what will be done, what will be taken into account, what goals and ambitions will be followed, and what will ultimately be the effects of everything that will be invested, I suppose, much work and effort. We will try to cooperate in this sober, in a reasonable way, but not in a way that we could call a way of accounting. It's probably better if we do this so that we don't measure it, I'd say, just the opposite, but that we measure the problem just so that we figure out what's true, what's not true and what needs to be done, that it's not going to happen anymore. Because it's probably going to be very hard to fix. What happened was convenient. Indeed, I also agree that the Commission will deal more with the things that have happened and that it is not its ambition to prevent this from happening again. Whether this is the case or not will depend on the atmosphere in which it will take place. Today’s way, therefore, we have heard with what words and with what arguments we have made in the introduction, is probably not the best way to travel. I would say that there were a lot of biting words, that there were a lot of those that might not have been more of a decent taste, that there were a lot of things that we could say as if we already knew everything. In fact, this process, which is actually just beginning, is becoming meaningless and unnecessary at the very beginning. That's how I understand, and I'm sorry that this is, including written reasoning, an explanation for the material that we're discussing today. It will be very important whether this Commission will be able to obtain appropriate rational, unsettled expert groups that would be able to assess this on a professional basis, as the Commission alone cannot monitor more than political conclusions on this issue. I hope he doesn't have any other ambitions. In fact, the point is that we will deal with something that is not only happened, but it also had its own, so I think, its blessing, any case will probably be somewhat burdened, because it would be really unusual for those closest to the sources of information, and also those who have the levers of decisions close to their own hands, to know nothing about anything in fact and not to influence anything. I believe that everything will be more focused on the theatre, more on the media, more on trying with different arguments, let's just say to them, to get political public and voters and voters. However, I would like this to be as small as possible, so that things will be done soberly and that they will lead to the final results so that the people of our company, our political and other culture in the future will benefit at least from this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr. Davorin Terchón has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. I would first like to say why I imagine that the instrument of parliamentary investigation is the tool of the opposition. An act that we do not even confirm today is brought to our attention because we have an arrangement that, when the conditions are met, the establishment of an investigative commission is self-evident and automatic, so I also think, Mr President-respected, that you do not act properly when you do not also allow the establishment of a commission that would investigate only the background of the Mercator. The Act refers to the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry to establish political responsibility. And now I wonder what political responsibility this investigative commission will determine. Of course, you are in the ruling coalition, I agree, you are still looking back and obviously we would like to find out what was wrong with this act in the first place. But the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, especially in this case also the highest government representatives, is, in my opinion, double. One manifests itself before voters in elections and the other manifests itself in Parliament before parliament. Both have political consequences, not criminal consequences, because if not, it was not an act of political responsibility. The political consequences, we all know. And the loss of power. The elections took place, the ruling coalition by 2004 highlighted and politically responded, also because you have been repeating and reporting cases in public for years and years that have been weighty or unweighted and, according to my modest assessment, they have certainly not taken away what you have achieved in one year compared to the 12-year rule of the LDS, to do as a ruling coalition. The second is a political responsibility to Parliament. And this is the subject of such an investigative commission, of course, it can also be in front of voters. But what political responsibility will you place after this commission of inquiry has done its work? The former government is no longer able to respond politically. What are you up to? To silence or wipe out members of the opposition from parliament? What political responsibility can you even stress? None. That's why this commission of inquiry can't do anything, except, of course, that it's already heating milk water, it's creating smoke, in the end, of all things, there'll be nothing. You will discuss yourself on this investigative committee, obviously, without representatives of the opposition, we can also say positions, we will see further what will happen. But why? You have in your hands all the instruments to point out the irregularities, to file any criminal charges, and you cannot expose political responsibilities, because the situation is such, there can now be no more, except, of course, the Mercator players, but perhaps some other current cases. It all aims to make the matter completely blurry, sweep under the carpet and create an impression in public, all are a little guilty, one more, the other less, preferably more sooner, in accordance with your way of action than you are now. Even though, as I say, it went into one operation alone, and I don't have any arrows here, I'd say, on Istrabenz or on Lashka Brewery, where they made a very good deal of business in my opinion. But it is a question of how many top political actors have assisted in this and how many taxpayers, citizens of this country, have been harmed. And this number is very large. Doubt is very large. It is quite clear that you cannot determine political responsibility because you have no one. From the opposition, unless you're trying to silence her. The opposition does not have instruments of political power in its hands. But you have everything and all the data through the SOD, through the KAD, through all the institutions that are indirectly owned through the state, you have all the data. You can "pull them out," you can press charges, and this is the end of the matter. But you can't claim political responsibility at all. That is why this is absurd, Mr President-respected, and I think that we should act in such a way that it would be self-evident to set up, when the conditions are met, in particular this opposition commission. Although I legally do not deny that it is possible to set up this parliamentary commission of inquiry, which will obviously be established, but will have nothing to say, in particular it will not be able to establish some political responsibility, because it has no political consequences because it cannot have them. In the end, I'd say I'm kind of grateful to you. The more you try to hide, put it under the carpet, and the more time it heats up there, the more once it blows up a day. History teaches us that with all things so - the more he hides them, the more he hides them, the more he tries to cloud them, the more they get hit one day. And I'm sure that's how it's gonna be in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mag. Franz Capuder has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is also known and documented that a large number of sales of Kad and Soda took place without public publication for the sale of the share. In many cases, however, the price should be determined internally by those responsible in Kadu or the Court, without any independent professional external analysis or based on the current stock price on the stock exchange. Let me just introduce a small segment of these transactions. From the review of publicly available information on transactions carried out by the Court for the period from 1.7.2002 to 31.8.2005 - it is said that those data are publicly available - it is clear that of the 20 such data available in 2005, it has been said that in the last year since we have authority, as it is said, these transactions were executed 5, one immediately in early 2005. Of these 20 were 7, that is 35% of all sold directly and only 2 by public bidding. Let me just mention some of these sales: DZS d.d. From Ljubljana, it was sold or sold to the Court in 2002 for 7.36% and sold for about 622 million; Dana d.d. From Mirna was sold in 2003, the share of the Soda was 10% and sold for 85 million SIT; Terme 3000, in which the Court had 6.47% share, were sold for 520 million in 2004; and the last of these sales I will present is Kolinska d.d. from Ljubljana, where the share of the Soda was 10.6% and was sold for 2.2 billion tolars at the beginning of this year, when Mr Pogačnik was not yet President of the Soda. What also bothers is that the vast majority of these sales were valued only on an internal level. Sales only Kolinske d.d. it had an external valuation of the investment and the sale was realised, as I mentioned earlier, directly, without the collection of tenders. Thus, in almost three years, there were only two of them, on the basis of available data, where the collection of tenders was public. Once again, I must mention that all this data was obtained on the basis of those which are publicly available. What are the secret treaties hiding, but of course we don't know. Therefore, I think it is in the interest of Slovenian taxpayers to determine whether the funds have acted economically, transparently and in accordance with the applicable legislation when selling shares in companies. For this reason, I have also signed a request for the establishment of a commission to examine these sales in detail and to assess the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions in damaging state property. I think that there is also a request on this committee or in a proposal where the opposition's members' content is also included in order to investigate the damage to public property or public property in the Mercator case. It does not seem logical to me that one and the same matter should be discussed and investigated by two separate committees, at the same time of course. However, as far as running this commission is concerned, I believe that the Commission should be led by those who have been alerted to irregularities that have already been reported in the past. The vast majority of cases of sales are from the period of the former ruling coalition, the current major part of the opposition, and I therefore support the appointment of this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Capudre. Mr. Aurelio Yuri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the proposers, colleague Tanko listed so many alleged crimes and irregularities, the authorities of past mandates, and blamed the Social Democrats as well. As it would have already been established and proven, or as it would have read the report of the commission of inquiry, which it is proposing, at the end of a long, thorough and successful investigation. So the next step is to follow his logic very easily. Call on the Attorney General and charge her with forming an indictment against the holders of public powers that would have committed all of the above. It remains questionable, however, that, colleagues and coalition colleagues, that your suspicions and your accusations, you have not tried to prove with appropriate investigations, here in the National Assembly, when the time was more appropriate. So at a time when alleged crimes were committed. At a time when witnesses and evidence were still fresh. And here I don't understand why, in all these years, this kind of initiative hasn't come to light, given that you're revealing how many of these things you know today. It's only now that you've remembered this mission of yours. So on the day when we learned from the opposition types of the public that we would like to exercise the same right and duty in order to investigate a specific transaction of billions of public tolars, which is at least to us, not just to us, but also to the many people who are closer to you, who are breathing through inappropriate and harmful especially to taxpayers and taxpayers. It's never too late, so you continue with your committee. Allow the opposition, however, to design it in the same way as she imagined, which would deal with or investigate that particular transaction. I am personally most interested in this, but I do not want to underestimate, of course, all the accusations you have made here. All of this can hold, or part of it, you will, of course, prove it eventually. But I'm particularly interested in this KAD and SOD transaction about Mercator shares, of course. Why do I want to know? Because it's fresh, it's easier to prove, with time and memory, it's not infected enough. With the commission proposed by your colleagues and colleagues from the coalition and the ban on President Tsukjati to form another commission, as we would like in the opposition, you are making such an investigation impossible for us. So your work and your company is just, as someone has already said, a roll of fog or I would say a very smokey, very dense smoke screen that is supposed to cover up, and if only it could be buried forever what I'm most interested in right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you very, very much. When I listened to the views of the LDS and SD representatives, among other things, it was said that the LDS leader is actually in the way of today's introduction to the head of the parliamentary group, and the SD even stated that he felt that he was already listening to the Commission's report. Why such an introduction to the leader of SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups? I myself believe that it is right that today, too, some things or concerns about the sale of state property have occurred in the past period. And given what was reported to us in Mercator's sale at the expense of the sale of the shares of the SOD and the KAD, it is true that today, too, concerns about the sale of state assets have also been raised in the past period. Look, I think if we're already at Mercator's, because, in fact, Mercator has always been mentioned in the press for the last two, three months. Only Mercator, the sale shares, Jankovic's suspension is being discussed in the last period. And that's why it's right that it was actually such an introduction today. Speaking of Mercator, I would like to say that I, too, believe that not everything is as brilliant as the opposition at first sight hears it. I just want to know how it's gonna be in two, three years. It is true that we have even received this information today, and I believe that revenue has increased by 26.5% and profits by 47% under the auspices of the President of the administration, Mr Jankovic. I want to know what these results will be in two, three years. I have a feeling that some or you don't want to know whether you're misdiagnosed as to what is the difference between a trade activity or a production activity. Being a good manager in this sector, such as former Prime Minister Jankovic, cannot be compared, at least as I judge, to be the manager in another production of activities on the Slovenian market, which is constantly fighting for existence, not on our market, on the world market. Therefore, the magnification of the former President in, under the terms of "little god", I think it is incorrect and would only mention that I would sincerely congratulate one manager who would take over responsible work in the Rogaška Slatina glass room and congratulate him sincerely in two years' time if I were able to bring the situation to a green branch. I firmly believe that if I am already at the Glass Rogaška Slatina, it is precisely the result of managers, as it is in Mercator, who will also take care of their pocket, that this was the result of today's minus 23 billion, how you can accumulate in a few years for an economic society or how you can build an economic society that is so long. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, it is right, and I myself support the establishment of a commission to review the sale of property in Mercator, as well as the sale of state assets in the past years in all other companies, in particular those companies, as already mentioned several times today. To conclude, I hope, today was heard here by a fellow Member, I don't know who already mentioned it, but the word was said that we had outsmarted someone. I hope, given that this is indeed a Serbian word, but in the sense it is a fundamental difference from the Slovenian word, which seems to be too subtle, one and the other actually means fraud. I don't think he meant it literally, as they used it in the past, but perhaps today, Serbs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u44	I would kindly ask the President if you remind Members and Members of the ruling coalition that we are not talking about individuals, but we are talking about the political responsibility of the holders of public functions who have done something. And I very much ask that, as President of the National Assembly, you ensure that Members of the ruling coalition, particularly Members of the ruling coalition who do not respect this, so I suggest that you warn them now. That's what I'm basing it on. There is talk here about someone or some who, I would say, have been more or less successful in so-called trade activities, without being properly argued, is profaning their names. I would fully agree, Mr Mikolič, that it would be good for us to talk here also about the glassworks Rogaška Slatina, absolutely. And I would suggest that in the last year of the meeting on 12 August, the government, which is already one government, should be with the Prime Minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u45	Mr Squeakl, I will take your request into account as a procedural question, and I would like to end this debate further. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u46	It is absolutely necessary to discuss this, but then, of course, we no longer discuss the content and the whole issue today is whether or not the holders of the political functions that, instead of dealing with the problems in Rogaška Glass, will deal with the businesses with which they damaged the state property whenever they come to this National Assembly. And in that sense, I agree with you. It's a scam. This is a fraud that prevents 30 Members from considering at any time the political responsibility of holders of public functions in the current authorities. And that's the content of this discussion. Thank you for taking this warning further.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u48	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Honourable Fellows! The purpose of this Commission of Inquiry is to determine whether the sale of Kad and Sod shares in companies was made by sales which were uneconomic, non-transparent and contrary to the applicable legislation. In the event that the funds operate or have acted improperly on the assets of the companies, they will not be able to settle all their legal obligations and the difference will have to be covered by taxpayers; the amounts can go to billions of Slovenian tolars. In general, since the first sales of State shares made by Kad and the Court of Justice, there have been indications that the majority of sales made were agreed, without a public offer, without an appropriate appreciation of the shares and even at a price lower than the current market price. Thus, Kad, led by a member of the LDS, Mr Lenič, sold 41 major companies from 2000 to the end of 2004, of which 28, they raised bids for 9 sales and sold only 4 shares via the stock exchange or through public invitations. Valuation or determination of the value of these shares is important for these sales. According to publicly available data, in the course of the previous government, Kad had ordered valuations from external authorised operators only in 5 cases, in 33 cases they had made their own valuation of the value of the shares and the shares of 3 companies were to be sold without a price, so the value was simply agreed. It is of particular concern that Kad sold 5 shares in larger companies at a price below the market price. These were the following companies: CM Celje, BTC, Color Medvode, Intertrade, ITS and Gruda Ljubljana. As a result of the unprofitable and imprudent negotiated sales made during the previous government, the profits of Kad and Sod, which have been poured into the state budget, have been significantly understated, especially if we look at the size of the funds. I would also like to mention the sale of shares in the Dolenska Bank and the Delo newspaper. In the case of Dolenjska banka When the valuation of the value of the share has not been carried out at all. This share was sold to Nova Ljubljanska Banka at an agreed price. Following the accession of the Dolenjska Banka NLB, Kad received shares in NLB. Whether this caused damage to the taxpayers, we will never know because the value was simply agreed upon. In particular, there is a lack of or a lack of information on this sale in Kadu. The sale of the state stake in the Delo newspaper was very receptive, which was made overnight and just before the change of government in 2000. In the LDS leadership, they did not even hide that Kad sold the share in order to prevent the then government led by Andrej Bayuk from selling the state share in Del to any other partner. The LDS and the then United List wanted to keep their influence in the maximum - load magazine. Mr Jože Lenič, a member of the LDS and then Head of the KAD, at that time even allowed himself to disobey the KAD Assembly, although at the first meeting following the spring change of power, decided that he would have to empower Dr Gregor Gomilšk, then president of the Assembly, as chairman of the board of directors for participation in the assembly of the newspaper company. Joze Lenic did not respect this conclusion. He sold some of the shares that KAD had in the company of Delo. Jože Lenič was also a member of the supervisory board of the newspaper house Delo. The fact that he was involved in the imprudent sale and the LDS itself, also suggests that Anton Rop only two hours after the signing of the contract between the Laška Brewery and the former Director of SOD Anton Končnik solved the latter. This is only because the former director of SOD Anton Končnik sold the share of the Union brewery to the Slovenian company Pivovarna Laško, not to the foreign company Interbrew, as the current LDS summit, Anton Rop, apparently wanted. The Supreme Court later found that the signed contract was legal, that the costs of unduly opened proceedings burdened all Slovenian taxpayers. It was neither necessary nor right for policy intervention to be detected at that time, and it would be appropriate for those costs to be settled by the political actors at that time. It would also be extremely interesting to know why the Court of Auditors has never conducted a review of the business and economic performance of the sale of the state share of KAD and SOD throughout the previous government. Of course, I also have to mention the Mercator case. The opposition screams and screams that the sale was untransparent and that the price was far too low. Due to the low price of the share and the fact that this share was to be sold on loan under poor terms, there was a loss of 37 to 39 billion Slovenian tolars. First of all, I must point out that the valuation or valuation of Mercator’s business system for the purpose of recapitalisation, which has set a fair price for Mercator’s share of SIT 38.000, by which KAD and SOD also sold their shares. Next. If the taxpayers have lost so much as the opposition has shouted, because of the low price, they should be harmed by SIT 30 billion, then this should be known at the Lashko and Istrabenz Brewery Stock Exchange. What the taxpayers are supposed to lose is at least a little by the owners of the Lashko and Istrabenz brewery. However, if we look at the price of the shares of both companies on August 31st, when the news of the sale was first published, to date, we see that both shares did not win, but even lost the price. It is clear that the owners of the shares that are undoubtedly the most capable of assessing whether the business was good or not estimate that Mercator’s sale price for KAD and SOD was good and correct and that the taxpayers did not even lose, as the opposition deceives. Between 37 billion and 39 billion damages, according to the opposition, would fall under the poor lending conditions that the CAD and the SOD have concluded with the buyers. According to the information published by the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, the buyer of the shares will buy and pay for them in four instalments. In doing so, prices on the day of payment will be equal to the agreed price increased by EURIBOR plus 70 basis points minus dividend. Thus, KAD and the SOD transferred Mercator’s share price risk to the buyers because they sold them at a fixed price, and Mercator’s share price may also fall. At the same time, Mercator's dividends will be received before the purchase is settled, and hence the recognition of the discount. From the point of view of KAD and SOD, it is therefore an investment, the risk of which is the credit risk of both buyers. This risk is offset by a gradual EURIBOR plus 70 basis points. It is obvious that this is a rather common contract for Mercator's shares. A whole bunch of similar future contracts are concluded on global markets every day. For example, in Frankfurt you can buy a future contract for a tax index, which will make you commit to purchase a tax index in June 2006 at today’s price. It is increased only for EURIBOR minus dividends. Therefore, the conditions laid down for the loan contract are perfectly correct and for the CAD and the SOD or are good for taxpayers. Here, too, it turns out that alleging the opposition is complete deception and pure demagogy. It is known that during the transition that took place under the rule of the LDS and the United List of Social Democrats, a number of individuals have been enriched immeasurably. To this day, I do not know that any of them would be able to explain convincingly from such an immeasurable wealth. An example of such an individual is the former director of Mercator, who was put in this position by Anton Rop, who also publicly praised Mr Rop. In eight years, the President of the Mercator administration, who was placed in this position by Mr Rob of LDS, acquired assets worth more than four billion tolars. It should be added immediately that this is a majority accounting valuation of assets and that the market value of assets is significantly higher, that the list of assets appearing in the media is unlikely to cover all its assets and that the assets of its sons should be added to that property. Mr Jankovic spent many years working for the Mercator's manager's purchase and never gave the impression that buying 25 percent or more of the stake would cause him any financial bulwarks. There are also no financial obstacles to providing 12.2 billion for Mercator's recapitalisation, nor do they have leaders in this society, with a gentleman at the head. Given that Mercator’s 25 % share of 38 000 sieves per share would amount to a good 30 billion Slovenian tolars, I can therefore conclude that the assets of the said gentleman and sons amount to at least that much. Where did the gentleman I'm talking about get so much wealth? True, as director of Mercator, he had a nice salary, but two million a month, as much as he was supposed to receive, is not enough in his dreams to get that kind of wealth. Also, eight years ago, he pawned his property and bought Mercator’s shares for his money, as he claims, far from explaining his immeasurable wealth. It is known that this has also been publicly acknowledged by the said gentleman that he and his sons have done extensive business with Mercator. Of course, it's an obvious conflict of interest. And at least what I can say is that this is completely contrary to morals and good business practices. It is clear that no father can objectively judge the business offers of his sons and himself against the offers of other business partners. It is clear, however, that in addition to direct transactions with Mercator, the said gentleman used his position and dealt with Mercator's suppliers of goods and services or blackmailed his suppliers to deal with the businesses of the family I speak of, otherwise dealing with Mercator would never again be obtained. This brings us closer to the answers, although I am sure that there will be some other indiscretion, from where Mr Jankovic, who was appointed director of Mercator's post by Mr Rop or LDS, his immense wealth. The average net salary is around 150 Slovenian thousand, which is a very good salary for many workers. And if we compare this to the wealth possessed by the said gentleman and acquired it in eight years, a worker would need a good 2,000 years or two years to do so. Therefore, Slovenian taxpayers would deserve an answer to the question of where the gentleman is so immensely rich and who helped him to do so. Slovenians and Slovenians, and most trades that receive about 80,000 or 90,000 net wages a month, have every reason to become bitter in front of the cameras when the gentleman is replaced, not out of compassion for such a rich man, but out of the happiness of preventing such individuals from further enriching themselves at the expense of the poor employees of the shops and the defrauded suppliers. If such a man is a hero, then this is where it all ends. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I am convinced that the decision is perfectly correct, that the Commission of Inquiry will be set up as soon as possible and will review all disputed sales of state property and will inform the Slovenian public and, of course, the authorities which will take appropriate action in the event of damage to state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Aurelio Yuri, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you, Vice President. I'd just like to point out once again what my colleague, Squeakle, has pointed out. The point does not excuse this kind of debate when we go "ad personam" to people who are not holders of public authority. That is why I would like to ask you, Mr Vice-President, to remind the debaters of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u52	President, thank you so much for your word. I thought I'd start with these things myself. We need to know that we live in a market economy, that after some people who have been marketed for life, they call themselves streets. And you certainly didn't just come from your salary to the property they have. Onassis, a great shipowner, too, did not just come to this property with his salary. And that's what some people today think of as the rest of socialism. But when we went our separate ways, we were defined as another social system. And I find it completely unjustifiable to label people here and unjustly condemn them in the National Assembly. It seems to me, Mr Vice-President, that you are yourself and the leadership of the National Assembly in a very simple way that damages your reputation and your credibility. No wonder we're so low on public opinion polls about how much people trust us. As an introduction to this, for example, I would state only the electoral promises of public broadcasts from the National Assembly, the appreciation of television, and what we have promised, the abolition of privileges, the law on Members and Mayors, in order to make this compatible, because a Member gets his salary even as President of 40 and a half county, does not necessarily lead to people trusting us. And third thing, if I've abused a little bit here, about corruption. Corruption was the leading theme of this National Assembly in its previous term. We have paid our price and the customers who are now leading, especially the largest party and Nova Slovenija are the ones who have gained voter confidence. They have, if you look at it today or tomorrow, the headlines in the newspapers, the whole apparatus, so that what they said could be investigated, so taxpayers pay them. They got the D.A., they got the police, they got the courts. And if we're living in a state of law and order, and if they said that before, we should prove these things. But, Madam Members, is this how we do it in the National Assembly? This coalition is now doing exactly the opposite of what it was saying before the elections. As an example to detect as little corruption as possible, it was also the law to abolish an independent commission to detect corruption. If it's not a first-class farce, then I don't know what it is either. As far as the detection of corruption is concerned, the Commission of Inquiry is certainly also of great use. And we're talking about these in the National Assembly today. The Commission of Inquiry is a political instrument given both to the position and to the opposition. I do not object to you anywhere, and I am very pleased if we have had in our ranks the "robbers" who have incited corruption, that you, with your commission of inquiry, discover them and politically impale them on the cross. Nothing. To speak, however, in this case, where the political procedure is being misused, including the establishment of these commissions, that the position of the commission should be in the hands of the members of the opposition, which is thus investigating the actions of members of the opposition as well as of the positions, is distasteful, however, respected colleagues. Why? Before we reached this meeting, the leadership of the National Assembly should do its utmost to try to ensure the reputation of the National Assembly. It seems to me that the National Party's proposal, which has left this National Assembly indignantly, that it was not possible to reach at least one meeting in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to agree on what will be the subject of an investigation by one investigative commission and what will be the subject of an investigation by another investigative commission, seems to me to be a kind of rape by setting up only one investigative commission. It would seem wise to me, as a mathematician, to know that polynomial is not a transcendent function and that logarithmic function is a transcendent function and that the characteristics are that these two are incompatible. And it also seems to me that it is incompatible that an investigative commission led by the position is investigating both the actions of opposition policies and the opposition. It seems to me that it would be wise and good for the position to have its commission for the past and for me to have its committee for the moment when you have taken all the reins into your hands. I think that this would be a fair play, so, respected colleagues and colleagues, by what will happen today, we tell the public that we are playing a football game with only one team playing on their own and on the opposite goal. I think that this matter is inadequacy and that we, as Members, including the leadership of the National Assembly, can be ashamed that we have not achieved that the action of the Commissions of Inquiry would be transparent and public enough to obtain some results, otherwise we will have another investigative commission which will be again in a series of investigative committees of paper tigers. Since you've made this impossible for us, we can go back to looking for cases. We thought the law enforcement authorities were out to investigate the past. You've dealt with the past. We haven't done the past, but we've done the present. And that's the point of this commission. Then we will have no choice but to go into the past, but to look at the well-respected colleagues and colleagues who received the commission at Enron, what were the deals at the time, during the reign of Mr Andre Bajuk. Will this bring something to this country, this digging in the past? I don't know. But if you start a war like this, we will do our best, and we will try to set up an investigative commission, so that this space will be politically balanced. And one more thing I would say is that the President of the National Assembly certainly acted legally according to his conscience, which he also confirmed yesterday - but we think he is not - and I have nothing to report to him here. However, I think that the President of the National Assembly acted very unilaterally to act unwisely for the welfare of the Republic of Slovenia. That's why I'm giving him the thought when he comes across such problems again, the thought: "Everyone knew the problem was insurmountable, and then someone who didn't know it came along and solved the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I would like to say, in the previous comments of the two Members, that we should direct our debate only on the act of setting up a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions and so on, but that we would really stick to this topic. Mr. Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have reserved seven hours, perhaps a little less so that the national assembly or its ruling majority will let the fog go to something that is crystal clear and which is something that the majority of the speakers of the ruling coalition, when they represent this act, cannot cover. And that is that today you are setting up a government non-parliamentary commission to prevent and prevent an investigation into Mercator's sale. If you were to be privatised in the time of the previous government, as has been pointed out, such commissions would certainly have been set up before you were in the opposition, and would certainly have investigated everything you could have investigated, but you have not done so. Like some others in this room, I cannot avoid the impression that even today my respected colleagues and colleagues in the coalition are acting and acting as opposition, even though you have all the levers of political power and power and a sufficient number of hands and fingers. If anti-corruption rhetoric was understandable at the time you were still in the opposition, but of course unreasonable, this rhetoric is ridiculous and tragic today when you are in the government. Tragic because you're protecting a silent, fertile neo-corporative state and an agreed economy. Customerism violators in scale, as we have never known before, when the reality of what is happening today in the informal relationship between the economy and politics far exceeds your former opposition's worst imagination. When on RTV, it is no longer possible to face an MP or minister of this government and someone from the opposition on state television. When, like yesterday, they first present in the video of Mr Portec and Mrs Lavtizar Beblereva and then the President of the National Assembly, not that she is there, answering and rejecting their findings. Okay, well, I also have to admit to Mr Cuckati, because yesterday he wasn't too aggressive and too vindictive, so at least this. But it's not a method, it's happening today, and it's also an integral part of what you're protecting and what part you are today. Once again, as I have always been and again, there are people in the strategic world who will at the same time advise on how to privatise the work of state assets in the KAD and the SOD to the Prime Minister and at the same time participate in the privatisation process. This is something that is completely unimaginable, and, as has been said today, I have not listened to all the debate, my colleague and my colleague, whether you can imagine an investigative committee in which Mr Tanko or Mr Jerovšek, because he always listens to me so enthusiastically, for which, Mr Jerovšek, I thank him, or when Mr Jerovšek is fearlessly questioning Prime Minister Janez Janša, this is under the weight of unpleasant questions. You can't imagine that. And you're right, you don't have to imagine, because that's not gonna happen either. Any subsecretary of the subsecretariat for subsecretarial matters of sub-privatisation will be investigated and interrogated. And this is what you're going to draw here, and this is going to explain to you how good this thing was going on and how it didn't happen on August 12th. In fact, August 12th, as a date, there is no such thing as a date. It's not August 12th, it's August 11th, it's August 13th, there's no August 12th. I apologize to those who had a birthday, but they should celebrate another day. Some speakers pointed out the fragility of the President of the National Assembly's argument that there could not be two committees because no one could be tried twice for the same thing. It's not about the trial, it's clear to each of us. It is a matter of identifying the political responsibilities of public function holders. And this responsibility will not be identified for these same public function holders, not for the first time and not for the last time. And this commission, of course, will not be the only source of such responsibility. And, of course, in the end, this political responsibility, as my colleague Terchoon has mentioned several times, will be judged by the voters. Today, of course, you will not only set up an investigative commission, but today you will primarily prevent the establishment of a normal, normal investigative commission, which should be led and set up by the opposition. However, do not cultivate the hope that the Mercator case is closed. If we cannot do this on a normal parliamentary committee, if we do not have the opportunity to use the instruments of the parliamentary commission, Mercator and I will continue to deal with any other means in any way that is legal and legal, we will want and we will come to the truth about this sale. And Mercator, Mercator's story continues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Since my colleague Gantar has commended me so carefully, I must say that I am listening to him very carefully and, of course, I am surprised when I listen to him. I wonder what reincarnation of what of Paul Gantar's predecessor occurred in his person after the elections, for apparently two different persons are performing. One that I knew as Minister of LDS and one that appears to be a member of the LDS. Now I don't know which faction it belongs to, but it doesn't matter that much. And in fact, I am always, and I will be happy to hear or monitor irregularities. At the same time, of course, I know that in the area of KAD and SOD, in the past, under the Prime Minister, where Mr Gantar was Minister, there have been extremely severe financial frauds. Billions and billions of money for the best companies have gone this way. Billions and billions, and I don't remember my colleague Gantar ever protesting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u57	Mr. Jerovšek, it's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u58	Yeah, replica, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u59	You'll have a debate in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u60	I don't remember ever protesting that his government was so politically incurring that Ambassador Lenič, a graduate teacher, sent a teacher to Kad that even Minister Copač was allowed to appoint the director of the Capital Society for a period of time because he was waiting because he wasn't sure about the outcome of the elections. Comrade Gantar, as minister of the then government, did not protest. Apparently, he was familiar with all the serious financial frauds that took place at the time. And now, today, a colleague of Gantar's is a connoisseur and he's saying that he thinks of me as an interrogator. Really! In case I do, I'll go in line with the size of the financial malfeasances. I know the worst things happened in the time of your governments, far from the worst! Billions, tops! A few thousand apartments could be more in Slovenia. Taxpayers would not pay this strong tax, denationalising beneficiaries could receive their own funds back. Yeah, I was wondering if you'd be such an interrogator. No, you're saying you're going to get expelled, you don't want to cooperate, because you know where the core of the problem will be, where the worst money has gone. And I'm begging you to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u61	The replica is complete, Mr Jerovšek, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u62	Face the situation. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica, Dr. Gantar. Mr. Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. In view of the debate so far, I see that, unfortunately, pears and apples have started to mix and the debate has moved away from the point that you have warned yourself before to stick to it, i.e. the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. With this political responsibility, I am primarily presenting myself with economic responsibility or the economic consequences of this political responsibility. The Commission itself, as it is proposed and set up, which we are discussing, is organised in such a way that it is given such work that we can truly imagine it as sand in the eyes or mixing fog. However, the fact of too much is repeatedly exposed to how many of these different cases the Commission has to investigate, which shows that the work will not be done and even less so that it will be done in the manner that the successful and properly appointed Parliamentary Commission is decent. Since I started with economic responsibility, I will touch on this point one of the initiators who has disputed the extent to which the damage is done, whether it is so many apartments or whether it is a different number, whether large or small, and I will point out that, once he has delimited, he automatically acknowledges that the damage has been done, is done and, of course, this commission must investigate this damage. However, according to the proposed timing, it will not be among the first cases, but only once towards the end, after local elections, because they know that the Mercator survey would be harmful to them, because if we look at the number of cases, we can see that in this particular case the damage is significantly higher than in many previous ones, since it is one fifth of the value of total sales of KAD and SOD. And that's the point. Not to deal with small cases, not to look for small things, but where the most money was turned on one side and on the other side, where that responsibility and damage were the greatest. This should be given priority, not to some other indicators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much again. Your Honor! Let me express my satisfaction that the debate on the commissions of inquiry, as is the case today, has come on the agenda. Such a debate has already revealed and exposed, in fact, the hypocrisy of the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats with regard to the search for irregularities in financial frauds of economic crime, which, at the time of their governments, has taken a rich and very intense root in Slovenian society. The fact is that corruption is also the worst cancer of Slovenian society and has grown incredibly during the reign of these two parties and the absolute political power that you had in the media, which you had to protect from the fear of capital owners, from political power. And look, all this current shouting of yours, the opposition to research comes out of fear. It stems from the fear that, of course, a dance will be removed from the activities of the Capital Society, the SOD, the Slovenian Indemnity Society, during the Prime Minister's time, perhaps back. At a time when they were so politically recruited that you sent from this Parliament to the Capital Society of Mr Lenič that this policy would have an exclusive impact on whom to give certain things. In which pocket will flow billions generated by non-market share sales. You are well aware of this; you are well aware of the extent of financial fraud. I would like to point out this again, and it is also clear that, at some point in time, even former Minister Kopač was appointed the director of the Capital Society, then he did not sit in the seat because he turned to him so that he could privatise, work in the field of energy, that he had better financial leverage. Imagine that the current government would afford to use political resources in these institutions. What kind of hall would you run around here and in the media? I am pleased that the media now feel significantly more autonomous after the adoption of the RTV Act, that they are citing all your claims, all your lies about this, because we, too, in the previous mandate, have warned about the strong billions passing through the state budget, across the country, but because of fear the journalists did not hope to publish our statements. Now you're being presented richly. Every press conference of yours is covered and I am glad that you have such an approach that then Slovenian taxpayers can draw some sort of middle. In the previous term, unfortunately, that was not the case. They were under pressure, not autonomous to the extent that they are now under this new one. I also need to touch all your strong cries about Mercator. Today, it has been shown in a transparent manner that it is certainly almost exclusively a demagogism, a populism, a cry, although I am very much in favour of Mercator being taken in the framework of this committee under the magnifying glass. That the packaging of these shares made possible by this government, the Robbery and the former, Mr Lenič and all those who signed the annexes to reveal and disclose what plans were behind, how to absolutely privatise social property, how to defraud and rob Slovenian taxpayers and Slovenian citizens, all of this will take place on a day-by-day basis within this commission. They made the President of the Mercator administration through the media of a national hero. I have to tell you, you have no moral right because you were defending corruption and moral corruption in the Matura affair when the graduation was purchased in connection with Mercator. At the time, you made up your mind, and at the time, Mercator's shares had already been deposited. You knew that the issue should not be investigated at that time, as this deposit of shares would then also be discovered. But I'm willing to do research. You also have no moral right and no moral mandate to speak negatively about investigative commissions. A colleague of Beblarov will recall how she was in charge with Mr Anderlic against the commission of inquiry for Vič-Homec, when your secretary-general of the government and the minister supported everything when he tried to bring Slovenian police officers to The Hague's war crimes tribunal. The investigative commission stopped it. You're well aware that you didn't have the strength to stop it. Even so, the public won. Consequences: Your Minister Bandelj had to step down. You also objected to the inquiry into Elan's case. Unfortunately, I have to say that you helped that the only person who came to court in Elan's case, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Puksic, that he was convicted of being the only one being punished and protected through the courts, through the influence of those who did not write at the right time of the judgment, that the real punishment had failed, that the charges filed by the commission of inquiry had been rejected by the prosecutors and you were protecting all of this. And I must also point out that Mr. Pučnik, the only additional of the investigative commissions, was in court, that the witness in the investigative court accused him of having accused this witness, who is now deceased, who has not had a good past, of helping him with the infuriation and diving of Mr. Pučnik. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u67	Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u68	This must be said, the Slovenian public must know this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u69	Can I just remind you of something? Walking on thin ice — [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u70	You know what they were saying. [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] But you didn't warn them. I'd ask you to leave me. [[..]] Please. We are talking about investigative commissions and we are talking about the history of investigative commissions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u71	We are talking about investigative commissions, but we are speaking as if they had already been established and we would have already said which of the holders of public functions is to blame.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u72	We're talking about the history of investigative commissions. Here in Parliament, Mrs Veliskova has locked the archive of the Commission of Inquiry. No one, not scientists, was allowed to investigate the witnesses, but when the Colonel was in court, they could all come and pick it up. I'm sure Mr. Pučnik's only death, very early, has resolved to condemn him to the courts, such as they are now. As well as intensely defending genocide and having no moral injustice, you have also identified yourself in the case of genocide against the persecution of genocide in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u73	Excuse me, Mr. Jerovšek, please, stick to the subject. I have to stop this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u74	I'm going with Mercator. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u75	It is clear what is the point of the agenda, and please, we are talking about this and let's not get into other things.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u76	Mercator is part of the investigation, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u77	Please, Mercator.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u78	When we talk about Mercator, it is important to say to the Slovenian public that it is not true that this would be the case, it was a successful company, of course, largely at the expense of the destruction of the Slovenian agricultural and agricultural industries. However, for my ideas, the more successful managers in Tuš, who created 25% of the 15 square metres of trade, not the merchants of the court, as they were in Mercator all the time, the laws on their skin. I think the future is going to show, and you're very afraid of how private accounts, family companies, and capital and assets were being drained in Mercator as well. At the same time, your insincere, hypocritical attitude that you are in favour of getting the country out of the economy. You were very intent on leading the country's influence. You were intent on selling at low prices, non-market prices. We're going to expose this to the committee. We did not have enough votes in the previous term to set up this commission, we did not have them. You're lucky to have them now, you can have a new investigative commission and I understand your fear. [[...]] I understand your fear. And if I finish. In fact, this debate today is good for some other reason that it has proved that Mr Squeakl, as reported, should not have talked about it, because Mr Kacin, when he came from Butal, took a mandate to do so. There's been a lot of discovery, and it's blown up, and I think there's gonna be a lot more to come. And once again, I have always supported investigative commissions and I do not agree that they did not have an important place to move things. All of you have always claimed that they are unnecessary to achieve nothing, today you are the advocates of the investigative commissions. Thank God for your transformation. Thank God! However, why you have always opposed why you have prevented any adoption of the final report. If the final reports were adopted in the Elan case, elan would no longer be present without the Slovenian investigative committee. In the case of Vič-Holmec, some of you have prevented an investigation into weapons, why your Prime Ministers have been blocked. They knew that your wettest, the most and everywhere you played a negative role, but today you are making yourself high moralists, highly transparent people. I'm sorry, thank God it's cleared up once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Mr. Squeakle. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek mentioned me and, of course, I have to rephrase him briefly because obviously we understand differently the political democracy of this Slovenian space. Mr Jerovšek, the matter is simple. If you would really be in favour of supporting investigative commissions, then we would be allowed to set up an investigative commission, then your President of the National Assembly would not have carried out seven manoeuvres, then of course there would be two acts here today, an act on the parliamentary investigative commission on how Mr Janša caused 29 billion damages on 12 August and today foreign owners of the Bank Koper are registered in the Mercator stock book. Today he's listed in Mercator's stock book by the owner of the Bank of Koper, who we know is who he is. The problem, Mr Jerovšek, is that we do not object to the fact that the owner of Banka Koper is registered, we object to the fact that Slovenian taxpayers, as was the case with Lek, were not properly rewarded, as was the case with Pivovarna Laško and in a number of cases, so that we did not receive up to 29 billion premiums. And this is a gift which, of course, your Prime Minister, Mr Janša, gives to the Italian owners of the Bank of Koper. These are the facts. Madam Secretary of State said Mercator's problem was that foreign discount traders are coming. It's really funny, I agree it's funny, but that's what she was saying, you can look at the magnetogram, that's what she said. She claimed Lidl and Hofer were coming. Mercator couldn't. Mercator's got a "hurrah discount" and he's got something else. So, Mr Jerovšek, if you would really be for the investigative commissions, then of course you would have allowed the establishment of the Mercator investigative commission, just as we allow and do not oppose the establishment of this. It is only surprising that Mr Tanko, who has been a member of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances for four years, has not proposed a single case of damage to state property. And that's why I'm saying you're still in opposition. You're still in the opposition. You use supervisory councils, use assemblies and manage the country, and allow the opposition to investigate the damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. Time's up. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Although I would like to thank Mr Jerovsk for what he reminded me of how I acted and what I stood for when I was a member of the previous term. But I must say, Mr Jerovšek, that you have a much better memory than I do, you also have a much richer imagination and, after all, you also have a much more sense of humor, which of course I give you than a compliment. And there's something else I'd know. It's not true what you said about Mr. Lenic. Since he's not here, I think it's appropriate to say that when he became director of the Triglav Insurance Company, he was already an economist, already a magician. economic sciences. But that's not the kind of thing I want to talk about. In the first place, I intended to talk about the fact that, from a second point of view, I would highlight this situation, which occurred when the President of the National Assembly did not wish to put on the agenda of the 11th meeting the request of the 31 members to set up an investigative commission. I must say that the President of the National Assembly did not surprise us by such conduct, on the contrary, only we could wait to know how he would find out as a soldier of his party and of the current government coalition the manoeuvre needed to prevent the establishment of an investigative commission required by one third of the members who do come out of the opposition, but the constitution nevertheless defines it as mandatory. So that's the one the National Assembly has to set up. However, the President of the National Assembly in his own lenientness, recalling his reactions to the hate speech in this national assembly, i.e. his own lenientity for respect for human rights, has himself judged, which is not in the constitution, nor does he have any legal basis in the general legal system, nor does he have powers and powers. It states that it has weighed carefully and has given priority to respect for human rights over the constitutional provision on the compulsory determination of a parliamentary inquiry where one third of Members so require. In doing so, he relied on the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. These same legislative and legal services, whose opinion is that, in some cases, any provision of the proposed laws is contrary to or inconsistent with the Constitution. The ruling coalition, as well as the president of the National Assembly, are calm or even arrogantly despised and despised if I am more accurate. More than once, I have had the opportunity to witness the undisputed fear that has lingered in the ranks of members of the legislative and legal services of the National Assembly. I can see how embarrassed they are when they have to defend their warnings after the likely unconstitutionality of the proposed laws and what legal acrobatics they must sometimes use to avoid taking offense at their bosses. I therefore also understand this legal acrobatic of this service, which offered the President of the National Assembly, as a rescue plant, a reference to the principle of 'not bis and idem', without warning that this principle applies to criminal proceedings and that it refers to an accused who has been acquitted or convicted in criminal proceedings or who has already been acquitted or convicted in a similar criminal procedure, as referred to in Article 31 of the Constitution. By the way, the parliamentary investigation is not a criminal procedure either. However, Article 93 of the Constitution refers to the fact that, in matters of inquiry and examination, the parliamentary investigation has the same powers as the judicial authorities, but I stress, powers, not powers. Those who know about the law will also know how to tell the difference. However, the Law on Parliamentary Investigation in individual but explicitly stated cases determines the application of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. Therefore, in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, I see not only an ecclesiastical violation of the Constitution and a direct intent to prevent the opposition from exercising its constitutional role, but I also see its deliberate deception against the public, which is at least as serious a sin as the previous two. Parliamentary investigation - its purpose is to identify the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. When you refer to the principles of criminal law in this matter, or perhaps it also points to the use of crime to reintroduce political crimes into the criminal code. I hope it's just a game. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has a word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you very much, again. Mrs Beblereva has just presented what she once claimed to be an interpretation of the creative interpretation of the law. This time, too, she tried and interpreted law in the way of LDS. But I thank her for admitting that I had a better memory. Mrs Beblereva, you have a good memory, but you have one-sided deleted, and that is your problem. For even in your performance, in your statement on Mr Lenič's education, during the acquisition of the insurance company Triglav, there was obvious manipulation. I did not talk about his education at the time, although I do have a much better opinion about Mr Lenič as your Member, in fact than most who were sitting in your benches at the time. That is why I have to say once again that I am grateful for this debate, and I hope that the media will show it autonomously that they are no longer afraid. Also because Mr Cvikl has shown in this context that the Bank of Koper, which was sold to Italians, is for a rehabilitated company that has been rehabilitated through the country, it is said that the general voyage - that money has run out, millions and millions, hundreds of millions. You gave this to the principals in the first place. And now you see guilt and responsibility in this way! It's your national fault. And the Slovenian government has tried to prevent Mercator from fully agreeing in foreign hands. Mercator destroyed the Slovenian agricultural industry in his campaign. Mercator gave the farmer much less than foreign merchants. Although foreign merchants buy some crops cheaper, they give the farmer more and then they are cheaper on shelves. And such examples show as the highlight of management - yes, in some segment yes, but this is a very distorted picture of these managers and these national heroes. And I want you to say a few more such cases that the Slovenian public will see your way of performing, your role in all these transactions, about these huge financial frauds that took place during the time of your governments. Thousands and thousands of apartments would have been built more in Slovenia if there had not been such a government at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, please, a replica. I'm just asking you not to go any further in this direction, because otherwise the replica will be on the replica and you'll be talking all afternoon, and the rest of you will be listening. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u86	Very briefly. I am trying to answer Mr Jerovšek, because it is probably hopeless, but I suppose what you have said here reflects your thinking on how the Slovenian economy should work - let everything be decided in the national assembly and let it be decided in the national assembly which is the appropriate trader, or even in the government. Mr Jerovšek, it is simply that we create the conditions for the functioning of the economy. And by what you do, by doubting every transaction without doing it in the last four years when you were an opposition, Mr Jerovšek, you did not make a single request to the commission! You did not make one request to the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, but you could have done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The content we are discussing today is indeed the most typical example of how difficult the transition from words to actions is. Some people just can't do it. Apparently, they're still holding on to some old mental patterns and staying on a verbal level. Look, we've been asking you to request an investigative commission if there's anything really wrong with this transaction, so do it. No, you were just talking and talking about how something was wrong, how it was so many thousands of apartments, and I don't know what it was. We didn't know what kind of apartments or what the pattern would be. And then when it just didn't show another, because you kept yelling and saying that something was wrong, we just moved from words to actions that you couldn't do. And now, of course, it's all wrong because we asked for the first reference, but we kept calling you, once and twice, and three times, and I don't know how many times I wouldn't let anyone go, and I made him wrong. But that didn't happen. Now it's all wrong. You're also talking about why we didn't set up more investigative committees earlier. We're quite a few of them, you have to admit, probably hyperproduction isn't healthy either. We just did what we thought was good. Now you're saying that we're now demanding investigative commissions when we have the court at our disposal. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, we don't have a court of law. Yeah, he said, a fellow here in my line. We do not have the courts at our disposal and I am pleased to see that you have now admitted this. That's what you're saying. You know we don't have a court of law. The courts are a special branch of power. And God forbid, God forbid they try to influence me in any way. If you've been using the courts and it's possible someone got engaged, that's something else to say to the fellow who said that. And we don't have any courts at our disposal if you had them, okay. But good, it's not good, but that's just how it was, and you still think that now we're gonna be, we don't have them. The next thing I know, it's important to me that you're obviously afraid to investigate most of these transactions or at least to the extent that they can be investigated. Because you've obviously also found that all those thousands won't be able to be explored because you were there and where yours are.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a debate that this is not a word fight and I ask you, Mr debater, if you are telling us, to all of us who are in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u90	Yeah, everybody.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u92	Everyone. I'm sorry if maybe I was just facing this side. Obviously that's why you didn't want an investigation because you knew that in those cases there was a bunch of things that my colleague called you wet. Apparently, that's why you just talked, called press conferences, what would be good, what would you do. But you didn't do it because you were obviously afraid of it. And one more thing. There's no fear, there's no fear that I wouldn't be investigated by Mercator on this committee. Believe me. It's not. Because there's a bunch of things that need to be explored, and they happened a few years ago. This, if now, if Mercator, SOD and KAD shares were sold at market value, at real market value, is different if they were on the stock exchange, if someone was manipulating and adjusting the price themselves. That's second, we're not going in, I didn't say that. It's just by the way. The shares were sold at market value. This is all wrong. However, if, just before the elections, there was a contract on the table in the government halls, but I don't know, Mr Jankovic, and his family bought these shares for 36,000 or maybe even cheaper, and it's nothing, and that's normal, it wasn't signed, it was prepared, but it's all right, there's no problem. Well, then, if I were to mention these famous deposits at Triglav. We know who was on Triglav, who was at Mercator's, that at more than twice the price someone would buy shares, that's all right, that's this famous irreplaceable, unrecoverable and best manager, he could buy it at twice the value and there would be no damage to social property, no apartments would have been damaged anywhere, everything would be fine, no investigations would be obvious, this would all go away. And on the one hand, I understand why Mr. Jankovic would be ready or would like to buy 18,000 shares or 36,000 shares. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Well, Mercator, we know who represented him in his interest, but who would own it to understand each other. [[..]] This is because Mr Jankovic said he would resign from Mercator when the stock reaches 38,000. So if you actually admit what's on the market, the stock market is worth 38,000, then I don't know why he said it, why he needed it. And with regard to all the strong accusations, we would like to explore why some things would be hidden from Slovenian citizens, you can find out, but none of this is wrong, what would be wrong is what you are afraid of, but leave it alone, which citizens and citizens are not interested in, are obviously not interested in or should not be interested in because of your decision. And the fact is that if someone had to be ashamed, as was said before, that I would not suggest that colleagues should say anything else, it was said that we could be embarrassed in Parliament, I would say that I would distance myself from it. If there must already be someone in Parliament who is ashamed, then let those who, in the previous term, supported by almost a two-thirds majority that the SIB bank, the Zbiljski Gaj, the housing fund, the railway cabinets, the bankruptcy managers in Maribor, the TAM bus, the deposit of shares in Mercator by Triglav, not to mention, because perhaps the President could remind me. If anyone can be embarrassed in Parliament, then let them be. But those who supported that all these things had happened and were mostly supported in Parliament if anyone could be ashamed to understand each other. And now, let me finish. I personally support the establishment of this commission, which will investigate a number of these cases, where we will find out whether the Commission will find out whether this is really a matter of injury or not. If we have to investigate something, then let's examine it, but not call the press conferences to be damages, make an investigative commission, this is an ideal opportunity, and let's do a little wider inventory, a little wider review, so that we don't just say something's wrong, but we do nothing, let's do it, let's also explore this case. Once again, this government and this majority are also not available here in Parliament. We do not have it, if someone had it in the previous term, it is something else, but this government and this majority in the National Assembly of the Judiciary are not available. Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In Slovenia we are witnessing the process of uniting power. The legislative, executive and judicial unity is clearly seen. Some prominent legal experts also point to this negative process. By adopting the law on RTV Slovenia, preparing the government for a new law on media and certain capital connections, it is clear enough to take over media houses or media as the fourth branch of government. Everything is therefore to be decided from one cabinet, from the cabinet of the Prime Minister. In the context of the unification of the various branches of government, there is also the establishment of an investigative commission proposed by Members and Members of the coalition. This is quite an unusual move, since the investigative commissions have so far, in spite of our short parliamentary tradition, proposed mainly in the opposition. The parliamentary investigation is a clear instrument of opposition. First of all, the Commissions of Inquiry for parliamentary control over the executive branch of power and are one of the key supervisory or, if you will, control instruments of the National Assembly. I cannot shake off the impression that before the commission of inquiry, as it is now conceived, a political process will be conducted with representatives of the former authorities. We have also witnessed similar accounts in the famous, of course, narratives, Pukšič's investigative commission, as well as the truth of the love, Jerovsk's investigative commission was not far behind. At the time, however, the main players in these investigative commissions were at least members of the opposition. Today, I would like to hear from the ruling coalition the former prominent officials of Drnovskova and Rop's government. So far, I have listened to the performances of my colleagues and colleagues of the government coalition, and I thought I was sitting in the hall from the previous term. The Prime Minister himself, Mr Janez Janša, said a while ago in an interview on TV that his Members have not yet taken on a new role and have performed in many ways as if they were still in the opposition. Dear colleagues and colleagues from government parties, you are now in power, and in the opposition at least allow us to establish and run an investigative commission, whose establishment we have announced before you, and you have beaten us to the right. Thank you very much. I did not appoint Mr Jerovšek, but I appointed the commission of Jerov.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u95	Mr. Jerovšek, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I must warn my colleague Bev that I will bring him a magnetogram when he strongly praised me for leading the investigative commission. Today he's spreading manipulation and he's saying something that's extremely negative. And that's why I also think that we're in the hall from the previous term, because you're still defending irregularities, constantly defending corruption, resisting this to be clarified. And we insist on our way. I am also grateful, not only to Bevku, but also to my colleague Squill, that in some way, I would say he avenged Kacin when the sale of Bank Koper updated when his client made such a mark on the national body with this sale that a share of the general voyage, which was saved by millions of state money, was given into foreign hands. I think it's really about Squeaking Kacin's revenge. Mr. Kacin has a "butter" drill, and I understand these internal battles. I think that Banka Koper will also have to be placed under the magnifying glass of a special commission of inquiry, and suggest that you investigate yourself as you report to us. Suggest an investigative commission on Bank Koper and you will have the opportunity to investigate yourself and we will cooperate. We will not be afraid, as you are afraid to participate in this investigative committee, because you know there is butter on your head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Bevk. A replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, in 2000, I commended Jerovsk’s commission of inquiry. I said she was brilliant compared to Pukšič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greeting to all present in the hall. KAD and SOD were set up to provide funds for the payment of certain populations in Slovenia, i.e. denationalisedists and pensioners by intelligent management. With a smart economy, these resources could be sufficient to relieve the state budget or taxpayers. However, because it was not smart to manage itself, but by hand, under the table, because there have been a lot of suspicions about irregularities in all these years, we can talk today about the consequences that taxpayers will pay for all these holes that have been created by the management very much domestically. I therefore certainly support the establishment of an investigative commission which will have a wider spectrum in place to review all these 83 injuries. When I look at all these lists of companies, I see a lot of connections and maybe it all concentrates on about 5, 6 companies. The irregularities were a whole bunch, but most of them hit the day with the sale of the state stake in Mercator and the new owner or new segment of the owners did what was long overdue, replaced the management or the person we now think will bring down the whole of Slovenia. With fear I went to Mercator this week, when some of the basic funds were run out, because I also partially fell for the world to collapse, that now that the administration has changed, that now there will be no more jamming, that the sellers will drown in tears and so on, but nothing has changed. Our Mercator is still good at business, it's still a nice store, well-established and so on. Well, as I mentioned earlier, when we look at the list of these companies, we see that Mercator is present in several companies. So let's start with the first one written, this is Sava, the company for execution and financing d.d. Kranj. The company was founded from Sava d.d., where a considerable amount of capital came from the sale of Sava Tires, this is the factory that manufactures the autocoat, Goodyear Engineer Products and all of this was sold for about $300 million and after deducting all the duties paid to the Continental, the Sava Manager was left with about $200 million. It also bought 2.94% of Mercator's property and there was a connection here, we come back to Mercator. Well, Sava bought, among other things, the Color Medvedas and sold it, which is also on the list. PPC Mountain Fair Kranj d.d., no more, there stands a Balkan shop called Obi and so on. The compass hotel and Bled here will be some kind of audit inside. So, a whole bunch of irregularities that need to be investigated and we always go back to Mercator. There's something else about Mercator. Such mourners are now singing after Slovenia, because the change in personnel has taken place, but I wonder whether the director of administration was really so capable, why he did not open the shops in Graz and Trieste and make an anti-offensive of what we expect, we expect the intrusion of merchants from Western Europe. Some are already present, and others will be coming. In addition, this whole success story has come up in very suspicious ways. We know that some of the builders in the mountains have failed because of their business with Crimea Elekta, and so on, we are not talking about the graduation that was bought. So a more controversial person than a person who would represent a story of success. Well, then we have here a whole bunch of all sorts of weird jobs that were carried out mainly at the time of Mr Lenič's directorship. In view of the fact that financial acrobatics have taken place in his day, which are living art, I would wonder if he might be an art history professor because he was carrying out such artistic transactions. I agree that Mercator must also be taken under close supervision, for his 68,000 parked shares in Triglav and the estimated damage to 1.34 billion tolars is also a matter to be investigated. Finally, I would mention that a gentleman who is a victim of some kind, I don't know what, will receive 100 million tolars of severance and will not be afraid for his future. I am more afraid of how we will find the funds to be provided by the CAD and the CSO for the beneficiaries financed by this Fund. Therefore, once again, I support the establishment of a commission and hope that it will start its work as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I would like to tell Mr. Ziherl that he was here talking about Obi as a Balkan shopkeeper. Mr. Ziherl, Obi is one of the biggest investments [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Excuse me, I'll tell you. One of the Greatest I'll Give [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u103	Please, Mr. Squeakle, really!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u104	I'll pass my procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u105	Please, if you'll leave me alone. You said it was a procedural question. Please, what are you not satisfied with?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u106	I am not satisfied, Mr President, that as President here you allow individual Members to explain this to me, important companies operating in Slovenia, including the foreign investor Obi, who is not a Balkan shop, but the Austrian branch of Home Depoja, one of the major trades in industrial equipment, construction and so on. [[...]] And that you, as chairman of the National Assembly, should prevent any individual company from being designated as a Balkan shoplifter and ensure an appropriate level of debate. You've warned individual Members several times. I used to try to defend some directors. I know you don't care if these directors know anything because they're not yours, you have to throw them away, and you're doing it successfully. However, of course, you are driving away foreign direct investment. You, Mr. Ziherl, are from Škofje Loka, where you have a very important investor who in Unitech makes a number of very important products for all European automotive industries, Volkswagens and audios. And if you do so, Mr. Ziherl, and if you allow it, then the debate on the sale of KAD and SOD's share will give rise to a debate on the failure of investments in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u108	So please, I'll finish, yes, I'll finish in time. [[...]] Look, I think it is really necessary to remind Members of the ruling coalition again that we are not here discussing either the Balkan shoplifting, or individuals, but we are discussing whether, in the case of Ambassador Mercator, the owners of the KAD and the SOD have really protected them. And these are Slovenian pensioners and these are Slovenian denationalisation beneficiaries. And, of course, any other debate is simply causing major disruptions in the Slovenian economy, any company that will find itself, according to Mr Tank's proposal, on the list of investigations today, should withdraw trading in the stock market in accordance with the procedure of the securities market law, because their ownership structure is questionable because it will be carried out, if you want, by political pursuit in the National Assembly, and this is proposed by the ruling coalition, which on the one hand says we are foreign investments, and on the other hand destroys them by the statements of Mr Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. Thank you very much. There's no replica to the procedural question. I'd ask you again, I've twice, three times, if I'm not mistaken, kindly warned you what the topic of today's debate is. I'm embarrassed to keep warning you. Above all, I am embarrassed to listen to serious insults at the expense of some who are not here and who cannot defend themselves. We're moving on. Mr Mitja Ljublješek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u110	Dear colleague, dear colleagues. I've been thinking, if I even come by, given that there are few of us in the Chamber, that he's in the opposition, I think I've counted seven colleagues and a colleague, which means that what I'm about to say is I'm talking more to myself. And yet. In my debate, I do not want to talk about individuals in public known and suspicious property. This has been quite heard and said today because I believe that this is the subject of a parliamentary inquiry or commission if, when it is established and established. Why I support the establishment of only one parliamentary commission with the proposed companies, and not just one, with Mercator alone. Because this comes from my view and the impression that I have received, like most citizens, on ownership processes after years of independence. The ownership of so-called social or state property in a way characteristic of most transition countries when the narrow circle of people, managers and people who were close to official policy took advantage of irregular and loose legislation, ineffective state law enforcement authorities, ineffective state prosecutions and the judiciary and the behaviour and blessing of the current government. Clarification of the company and society in a variety of strange and questionable ways, making individuals incredibly rich. It created the elite of the modern Slovenian transitional rich in co-existence with the government and the ruling policy, especially at the expense of the other citizens of this country. This was therefore a transitional time, which was no excuse for the fact that the Slovenian capitalist elite was able to produce on one side, and on the other hand there was an increasing number of unemployed, over 100,000 and an increasing number of people with minimal and low incomes, many of them on the verge of social survival. I cannot help but wonder who, at the time you were colleagues of the opposition in power, allowed some to become immeasurably rich and others to plunge into unemployment and poverty. Today you continue to claim that the rich will be even richer and poorer. Who, then, has made rich in the last 12 years, and on the other hand, become poor? The then opposition certainly didn't. Where at the time, in all these events, the personal, union leaders were, in order to prevent the demonstrations from bankruptcy, the dismissal of workers, the theft of social property, the transfer of officials, the arrogant deception of the public and so on. In particular, district policy has protected in a direct and direct way the people it has placed in key places. Some well-known political, related and clientistic links to the objective of personal exploitation, wealth and political influence through capital have emerged in public. There were SIB Bank, Zbilski Gaj, Banka Koper, Insurance Company Triglav, brewery affair, not to mention. And I'm asking which one was cleared. Who with the name and surname of these affaires has already been brought before the court? All of this happened in the powerlessness of a number of injured, humiliated and existentially endangered citizens of this country. According to last year's elections, the new government and coalition have launched recovery processes for poor and worrying conditions. Both in the areas of executive power and in companies where the state still has its share of property, which, of course, is of no interest to you opposition colleagues from the LDS and SD. Any minor change in the existing 12-year-old situation brings you incredible reactions and objections, threats to complaints, referendums, evidence of violations of laws, constitutions, human rights and so on. Whatever you are twisting, proving, preventing or threatening, the truth is that the poor and the rich have become one and the others, especially because of your merit. In your 12-year reign, when you had all the vices of authority in your hands, and in all that time the opposition could not stop you, those who could do so knowingly or because of their privileges or benefits did not want or should not. I cannot understand why you are suddenly deeply concerned about the damage to state property in the Mercator case and how you are in all ways stepping up parliamentary investigations into the alleged damage to state property in the proposed companies. You no longer know what else to do to prevent a parliamentary investigation in any way, as you also say by suing the President of the National Assembly. I ask whether it is only right that all the proposed cases be reviewed by one Commission on the basis of the criteria it will adopt with the Rules of Procedure at the beginning of work. Is it not abnormal for the two commissions to deal with the Mercator problem, each commission with its views and criteria? Is it not yet right to review all proposed companies and companies and eventually to make a common list of possible damage to social property? Is it not normal to start an investigation at the beginning with the first share sold and not the last? Is it not very correct that the signed coalition proposals propose a compromise solution when they propose the priorities of an investigation where the Mercator case moves from the last place sold to a high priority sixth place from more than 80 proposed companies? Is it not very wrong that the opposition does not support the investigation of all these proposed companies? As a Member, in particular as a citizen, I expect not to say so, and the earliest parliamentary inquiry in all proposed companies, which will identify alleged damage to state property, has established the responsibility of public function holders, and on the basis of established illegality, has initiated appropriate, including sanctions measures. After the parliamentary investigation has been completed, it may become clear to all of us why the rich have become rich and why the poor have become poor and in the coalition we will do everything we can to ensure that the rich are not unfairly richer and the poor are much poorer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Master Anton Rop has the floor. He's quitting. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I'd start with the Mercator thing. What bothers me is that some of your colleagues who are just leaving the hall, because apparently only they know something smart to say here, frankly speaking about the fact that in the Mercator case, without any suspicion, there was actually damage, illegal conduct and so on. With this, gentlemen, you prejudge the matter, that's the first thing it is, and if that's the case, then I don't understand if it's all clear, if it's all over, why do you even want the commission, why do we need it then. And the repetition of the various numbers around 29 billion and so on, I think it's premature and let's give time to actually get to the right data. I agree with the fact that we all have the same constitutional rights, in this respect perhaps everyone would be pleased or most pleased if we really set up two committees. But if we follow the logic that it is necessary for one company to set up a commission, then we can go to another extreme and set up a special commission for every sale in the past, and then we would have, I don't know, 83 commissions, and in this mandate we would only be working in different commissions, spending taxpayer money and ignoring everything else. That is why I think that the decision to have two investigative committees is not rational, that what the LDS colleagues have said is that the content overlaps, I think the only logical and rational thing is that we have one such commission. I listened carefully to the LDS representative's hearing, where he advocated why the priority was to deal with only one case, one sale, specifically Mercator. First, the shares were sold at the time of the current coalition. What's so special about that? This means that, at the time of the current coalition, different rules as previously applied may apply. Do the mistakes that may occur in this coalition's mandate have any different weight? The other reason for the preferential treatment was that the shares were sold directly in the package without a call for tender. But if we look at data for past sales, which were also quite a few, most of these shares were sold in the same way, such as Delo d.d., I quote from one report, the sales negotiations were conducted by the management, which contacted individual shareholders, agreed with them for the sale price, payment terms, decided on the sale of shares and so on. Is that transparent? This is what we have heard in previous discussions, that a European call for proposals should be made and that I know what else. No, it's a direct sale. On behalf of the owners - because I am counting on the owners' shares or shares to sell - to negotiate, negotiate and agree. Also in Gorenje, for example, some discussions took place in the direction of the total purchase of the share of Soda and so on. These are just two cases, I wouldn't mention them anymore, because quite a few of these things have been mentioned. Let's move on. Harmful sales - it is assumed that in Mercator's case it was harmful sales. In the case of sales of CM Objectives, a sales price of SIT 21,500 was reached for the stock or value of the whole package of 205 million and so on. According to the value of the investment in KAD books, a negative effect of 131 million was achieved, at 205 million. But this wasn't a harmful sale? Here, however, everything was fine and no one proposed the establishment of a commission or any measures. Next, why Mercator first or exclusively Mercator. My colleague Mitja has already said, from 83 companies Mercator is proposed to be ranked in the sixth place, although this is the last example of such sales. This suggests that we are not in any way preventing the opposition from coming to this investigation, but in fact, in some real time, we can expect this to be reviewed. There are at least two reasons for this. The first is that we would like these allegations and charges against the opposition to object as soon as possible. The second is, I think, even more important: we want an investigation to be carried out for all companies or, at least, for most companies that have sold or sold these shares. And Mercator, in the sixth place, is just one step on the way to the next companies. We will therefore make sure that this matter goes through as soon as possible. Otherwise, Mr Rob himself said earlier that one case could be investigated within about one month. And if we start investigating Mercator in the sixth month, I don't think it's really so impossible that this would actually be an impossible investigation. And last but not least. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I've been listening to this debate for a couple of hours, and I'm not jumping into words, so I'd like to ask you not to bother me. Finally, it seems to me that we have an investigative committee that works according to uniform criteria, which will also have a single report, so that we can compare individual cases with each other. I therefore support the establishment of a commission to investigate Mercator's case as well as any other suspicious or controversial case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Member and fellow Members! In fact, I don't mind if there are so many seats in this Parliamentary Chamber empty. The empty hall, especially when it comes to the Parliamentary Chamber, has its own speech and its power, the communication to the Slovenian public, especially when it comes to the empty seats of those who are at least slightly affected by the matter on the agenda. Today's debate has definitely shown that the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry is justified. An investigation is necessary to establish alleged damage to state property through the KAD and SOD transactions. That's enough matter. I'm afraid it's too much. Now it is only a key issue today, or two, or one parliamentary investigative commission. We have two applications or two requests for the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry, first and second, then after the date and time and by the number of signatories signed. I would like to take this place to defend the President of the National Assembly, who, in my opinion, made every effort at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, which took place even in two parts, to comply with both requests for an investigative commission. Of course, the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly has been professionally assisted in this, in which people with the highest academic titles and their names cannot be ignored. I just want this National Assembly to set up an investigative commission as soon as possible. I would like 31 fellow signatories, so-called other requirements for the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry, to understand that their request is in fact a subset of the first requirement signed by 39 Members. I think that the proponents, 39 Members, that we have also taken due account of the demands of the second group, by favouring even the investigation of Mercator-related transactions. I am confident that the National Assembly will have a happy hand in appointing members of this Commission of Inquiry and will choose a high-quality leader to show Slovenian taxpayers what has actually happened in the past and if you want to do so this year with regard to damage or non-injury of state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Paula Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, not just colleagues! After all, it was very difficult for me to discuss at this point, but in spite of everything. In view of what I have heard today, however, I have not been given internal peace to sit here and listen and allow me only a few thoughts on the establishment of this commission of inquiry. Of course, the simple question is: why such a struggle for this committee? Why does the opposition, together with the media, with such a pump, seek to realize its desire in the commission of inquiry? The answer is simple, at least as far as I'm concerned. Without discovering and wanting to detect irregularities in the sale of KAD's and SOD's shares, I think the rabbit is hidden in a bush, which is called hiding what a different commission might discover. What, though, was so wrong in Mercator and in these years of this Mercatorage in Slovenia? Is it really the point to detect irregularities at the time of sale, but if, on today's day, the shares are listed significantly lower, that is, significantly lower than the opposition's claim and much lower than the SOD and KAD sold to the buyers? So what's the point of this commission of inquiry? Fearful. Fearful, who and from where, in fact, President Jankovic and all Mercator's business are so abundantly good and so fine. It comes from the foundation, the position of the former Prime Minister on the left of my colleague, Mr Rope, who himself has repeatedly claimed to have politically set him up to manage this property there. How did he manage it? He's done a lot of good, all right. In Slovenia we do have a lot of shopping malls, shopping centres that are regulated by European standards and are really nice. There are even three in the Market. In my congregation, there were even three. But despite all that, were they properly set, or was this a pure calculation, they were placed in Yugoslavia as they were supposed to, was there something hidden here, or was that what was to be discovered in the investigative commission or vice versa or with another commission? You said today that seven years will take this commission to review everything she wants, everything she's asked for. Seven years, gentlemen. Whether in these 12 years there have been so many serious criminal and wrong decisions or sales on this part of the economy alone, that we will be messing around for seven years now by investigating all these sales and non-sales and all. Simply put, I suggest that this Commission not only becomes a commission of this mandate, but rather a permanent committee. Because obviously a long, long years will not reveal everything you've done in the past with state property. It is only that questions or claims arise in the public or even the fact that the president of the administration, a weeping man, raised 8 billion Mercator property at the time of his departure in eight years. Can anyone explain this to me, or does this commission that you wanted, or does it want to investigate? How do you get a billion tolars a year? Or the workers who gave him a spanking there, something that cried in that regiment and cried with him, know that this gentleman earned 340,000 tolars an hour. Now he's saying something disturbing, and he's gonna stop me. Well, you guys who are so pro-procedural or for the truth and so on, leave me alone. Is one of those hours really worth the hours of Jankovich's work, assuming he worked eight hours that much? Do those poor vendors know that the gentleman received as much as four workers in Mercator at his retirement? They don't deserve a lifetime. For the rest of their lives, they don't earn as much as he did or got for his retirement as good Jankovich. You know, that's what people need to be told. I'm really glad this committee is coming along, and if anyone's interested in having Mercator look at you first, believe me, it's from these addresses. Here you have to cry, here you have to cry, with this money, how you get it. But I'm sorry, it's just Father Jankovic. But where are the boys and where are the aunts and Elektas and I don't know what and how to cry and read in the paper, the horror, the handball club will fail now that Jankovich is gone. He didn't finance it with his money. He made it out of state money.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u117	Mr. Rupar [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u118	And that's something we need to explore. And this needs to be discovered and I would also ask my colleagues, I would very much like to participate in this process, very much, really, because I would like to cry too, really, believe me, but not because Jankovich is no longer, for he has gone. And it would be very fair and correct for all those workers to tell them what was going on with Mercator, how much money there was in Mercator, which, of course, must be discovered where everything was going. And now I've only said one very, very banal example of handball. Where's all that horrible, terrible spending of Mercator's money that went for political purposes? Jankovic was the godfather of many projects, gentlemen, you know this very well and I would be very, very sincerely pleased if this commission starts working immediately and if Mercator takes Mercator for his first review. Really. And those of you who are going to work with a full pair, not the way they put it on your heart right now, you're going to be doing one of those cute sales for a month. Not for a month, take a lot more time here at Mercator's. Find out how much of that property was really lost in the sale or how much crap and lies there are. And there's a lot of them, and you're going to get the reverse data, the billions that the obvious opposition loses, you're going to find out that it really did this once in a while. And it's not just about 40 billion, it's about very, very insanely larger money. Only Mr Jankovic has eight billion. I do, because if he doesn't have something to do now, because he's crying so much that now he's out of a job, let him count, after a grand change those billions, he's got until the end of his life and another generation to count. It just counts. That is why I wish this committee great, not happiness, knowledge in particular, and be frank and say, tell us where there are irregularities and where are the political abuses that you want them to be. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you. Please. Please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u120	I would kindly ask if, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure, we would ensure that, of course, those who speak in this national assembly of matters which are not on the agenda are responsible for the holders of political functions, on the agenda, Mr Rupar, the responsibility of Mr Janša, who has said in this national assembly that he may meet with anyone he wishes. Of course you can, only responsibility must bear for it. And the responsibility is that this Mercator sold it to Italians. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u121	Procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u122	My procedural proposal is next, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u123	Let us limit ourselves to the procedural question, not to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u124	I ask you kindly to apply Article 76 fully today to Members and Members of Parliament who do not discuss the content of this Commission of Inquiry, which is the responsibility of political officials. Here we have a kind of clever deception and debate on matters that individuals have no idea about to hide what the purpose of this commission is. We are setting up a commission to protect the reputation of the Prime Minister, Mr Janša, and a commission to malign the reputation of Slovenian economists. Those are the facts! And, of course, I cannot allow you, Vice President, not to act here when someone is profaning and talking about some who, for the first time, are not here, and talking about their untruths. Mr. Rupar, such is the sad truth! [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr. Rupar, allow me to give you a sample. Mr Janša spoke from this city a few months ago, or a few years ago, when he was still an opposition Member, about the damage done to the sale of Systemic Technology. Today's Court of Auditors opinion has been issued and the Court of Auditors has rejected this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u125	Mr. Squeakle, thank you very much! That was a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u126	And all we want is to drop the suspicion of damage. So I suggest we concentrate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u127	Mr. Squeakle, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u128	to establish an act and give an appropriate reminder to Mr Rupar. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going anywhere with this kind of work. If I told everyone I cut out words, it wouldn't be right. I left the debate, but twice, I asked you three times to take the debate in the direction of the agenda or the point that we are discussing. That is why I no longer allow any procedural question, but I give the floor to Mrs Majdi Shirca. [[Back-up advertising.]] I try to run a session, but sometimes it's impossible. Please, a brief procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u130	Mr Vice President, in order to protect you, I must protest that Mr. Squeakl, with procedural intervention, is abusing the procedure and running the National Assembly! Mr. Rupar spoke only of what LDS had launched, the irregularities of Mercator. He was just talking about Mercator's irregularities! They launched the theme, and now it's procedurally wrong. And please punish Mr. Squeak for such behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your protection. I'll protect myself. Here we go, Mrs. Majda Shirca has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u132	Your Honor! I think today's conversation is very simple. That it goes this way, that if you want to disable something, you're neurotically rejecting it, and you're blocking it in a twisted way. What does that mean? It means you're scared. You're scared because you have a bad conscience. That you want to hide something, cover up the truth. That's what you're doing today. This means, on the other hand, recognition and guilt in some way. In one of the other terminology used in psychoanalysis, this is a suppression. But what is suppressed always returns, and this is at the heart of today's discussion: cover up and suppress the confession of guilt.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you, Vice President. First the protest. I think you did the wrong thing in the order of things, but if I don't take my time, please answer me later. I will conclude why Mr Rupar, Mr Horvat, were before us, who should obviously be in front of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u135	I'll just answer that. Because they were Mr Jože Horvat instead of Mr Mikolić and Mr Rupar instead of Bogomir Zamernik. The answer is correct and written on my letter.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u136	Of course, the answer is not correct, but then it is. I too was crying when I listened to the well-known superior of Mr Rupar, the Mayor of Tržić and the MP of this assembly. With all my emotions, I join his concerns and those of the workers he has shown mercy to. But I won't talk about it. I think, Mr President, who is not here today, and members of the coalition, I think that the opposition with today's letter and with the proposal put forward by the leader of the Group of Members is actually giving you an opportunity to think. I think we have given you the opportunity to think about how to get out of this problem that you have cooked yourself, in fact, in the best way, because I see that in the debates that you are actually presenting, you do not have a strong enough argument to consolidate this request for a commission. And I think that, in fact, by proposing to you whether separate committees are working on their own cases or that we are forming a joint commission to put Mercator first and that this Mercator is led by someone who is signed on this request for an investigative committee of 31 Members, you actually achieve what we usually call a compromise. I think it would be wise to think about it, and I think it would be right for the President to consider also this suspension of the meeting and act as we give him the opportunity. In all your debates you gave, after an old period, after 12 years, there was only one swimming, one denying achieved. You've forgotten about 12 years of development in Slovenia, you've forgotten about high economic growth, you've forgotten about raising standards, you've forgotten about joining the EU, you've forgotten about everything that's been positive. You've been trying to find the very negative things that you haven't been able to do, because you've listed them as from some phone book where companies are written, companies that have absolutely nothing to do with today's topic. Well, unfortunately, you have no argument here. And you have proven or demonstrated your success in comparison to these successes of previous governments, with the banal successes of the past: these are stickers and notary services or notary tariffs. If this is comparable to the 12 years of continuous rise of Slovenian society, the Slovenian economy, then of course you must check this injustice on your own. So, like some of us, you also act as an eternal opposition to us, even though you are now in another role. Get used to this position so that you do not look for the culprits for your actions in others who have already experienced this humility with the result of the elections. Then you cited some cases that couldn't handle any criticism. For example, Mr Sok cited the case of the Ormož Sugar Factory. Therefore, it is obvious that the privatisation in which the Dutch took over the majority share, together with the Italians. So he's a native, and he knows the end, and he knows that if the Dutch didn't take it, there would be no sugar factory today. With our agricultural policy, with our technology, through our control of the process, with our marketing of the sugar factory, there would be no more if there were no Dutch. This is of course very clear, well known to him, but this is useful for today's occasion, when it is obvious that, therefore, this TSO, now by market order, has no chance of survival. Who knew about the EU when the Dutch were coming in, who knew about the market order and, of course, this story doesn't make sense to drag on. Mr Jerovšek spoke of corruption as a "cancer wound" of a certain period. I believe he was talking about the current period. In doing so, he forgot that this corruption is still a fact that there is a much larger fact in your period, and you want, of course, to deny and devalue and cancel, so you are abolishing the Kosovo Commission. At the same time, you're talking about cancer in this society. He also used to say that the media used to be afraid, now they're autonomous and free. So this argument doesn't go with any other claim he made that Jankovic was made a hero by the media. If we were under our influence - it says that they are free - so these media have probably done it under the influence of their Jankovic for hero, for use, for these opportunities that we are listening to today. How exactly did this committee come to be? So it's a well-known story of who told the first public that the commission would be set up, it was a group of SDs and a group of LDS. You then jumped, and after a long, long search and a way to form such a commission together with the President of the National Assembly, you found some form which, of course, does not hold any judgment today. Time is running out, so 10 minutes is no longer available. But I have to say, it seems to me that you are rejecting Mercator's investigation for at least three reasons. Firstly, since the local elections in 2006, you do not want to tolerate this bulldozer-bad image, which it has with bulldozer personnel, in 2006, because it would harm you in the local elections and thus lose ratings, and probably even local elections. And because it is easy for gentlemen sitting in coalition ranks to go into an investigation against their leaders, against Mr Janša, against Mrs Kos, against Mr Visiak, because they are your colleagues. You are all Janša and therefore you, Janša, cannot conduct investigations against Janša. Thus, Mr Rupar cannot conduct investigations against Janša, so that Mr Grims, who has his problems in the party, cannot conduct investigations against Janša, because he would have even more problems. Please, don't paint us with the fact that you don't want the commission, you can't put Mercator first, you're afraid of that, because of course you should intervene in your own kind. And so once again, the time is running out, I suggest you think about, keep some of that weight aside and try to compromise with us. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Friday. Your time is up. Excuse me? Just give me a second to calm down. Who's got the replica, please? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I would only like to say to Mr. Friday that he misunderstood me. I have pointed out how in the long term can sell food-processing industries a risky business. I wasn't talking about the fact that at that point the decision was wrong, and that's what the commission's gonna be doing. I just wanted to answer what it meant from the point of view of the adopted market order of sugar, today this situation for the sugar factory in Ormož. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Who else has the replica, please? Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. It is strange that I have to answer, although I have not received a word yet today, but let me do so with the simple application of constitutional law. Look, the Constitution always has to be read as a whole. And from the Slovenian Constitution, from the rules of procedure and from the laws governing the parliamentary investigation, it is clear and clear that only one committee can be set up and therefore only one parliamentary inquiry is being conducted. For every honest citizen, every honest citizen, every well-intentioned man who has a positive attitude towards his country and the rule of law, it is enough to say this once, so let me say it twice for you. It is clear from the Slovenian Constitution, the laws and regulations governing the parliamentary investigation that only one investigative commission can be set up and one investigative committee can be conducted. Therefore, to get to that point as soon as possible and hopefully to complete its work as possible, I shall also cancel that forecasting debate that I have been notified to later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, you have the floor, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you, Chairman. I repeat to Mr. Friday. Mr Friday, I have not been able to do so until today, they have proved no crime, even though I have been repeatedly charged, several times by LDS, but I am always waiting for the truth. And like I wrote to someone recently, the truth will always come, even in this case Mercator will come. The media made Yankovic a hero. Of course, because if the media were at least partially distributed across this political space, they would be telling the truth about it, including what I told you. And lastly, Mr Friday: yes, if we're all Janša, okay, we're Janša, you're all Ropes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u143	Mr. Cyril Testen has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Messengers and Members! Given that much has already been said, I will try to concentrate on the work of the Commission, which has undoubtedly been the reason why we are discussing this topic today. The Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances has met three times on this subject and earlier Mr Swickl mentioned the responsibility of political officials. This commission has taken place, I'll say, in violation of the work set out for this committee. It is said that, as a political official, he is responsible for the fact that the commission was wrongly called. Previously, it was also said that the first proposed a reference to the creation of an SD commission, that is not true. We have already presented the Commission's establishment on the budget control committee as an initiative, but since we have not been heard, we have already proposed at the press conference the establishment of a commission with a slightly different content, in order to investigate all the damage, not just Mercator, as opposition Members would have wanted. As far as the Commission is concerned, I must say that at the first meeting of the Commission, we have already opposed the positional Members and requested the opinion of the legislative and legal service on the competence of the Commission. The President has promised us that we will get this opinion at the next call. Unfortunately, this did not happen, although we then demanded it again. This opinion was received only after the third session of this Commission on the same subject and only at the request of the SDS and New Slovenia. We have also asked the Coalition Members on the Commission to wait for the results of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange and the Securities Market Agency to have some better foundations on this basis than just the newspaper articles that we went through in the first, second, and I do not think we have many more arguments for the debate today - we are talking about the prices at which Mercator's shares were sold, but unfortunately we do not know which price is right. We don't know if there are any offers, what kind of offers there are, what kind of prices there are, we don't officially know anything, and I think we're kind of in the dark and only the Commission can figure that out. Only after the third obstruction occurred did things move and then quickly progressed in this direction, that it was proposed to set up two committees within a few days. It is true that they have come to the public, via the media, the first in line or the first in favour of the LDS, but it is also true that, as I said earlier, we have proposed the creation of a different commission. That is why I think it is very necessary to set up a commission, and I also agree that Mercator would be given a certain advantage in the investigation, because I believe that after all the recent findings we have received, that this is necessary and that in the case of Mercator there will be a lot more besides the sale of KAD and SOD, a lot of what has happened so far, which we have not known and we do not know yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u145	Mr. Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In their debates, opposition Members have consistently pointed out to the coalition that it is preventing the establishment of an investigative commission, which is supposed to be done by not allowing the establishment of an investigative commission on the basis of their request. This is supposed to be a violation of the constitutional rights that Members have. In doing so, they also acknowledge to our President of the National Assembly that, by refusing to include on the agenda a proposal for the establishment of an investigative commission required by the aforementioned opposition parties, it violates the Constitution. It is amazing how easily such assessments are expressed, precisely by the opposition Members, who, in their past mandates, were themselves part of the ruling coalition, framed the rules of the game in their own image and in accordance with their own interests. Now that the President of the National Assembly is acting and fully respecting the Constitution and the laws, the opposition says that he should not do so, but should decide as the opposition wishes, even though that would not be legal. What is it, exactly? It is true that it is not possible to decide on the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry, but it is introduced by law if the legal conditions for it are met and they are, if a qualified group of Members so requires. In our case, there are two requirements relating to the determination of liability in relation to the alleged damage to State property in the sale of Kad and the Court’s shares. Both claims relate to damage to State property, which is intended to be done by the sale of Kad's shares and the Court of Justice. The difference is only within the scope of the investigation: the first requirement relates to 83 sales and the second requirement relates to only one sale. If the requirements related to different sales, then the establishment of two investigative commissions would not be disputed. However, both requests for investigation are covered, not entirely, because after one request it is 83 sales and in the other case it is one, as I have already said. However, this one is already covered in the first request. Therefore, the second request for an investigation submitted by the opposition is fully covered by the first request made by 39 Members. And this request was filed first. Of course, two investigations into the same thing cannot be conducted, as fundamental legal principles, including those relating to human rights, do not allow it. Infringement of human rights is certainly given if two different investigations are being conducted against someone about the same matter. Someone said he understood human rights concerns, but it was supposed to be high-ranking officials, including the Prime Minister. Yeah, or are they not subject to human rights, or what? Are human rights not universal rights that apply to all? Or may you feel that some human rights should not be dealt with? I don't understand that. And as soon as a request is made that meets the conditions for the establishment of an investigative commission, this commission must be established, not by vote, but directly under the provisions of the law of the investigative commission itself. The second request, which seeks to establish an investigation into a case already covered by the first request, cannot be settled. We have to respect the law. This request cannot be accepted, not because the conditions for investors are not met, but because it is not possible to initiate an investigation into the case in which the investigation has already been initiated; I have already said that. These are fundamental legal principles, and I will tell you where this is written, these are fundamental legal principles which cannot be denied and taken into account on behalf of certain higher objectives or interests. All these higher objectives and interests, which should lead to the President's inclusion and allowing the establishment of another investigation into the same matter, which some of you stress, must not tempt anyone into violating fundamental legal principles. And when you say that this is not written anywhere, and you say that it is used, that this is not a judicial procedure, criminal procedure and so on, and you say that an analogous criminal procedure can be applied only when a provision of the law of investigation is directly sent to the law of criminal procedure, I am surprised in particular my colleagues by the lawyers that you simply silently paragraph 19 - I do not believe that you do not know it in the 19th article of this law, which says: "In addition to the provisions of the law on criminal proceedings directly applicable under this law," you said, "there are other issues which are not regulated by it, the relevant provisions of the law on criminal proceedings apply mutatis mutandis." Well, here you see, and you've consciously shut that up. You also say, "Let the opposition launch an investigation into Mercator's sale." But it's not about whether we want to allow it or not, it's about not being able to do it. And the President of the National Assembly must not violate the basic legal principles on behalf of anyone, not of the opposition who wants it now, not of anyone else, and perhaps not of any other time in the interest of a coalition that would ever want it in the future. The objective does not justify the means. If laws, constitutions, or fundamental legal principles do not permit anything, do not try to force it. This is no longer the rule of law, but the adjustment of the law to the current needs. We have a constitution, we have laws, we have rules of procedure of the National Assembly, we have fundamental legal principles, and these are the framework of the conduct of the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly, who is the first to hold on to it, whether it ever corresponds to one, the other or the third party in our Parliament. The request for the initiation of an investigation also states that Mercator will be dealt with as a matter of priority. In the 83rd case, Mercator is expected to be treated as 6. Therefore, this is certainly a priority consideration, as the hearing will take place in the first fourteen of all the matters covered by the investigation. Therefore, this proves that Mercator has a high priority in the eyes of the applicants, which is that we are 39 Members, certainly a high priority of treatment. I do not know why only the opposition would have the opportunity to launch investigations into certain issues, especially if they do not do so or if their intention is to do so does not take place within a reasonable time frame, and in this case this was the case. The opposition certainly had the opportunity to request an investigation into Mercator's sale and did not do so. It did so only after a group of 39 coalition members had decided to do so in view of the media reactions and doubts raised by opposition members. Only after the investigation had already been initiated did the opposition wake up and raised 31 signatories and submitted the request to the National Assembly. Unfortunately, it is too late for a commission to be set up because, as I have already said, this is legally unacceptable. However, an investigation into Mercator's sale will, of course, be initiated and there is no reason to fear that the sale process would not be taken under scrutiny. In the event of any irregularities in the procedure, the responsibility of the holders of public powers will also be established, normally as in all other cases which the Commission will consider. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and, of course, the opposition [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u147	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u148	Right and duty - I conclude - to cooperate. [[...]] Why does he want to avoid it, but of course it's not a matter of proposalants, but he has to take credit for it? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u149	Please, Mrs. Beblarov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I have a procedural proposal. Indeed, from this last debate, there is no replica here presented by Mr Kovacic, and it turns out that he is misleading us and the public in the sense of how he is acting, by what procedures the investigative commission, after which it is established, is conducting. When quoting Article 19 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, he quoted that article as referring to the fact that, unless otherwise specified, the jurisdiction of the court under this law is the court of first instance in Ljubljana. And then the second paragraph says, "If the Law on Parliamentary Investigation does not explicitly stipulate that the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act apply, the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act may be applied mutatis mutandis." He said that this law also stipulated that it was not possible to set up two commission of inquiry at the same time. That's not true. See, already in Article 2, which states: "If a criminal case is already under way, this is not an obstacle to the exercise of parliamentary investigation under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly." So this law tells us that at the same time they can run criminal proceedings before a court and a parliamentary inquiry in the National Assembly. And I would only ask that if a representative of the legislature could come and tell us: in the interests of Members, in the interest of the decision at today's meeting of the National Assembly and in the interest of real public information, what we are doing here. Not everyone can bring some sub-item in a sentence, in a certain provision of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and refer to it and point out that he speaks as an expert in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Please, that's already more than funny, it's miserable, and please, let's take some time and invite those who can tell us about these things in a credible, credible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much. A lot of things have been said today. It is difficult to assess what is right or wrong, although it could apply Article 66, which states: If I assess that a specific legal question needs to be resolved at the meeting itself, I can call on the representatives of the legislative and legal services to give an oral opinion at the meeting. Of course, a representative of the legislative and legal service may require an appropriate time to draw up such an opinion. I will decide to continue despite this comment with the meeting. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u152	Mr Vice President, I think this is the wrong decision. The fifth paragraph of Article 66 is very clear. I think that this afternoon we are listening to a whole lot of political disqualifications and interpretations of legal opinions by so-called lawyers who are completely contrary to what has been said in some opinions of the legislative and legal service. In its first opinion, at the request of 39 Members, the legislative and legal service said that it was not specific, that it was not clear in its purpose and, of course, at the same time, that opinion, at the request of 31 Members, said that it was complete. The legal and legal service - not so-called lawyers, Mr Kovacič - has, of course, given it in writing. And only after the legislative and legal opinion was given at our request did the question of complementarity, of course. So I would ask you, Mr President, to assess, however, that today we are discussing a very important legal act and that from the debate that follows, which we have been listening to all day, which is actually a political condemnation in advance, as if we are already listening to the 39-member report on what they want in this parliamentary inquiry, to put it in a reasonable way. Reasonable frameworks can, of course, help us to resolve the legislative and legal services when certain legal issues arise under the provisions of Article 66. The legislative and legal service has put a number of opinions on the procedure itself, some opinions were given even one hour before the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, when it was in the interest of the President of the National Assembly that he was confirmed that Mr Tanko had finally duly copied from the parliamentary inquiry of the 31 Members, what was necessary to say about the certainty of the requirements. I would very much like to ask that we have heard different opinions from so-called lawyers here, and therefore I believe that it is only credible for the legislature to deliver a legal opinion, as requested by my colleague, Mr Lovtijar Bebler. And your decision not to call for legal and legislative services is not appropriate. It's not appropriate. You yourself have found that we have a debate that is far from the content and the opinion of the legislative and legal service would help us to put it in a reasonable framework. So please reconsider your decision. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I'll think about it. Mr. Tanko, you have the floor. Excuse me? Yes, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I would suggest to my colleagues from the Liberal Democracy that they read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which was written in your case, your submission. The opinion was drawn up by the constitutional lawyer, the external advisor of the National Assembly, Dr Miro Cerar, who, after all, is also the son of the Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy Party, so that there would be no suspicion of any subjectivity. - Please leave me alone, then you can discuss it further. - And under point D of the opinion it is stated: "On the same subject of an investigation it is not permissible to order two parliamentary investigations, since this would violate the principle of trust in law or the principle of legal certainty - in brackets - [[Predictability and reliability of the law]] "as an integral part of the rule of law referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution. The following is also stated in point D below: "even if the second request is submitted before a parliamentary inquiry is made on the basis of the first request made, it is necessary to determine in the above terms to what extent the requirements are overlapped. However, despite the fact that there are two fundamentally equivalent constitutional rights of two equivalent applicants in this case, the initial request must be recognised as predominant in the sense that, in the case of partial or comprehensive overlap between the contents of both matters, the parliamentary investigation is certainly determined on the basis of the initial requirement of the principle of the time-priority of the exercise of justice. Only then will the possibility or necessity of introducing a parliamentary inquiry be examined with another request submitted. And even when we discussed this subject at the college, Dr. Miro Cerar made it quite clear that the first request made by 39 Members fully sums up the matter from your request both in terms of content - writes everything in the opinion - as well as in explanation - and also stated that in fact everything that was proposed by your request has been fully summed up. Thus, I see no particular reason in this part to discuss anything else. Otherwise, I would have responded, Mr Squeakl, to be more cautious in your opinion as regards the insults of fellow Members in the National Assembly. Me from your request or [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We didn't copy anything. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Time's up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u156	15 seconds to go. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u157	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u158	No, I've got 15 seconds. We summed up what was imposed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Procedural? Mr. Potts, you're just about to take your word for it. I'll give it to you. Here you go, please. What do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u160	Mr President, I would ask that when you gave Mr Tank procedurally to give him at least five seconds to tell him what his procedural proposal is. Our procedural proposal is very clear: instead of Mr Tanko reading to us here what the opinion of the legal and legislative service is, and this has been drawn up, I would suggest and we have proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which does not provide that, if Members request the opinion of the legislative and legal service, the leader of the largest parliamentary group should read it. This opinion shall be delivered by a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service invited to give an oral opinion. For Mr Tanko is not an authorised representative of the legislative and legal service, or I am wrong, and this has become in the meantime. I would therefore like to ask the President: Mr Tanko has not explained his procedural proposal; he has only read some part of the opinion, which just means that there is obviously a need on the part of the ruling coalition to hear the opinion of the legislative and legal service. And we propose that, in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5, also because of the need for Mr Tanko to read the right things from the opinion of the legislative and legal service, you give the possibility - we have made a procedural proposal and to follow it - and on this basis we will come to the opinion that will be given here. Indeed, Mr Tanko has forgotten to read a very important sentence in all these opinions, and this is the first sentence in an opinion written on 27 October for your opinion that the request made by the 39 Members group is too broad in terms of purpose and that it goes beyond the limits of the Commission's competence as such. Mr Tanko, on the basis of this opinion, Mr Sugar should reject your request from 27 October. The opinion on our request was given correctly. I know that you have the President of the National Assembly and that you influence, even represent yourself on behalf of the legislative and legal service here, and that you have all the political power to establish only the parliamentary investigation that you will be conducting on your side. However, neither you nor the President of the National Assembly nor the National Assembly can fully take over constitutional rights. And that's what this is all about. We do not deny that you do not have a parliamentary commission of inquiry, that no one will challenge you; but perhaps you have woken up as an opposition party. We deny you, however, that you do not allow an independent parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate Mr Janša, who has done 29 billion damage to Mercator's business. This was our request and I propose that we get an opinion from the legislative and legal service.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Despite the fact that the proposal made by Mrs Beblereva is not directly related to what we are dealing with today and that the President's College has already concluded - a request for an updated agenda could also be required - and even though I have read this article to you, it is somewhat difficult to decide. I will therefore suspend the meeting in 15 minutes and consult with the Legal Service and give my opinion. I'm adjourning the session. We'll continue at 4:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we continue our adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. Given that the suspension has been decided by the President to consult with the legal service, we would ask those who have asked the legislative and legal services questions to make the question very clear once again, the legislative and legal service is accompanying us, and will then answer all the questions raised after the discussion has ended - those that are clearly set. For the legal and legislative service does not have a clear question and I would like to ask you once again to repeat the question. Mrs. Beblarov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u163	Mr President, in times of technology, technology and similar things, of course, it is not difficult to find from a magnetogram the exact question that I posed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u164	No magnetogram available yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u165	- below the content - but in the next two minutes - it will be accurately shown what we talked about and how we talked about. [[...]] I had a procedural proposal based on an assessment that there are clearly many unresolved issues concerning the opinion of the legislative and legal commission in the part where it said that two investigative commissions with the same content could not be held in the national assembly at the same time. I also talked about this earlier in my debate that when you made your decision as you did, you referred to the opinion of the legislative and legal commission in the sense that there could not be a trial in the same case at the same time in two different forums, and I objected that what we are doing here is not a criminal procedure. A parliamentary inquiry is a process, "sui generis" - about this, of course, we know who we know - and that in this sense it is not possible to refer to what you referred to, namely "not bis and go". And even if we could make a substantive reference to this, I would argue that this is not your jurisdiction. This authority does not give you the Constitution, nor the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, nor the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, nor the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Therefore, you are not the one who could assess whether the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry under Article 93 of the Constitution can be placed on the agenda, since this constitutional provision is clear, says that in the event that one third of the Members are required to establish such a parliamentary inquiry, the National Assembly is obliged to order the establishment of such a parliamentary inquiry. And then we discussed this further, and this is also the content of our case, which we addressed to both courts yesterday, namely, the Law on Parliamentary Investigation does not deal with questions when they were set up at the same time or when two competing investigative committees were set up at the same time, and it does not exclude the possibility that two such investigative commissions were set up simultaneously, whose subject matter is overlapped in some part. Moreover, to the debate today, Mr Kovacic, who claimed that two investigative committees could not be set up at the same time, I read Article 2 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, which says very clearly: "If in some case a criminal procedure is already under way, it is not an obstacle that a parliamentary investigation would not be carried out in the framework of the competence of the National Assembly." From which I conclude that two investigative commissions at the same time may or may not be possible. From this conclusion, there is a whole range of relevant legal questions to which we need answers. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u166	Mrs. Beblereva, time for a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u167	That's why I asked the representatives to come. I'm sorry, Mr President. You told me to explain exactly what the question is. [[...]] And that's what I'm doing now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u168	But within the framework of a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u169	That is why I have proposed that a representative of the legislative and legal service should come here and answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you, too. After the discussion, we will be joined by the Legal and Legislative Service and will answer these questions. I give my word to Mr. Potsch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the content of the debate so far, although I do not expect to receive any confirmation or any change in content, except as long as we are running out of time, I would like to stress the following. In our parliamentary group, we are not even thinking about having any doubts about the determination of the parliamentary inquiry proposed today by 39 Members. Anyone who claims something else is making up, telling the truth, and completely changing the facts. Secondly, we are convinced that the same right should also be guaranteed to 31 Members and Members, and that there is nowhere in the material previously written, including the legal and legislative services, to draw any conclusions that would suggest anything else. Nor did you, Mr President, have any support for this, unless you wanted to finish reading the materials prepared by the legislature. However, as follows, I do not expect, even though I greatly appreciate the proposal made by my colleague Darja Lavtijar Bebler and your decision that the service will come, in the opinion of any of us who have different political interests, to agree with him. Unfortunately, we are used to doing so that everyone reads exactly what is appropriate to him, and based on that work also legal conclusions. That is why I must say that I am sorry and that I am sometimes uncomfortable, and that I am sometimes ashamed, as a lawyer, of how this national assembly works, and of how the leadership of this national assembly does not ensure that it does otherwise. I am also thinking about you and your actions, because the discussion between us, what does it mean, what does it not mean, is not here because we are a national assembly and a political body, and think that I will convince Mr Tank, Sok or he whether we understand or not a member of the constitution or some link between the articles - we will not, because we have our own political interest to do so. And since Mr Tanko has read, and I have this right because I have a discussion, the position of the service, I would kindly ask him for a magnetogram that this same document, and I also ask you, Mr President, are listening to the end, Mr Tanko, "if the National Assembly, within the scope of the possibility afforded by the second and third paragraphs of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, with the agreement of the applicant for the first request, the first-signed Jože Tanko, would complement this by considering, in its context, the investigation into the sale of KAD's shares and SOD's shares in Mercator as a matter of priority" - this is first in the case of a parliamentary inquiry that was determined only on the basis of the first request - "and also taking into account the evidence from the second requirement, then the right of investors of the second requirements would be legally realized already in the case of a parliamentary inquiry which was determined only on the basis of the first." Further, much clearer: "in the event that investors of the first request would not have adapted the time dynamics and evidence proposals" - they would not have adapted the dynamics and evidentiary proposals in that way - "as with regard to the sale of KAD's and SOD's shares in Mercator, the second request put forward would then lead to a substantially different legal qualification" - to a substantially different legal qualification, and further - "in this case, taking into account the overall context of each of the requirements just submitted, this time dynamic shows as an extremely important, essential element of the parliamentary inquiry which cannot be ignored. Therefore, if the applicants of the first requirement in this respect do not adequately supplement or adapt the above-mentioned requirements, then the National Assembly should also order a parliamentary inquiry on the basis of another requirement." Read to the end and who can read this text correctly in any way other than that the second requirement is not included in the first, because this essential time component is also not taken into account, because it is explicit that Mercator must be the first person, if not, to have completely different legal qualifications, such a text reads me wrong or deliberately abuses it. And the rest of you can tell me something else, and I've read this text. And it is typical for you, dear colleagues, that you usually read the first part of the sentence or the text to the extent it suits you. I've read it almost to the end, what's in the end doesn't seem essential to me anymore. Therefore, I ask you nicely, there was no basis, but there was absolutely no basis for you to read the opinion of the legislative and legal service in good faith, but not through political glasses and political interests, so that the request for a parliamentary inquiry of 31 Members would not be put on the agenda or that you, Mr President, would also try to appeal, advise a similar first-signed group to accept Mercator not only by chance between the thirties and the beginning of the hearing in 2006, but in a very specific manner. That's the first one. Second. I hope that I have not overlooked, I went right from the point of view of the possibility of applying and quoting the 31st Article of the Constitution, which explicitly speaks of a criminal legal principle, to look at the entire views of the legislative and legal service. I found no reference to this principle, and I did not find any reference to Article 31. Perhaps in some oral interviews he was explained - perhaps I allow this option - he is not in writing. And with many, including constitutional lawyers, I have spoken and said, this is a completely different matter. For this reason, at this point, to say that from the principle of "not twice the same thing" or Latin "not bis and go", which all of us who are one year jusa - well, first year not, second year, because in the second year we had the criminal right - we did, but we know this principle, and we did not forget it, because it is really such a established principle. I'm just saying it again, like I said. This principle applies to criminal law, and those who read the half constitution and investigative commissions are considered to be judicial authorities, do not even represent the basis of the jussu, and I do not resent it, only then do not talk about it. Then let him express his political position, but do not talk about making similar comparisons from investigative commissions, such as judicial proceedings. No, away from it! It has nothing to do with judicial proceedings, except to protect witnesses, experts, investigators and the like, so that the Commission of Inquiry may not in any way require them to do things that would be inappropriate. And already in the process of investigation committees, human rights are protected. That is why this law is regulated and there is no need to protect them in particular. And take the view that human rights will be violated if someone has to come to the commission of inquiry - this is the wrong world! This is the wrong world, then let's end it. However, if they are for us to have them, then it is necessary to work in the commissions of inquiry so that these rights are not violated; the cauldrons, the guards, and for that they are adopted in law. And finally, let me say that there have been many, many things said today, many things that, at least for me, do not belong to this content. There have been grave insults and accusations against people, and it seems that many groups of Members and Members are responding in this way. If we wanted to ensure the correctness of mutual treatment, the presidents would have a lot of work to do. I know this job would be hard, responsible, unkind. Only if it can be unkind to 31 Members and prevent them from exercising constitutional rights could it be unkind to an individual Member to warn him: "Lord, I ask you not to talk about people, about how they have come to the property, what they have done, where it is clear, illegal and similar, what has been said in this Chamber today. Let him conclude, as far as I am concerned and I am very well aware of this, and also my parliamentary group, we know that a parliamentary investigation will be set up today. And that's right, it's in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I expect you to be smart - and I am consciously using this term - and you will find that it is right to establish a parliamentary inquiry on the basis of the request of the 31 Members and that we run it at a certain time frame or similar. What will happen to me, and also in the light of the statements made in this debate, in the magnetogram of the debate, I have explicitly written down Mr Sok's position - now that I am speaking as a Member, I can quote him: "This would be - to conclude - illogical for those who made it possible, who had 12 years in the hands of the scissors and canvas, to become investigators all of a sudden." And only in the case of one sale, in the case of Mercator. It seems illogical to Mr Sok that 31 Members and Members have the same rights as 39 others. He can judge in which case it is possible to set up an investigative commission, in which I, Mr Sok, do not fully understand you and accept you politically that you do not want this Mercator investigative commission to be established to be led by those who, in your opinion, have ruled for 12 years, even though they are elected Members and even though they are now in opposition. In view of the parliamentary investigation and the functioning of the National Assembly, this position is unacceptable. And you're the one who's making it impossible for the parliamentary investigation to be formed. And Mr President has followed this logic and has made this parliamentary inquiry impossible by its decisions. I think that, I would say, is bad that it is not good, but once again, I expect you to find that another parliamentary investigative committee should also be formed. I know that the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation have provisions that will still allow you to always have the necessary majority in the parliamentary investigative committee, perhaps even if we can never have a third that can itself propose evidence and that will not be possible. And I know for sure what we all know that the Commission of Inquiry is preparing opinions and proposals, preparing a report. The National Assembly shall be the one who adopts this report or does not adopt it in one context or with separate opinions. And even if two Commissions were to work at the same time and even if two Commissions came to different conclusions, it would be the only thing that could be disputed from the individual's point of view that two Commissions must come before and answer the correct questions, because if the Commission of Inquiry were to be properly guided, these questions should be correct. That's all it is. What would be at the end of the conclusion would be one national assembly itself, because we no longer have them, thank God, and in this one national assembly we could ensure that even in the event of different time-consuming conclusions we would have a joint debate and joint decision, that is, what you are saying is not to be and cannot do is a blah, blah, political goal that you want to achieve in any way. I advise you, political objectives should not be over indisputable legal facts, which must be taken equally into account for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I'm glad it's my turn right after Mr. Imp. And I must say that the only thing I deeply agree with him is that what we hear is not what suits us. And that goes for all of us, ladies and gentlemen. So you say that the commission proposed by the opposition in the event of Mercator's investigation must be set up immediately, and you also agree to set up a commission proposed by 39 Members. I ask you what is the point of setting up two committees if we are to all examine what is stated in the proposal for this Decision. And for the first time, is the sale of the share of KAD d.d. and SODs of shareholders in companies where their shares were carried out transparently and in accordance with all laws and regulations? We all agree. Secondly, whether the sale of the share of KAD and SOD in companies where their share was made economically, in particular the question of how the selling price was determined should be answered. We all agree. Did the sale of KAD's and SOD's share in companies where they had their share result in damage to social property and at what amount? And then there's the fourth conclusion. Responsibilities of holders of public powers to the injurious sale of the share of KAD and SOD in companies where their share occurred and what were the motives and backgrounds of the sale. We all agree. And I am sure that when the Commission is formed, it can also determine in the evidence decision when it adopts it that Mercator is the first to be investigated. He can determine that. The Commission may adopt such a decision, in particular in the light of certain circumstances that occurred later when we requested it - this is the disclosure of the contract with which Mercator is established [[Under the slogans, otherwise they say no, but some of us are sure that yes]] parked shares in the main property of the State, i.e. in Triglav, at a certain price and with a certain contract, so that these shares can be redeemed by the Mercator administration at the same price. So there is no reason for the Commission not to address this issue as the first. And today, there was quite something that we suggested that the Commission, when it was set up, do. Furthermore, you, Mr Potrč, say that the Commission of Inquiry does not have the competence of the judicial authorities. Yeah, who said that? No one actually claimed that. Nobody said that. We're all aware that he doesn't. However, to have some competences in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Commission of Inquiry, in accordance with the competences of the investigating authorities, this is undeniable. The Commission may invite witnesses, and may also hear these witnesses, a witness who can also bring them before the Commission and so on. These are individual actions carried out by the investigating authorities, which can also be used by this commission. It is said not to lay the messengers in the mouth of that which no one has claimed, nor that which no one has defended. It is certain that such a commission cannot issue a prison warrant or anything like that. But I'd like to point out something completely different. In early November, when intensive negotiations were held on the composition of the new ruling coalition, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development published an analysis of the Slovenian economy entitled "Strategy for Slovenia". And one of its main findings was that Slovenia still owns an over-average share of ownership. Among other new members of the Union, Slovenia had Slovenia in 2003 [[since this report was for 2003]] minimum share of the private sector. This is the conclusion of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The report notes that the process of privatising state property in Slovenia has fallen far behind in the last two years, despite the fact that the National Assembly has adopted a programme to accelerate the privatisation of state property. Analysts from this bank have pointed out that our country should take into account, in particular, the beneficial privatisation effects on greater productivity and competitiveness of enterprises that increase the well-being of the entire population when privatising state assets. And, look, when the new government actually went on to do that, there was a scream and a scream about the first sale. So all of a sudden, not all of the sales that have been made, but the problem has only arisen in this one. And, of course, in the ruling coalition, we simply cannot accept this and why would we also, but why should we accept it, that only one is being investigated. So, we demand that if you have already wanted to look at the remaining sales, despite the fact that Mr Rob here today said that for each of these investigations, 83 and 84 listed companies, which we have then completed in this proposal, it will take six months for each such review to be carried out. I'm asking if it took six months to sell, too? Of course not. It sold quickly, I don't know how much it took to sell, but six months certainly not, because Mr Rob then calculated that it would take 41 years for these 83 cases to travel through the desert into the promised land. 41 years old, I don't think I know where that came from. But when it was actually sold so quickly in a couple of years, you've created in this country certain capital barons that now have billions, and now you're supposed to be dealing with it for 41 years, where it's from, in fact, when sparrows on the roof chirp, where it came from. Therefore, what needs to be found in this matter and what this Commission can quickly find out in Mercator's case is a claim which has also been made here, which is that the buyers of these shares acted as connected persons. So, that's what the Commission has to find and if it finds out, then these statements are true, but if it finds out that Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško did not act as connected persons, then they are, I have to say that I am not some stock expert and so on, for the stock exchange, but if this does not apply, then your claims about the 30 billion, about the 3000 flats, on the apartments are obviously very well known, because you have had an excellent expert in this area, Mr. Owen, and then there are these allegations and the constant repetition of one and the same things that I should say to this other than I can say, they will prove to be unjustifiable, but it is true that if one and the same lies are repeated in the public, then also in some way it becomes the truth. And another statement by Mr. Potts. Indeed, he found that, given that the ruling coalition had proposed this commission, that then the ruling coalition would also lead and that this had not yet happened, that is not true, because I, myself, from the notes that exist here, had sought out that commission in case of research into the sale of weapons on a proposal, the opposition proposed it, but was then led by a ruling coalition, in particular Mr Moze, who, on every occasion, also likes to renew this story from this commission in this National Assembly. Let me get this straight. I think that after last year's elections, when Forum 21 strongly supported the LDS and the United List, it was called that, and then at the elections, it turned out that a lot of people had collapsed the world, but if it hadn't happened then, of course, eventually important corporate owners would have become just Forum 21 members, and today in Slovenia they would have decided everything about our common life in this country. Thank God that didn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. About speed first. It's weak to sell very quickly. And of course that's what Mr. Janša did. In a bad hour and a half, Mercator sold and reached an agreement on ownership change in some banks and, of course, in a very important company called Delo. And we just want to answer and look for his political responsibility. You want to protect the Prime Minister and therefore you are prepared to dishonor the reputation of the entire Slovenian economic sphere and this is bad, Mr Sok. That's bad, Mr. Tanko. You had this role when you were the opposition. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You did not take advantage of this role in October. [[...]] Now don't let us examine Mr. Janša. We regret it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u176	Mr. Squeakle, it's time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u177	And we'll use all the resources to do this further. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u178	The text has a List of Discussants is concluded. [[...]] The text is also given by the representatives of the proposers. If you don't. On behalf of the candidates? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I think I have a responsibility to respond to something that has been raised in today's debate. But I will not respond specifically to what Mr Squeakl said with his performance. We're kind of used to this humble behavior, and I think it's better to say "adrem" than "ad personam". And, of course, in this form, I will not discuss. However, I must say that I am disappointed at Mrs Lavtizar Bebler's interpretation of the fact that, as a reason for the possibility of establishing two investigative committees, I referred to Article 2 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, which states that if a criminal procedure has already been instituted in some case, it is not an obstacle to the introduction of a parliamentary investigation. However, there are two different types of investigations here, but here we are talking about the same type of investigation, the parliamentary investigation, and it is clear that, of course, in a similar investigation, the same matter cannot be carried out in two investigations. This is the case in criminal proceedings, so in other proceedings and, of course, it is very clear once again that Article 19 is very clear when you say that the analogous use of criminal proceedings is only used in cases where this is explicitly recorded, such as the recruitment and interrogation of witnesses or investigators. And it is precisely this 19th article that I will read once again, in addition to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act directly applicable under this Act, that other issues which are not dealt with by it are other issues, namely that other relevant general provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act are applied mutatis mutandis. And here's the whole answer to everything we're talking about today, and what you're saying is that there's no record of that happening. Here, it says here. And when we say that someone wants to deter an investigation, it must also be made very clear that the opposition has the right and the right to participate in the commission of inquiry, to determine the actual situation and possible responsibility of the holders of public powers in the sale of state shares in Mercator. I don't understand why you don't want to. No one's defending you, then why are you talking like that? No one is holding you back from investigating the ruling coalition. How it prevents you if you do not want to participate. That's what you said. It's only obvious that you're trying to make an impression in public that someone is making something impossible for you, but you're actually making it impossible for yourself to investigate, because you've announced that you won't be involved in the investigation. You don't want any part of this. You have every opportunity to investigate, no one is delaying or defending you, so do not confuse or manipulate the public. Several Members also mentioned the former Prime Minister of Mercator. Some praised him, some praised him. I will not define myself until his success or failure. The fact is that when Mercator began to lead, he was politically set up. That's a fact. It was specifically set up by the former Prime Minister, which he himself made very clear to the Slovenian public via television. I believe that the policy that has set up the appointed gentleman has been pleased with him. I don't doubt that. However, this satisfaction cannot be objectively merciful, as policy often follows other objectives primarily ahead of economic interests. Since Mr Jankovic has now been resolved, but not politically now, it has been resolved by the owners who are companies, we well know who solved it, which certainly represent solely economic interest - purely economic interest is represented by companies and private companies represent their own private interest. And in view of that, therefore, the performance of the President of the Board is at least questionable, if not otherwise. The owners apparently found that the former president of the administration had not been as successful as some spoke, but the owners of the private economy had decided to switch. Certainly not because they want to replace a successful manager for a less successful one, but on the contrary. These are the legalities of the capital market - to be as successful as possible. Different legalities sometimes apply in politics. And then, when politics in Mercator had power, today it was gone, at the time it was setting people up, then apparently different legalities were in force. And just one more thing to conclude. When some of you said that the initiative or request for an investigation, which was subsequently rectified at the request of the legislative and legal service, was in some way in order to say that the initiative was inadequate and should therefore be practically rejected. This is the same as if we said that the initiative for the call for a referendum submitted by the Youth Party was inadequate because it had to correct its initiative and put a second, alternative, correct question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u181	Mr President, I would like to request that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 75, which states that the speaker may only speak on a matter on the agenda and on the basis of Article 76, first indent, you give an appropriate reminder to Mr Kovacic, because the subject of the debate today is not a guilty or non-criminal resolution of one of the presidents of Slovenian companies, but rather a determination of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. And, of course, Mr Kovacic, if all of this were true as you claimed, then there would be a false settlement. But it was an inviolable solution. And, Mr President, please, Mr President has used the Rules of Procedure before you, has warned Members when they talk about things that have nothing to do with today's Investigative Commission Act and have used the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I ask you kindly, because Mr Kovacič did not talk about the issue on the agenda, but he did talk about the issue that is not on the agenda, and he used false words, he deceived the Slovenian public, and he also insulted some people, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 76 - if, Mr President, you believe that the National Assembly should speak of facts, but not of insinuations - you should give him a warning. I think that would be correct in view of his debate. I myself will understand your decision in accordance with your current practice in discussing what kind of parliamentary investigation and how many we will have. In fact, if this reminder is not given, I will also consider this proof that it will be a violation of the reputation of Slovenian economists and the protection of the reputation of someone else. And today we have told you several times, we do not prevent you from establishing the commission of inquiry that you requested, we do not prevent it! We even argue that we could have had it earlier if we could, of course, write an appropriate justification. We warn you, however, that by maligning the reputation of 83 Slovenian companies, you are preventing us from investigating the cloudy reputation of the Prime Minister, Mr Janša, who has done a very bad business quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. I must say, Mr. Squeakle, that you are protesting that someone does not stick to the agenda, I am very happy. I just had to warn you a hundred times before I could warn anyone else. Today, however, the debate was very broad, the gray field was very wide, there was a lot of talk. I don't think it's necessary to sharpen now, because I should have sharpened you first. There's 25 minutes left. Is there anyone else on behalf of the motioners? The debate is not yet concluded. The speaker has the floor. If you no longer have a word, the remainder in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] On behalf of the proposer, Mr Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In fact, we have been listening to an incredible legal issue in recent times. Today I have already mentioned this famous winged woman who was once stressed by these parties from legal circles that this is a creative interpretation of the law. I think it's sad enough to refer to a creative interpretation of the law instead of referring consistently to legislation and constitution. On behalf of the creative interpretation of the law, please the President, if [[....]] [[...]] On behalf of your interpretation of the law and the creative interpretation of the law, you have allowed yourself in this country and in this national assembly a great deal. I think that the legislation and the rules of procedure relating to investigative commissions are quite clear. If there were no creative interpretation of the law, even in the courts, the President of the Commission of Inquiry would not have been convicted of punishing the only person who investigated the case, even though no judge could be held accountable for his decisions and the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act would have been applied here. This is where the president of the commission of inquiry was convicted. But no one else can be, and a judge who refuses to investigate genocide, which you support, cannot answer for that. And, of course, in this context, I have to protest in some way over this distastefulness that, with a number of business and legal and procedural and media options, which I think are normal and parliamentary, you have used the structure and have been accused by the President of the National Assembly, on the grounds that he acted in accordance with the legal lines and legislation. I suggest you take the lead in the pursuit of genocide, but not the obstruction, but you are consciously against it. And it's very distasteful and offensive to support crime, and on the other hand, it's in business loops. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u184	Quiet, please. Only Jerovšek has the word and please Jerovšek, the item of the agenda. Mr Jerovšek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u185	I'm sorry, I'm so explaining your support for attacking you, you've been talking about interpreting the minister, I want an interpretation of that case. I want some interpretations because some very important things have to be cleaned up in Slovenia. And again, so I'm going to move away from this topic, but I can't possibly understand this duality in criminal matters. I can't, in the cases you're bringing to court, in fact, you don't even know which court your indictment should be, and yet you're demonstrating it to the public, and I think you're downgrading the reputations and rank of this national council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr. Jerovšek. And Mr. Starman on behalf of the motioners. Mr. Starman. Mr Squeakl, none of your procedural proposals have been in line with the rules of procedure. Please, on behalf of the proposaler, Mr Starman has the floor. Mr. Starman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable. I would like to think on this subject, much has been said about how sales were made in the past period of the shares of the SOD and the KAD, I think, perhaps something else would be added to this topic. The fact is, however, that there may be a greater problem in how and at what cost certain companies' shares have been sold. In why and why so few were sold, why there was no sale. I think that here, from the point of view of the business of the CAD, it might be a lot more clever that some shares would have been sold a long time ago, especially those that bring very bad. This would be an economic activity, I would say, in companies, especially in large economic systems, if we look at achieving results, they are extremely, extremely poor. We did not sell because the authorities wanted, of course, control over the operations of these companies and perhaps some benefit from this control. I'd just like to give you a few details. Mercator, we're talking about Mercator, Mercator made 6.6 billion profits in the last year, in 94 in the realisation of 376 billion tolars, which is 1.7% of traffic. For example, just a comparison, Spar created at 103 billion tolls for, profit by 3.6 billion tolars, which is actually much more. I also wonder about other companies where the state has its fingers in between. Petrol, for example. Petrol made 6.6 billion profits in 370 billion tolars and 1.9% in realisation. Perhaps you would mention these big companies that are wonderfully building highways, one Primorje, SCT has created, for example, 600 million tolars of profits, 60 billion traffic, Primorje 300 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u188	He doesn't interrupt a speaker with procedural questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u189	The results are extremely poor and I do not know how this is possible for these state-owned companies, in those where we have their shares, to be so wonderfully poor, to operate poorly. [[...]] Therefore, my problem could be more in why the state did not step down and stop interfering with business operations and, of course, did not sell those shares long ago when it could, because it could sell them. As far as the research commission itself is concerned, there may be scope of work, but I do not support it, and of course I think that I hope it will start work as quickly as possible, so that it can change the title well and determine the legality and economy of the state property business or management in general. And to see if we've always done business economically or not. In any case, I think it is very important, and as soon as possible, it is important that the state actually ceases to interfere in its business operations, must ensure that they work as successfully as possible and sell their next shares as quickly as possible and withdraw from this circle. Once again, I think the bigger problem is what was sold for what was not sold or traded for shares in those companies that bring much more. I would only mention two more, it was mentioned here several times, the sale of the bank or Lek, of course, as the buyer would much rather give the money for Lek. We know that it generates almost 30 billion profits and it would be much faster to return this than this, and the stock exchange comparison of course, and those profits, as we said about them, are not real about these acquisition premiums. The bank also generated much greater profits and is an investment made by a foreigner in this bank, of course reimbursed much, much earlier than in Mercator's case. It is right to take a closer look at the economic elements of these businesses and actually make it as quickly as possible for the state to withdraw from the economy, because in my opinion the general well-being of all Slovenians would be greater if the state did not have, or the para-State funds would have no share or direct impact on the business of these companies. We have opted for a market economy, for some form of capitalism, where we have said that capital will take over after the greatest possible creation of new value, unfortunately this is because, as I said before, inappropriate ownership, which has not yet ended, has not happened, and now we are in some things when we are formally in a market economy, otherwise we are doing as we did before, with very bad effects and bad results. I think it will be necessary for the state to actually deal with management as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you. The proposer still has time. Two of them raised their hand. Mr Grimes and then Mr. Sok. Here you go. Procedurally, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u191	I don't think the time at the traffic light matches the scheduled time. By the end of the debate there is 16,01, now, a minute, and you, when you look together at the time of the parties, which is still available to the parliamentary groups plus the proposaler is three times more. So I think there's something wrong with time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u192	As I know, I asked the accompanying service, in fact, it's been spent a lot of time on procedural issues and that's why it doesn't add up. Mrs. Pechanova. The applicant will also have less time to do so, because the whole time it is concluded, the debate will be closed. Mrs. Pechanova. Procedurally, Mrs. Pecanova raised her hand. You too will get Mr Anderlič, allow me, Mrs Pečanova has raised her hand earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u193	I would only ask very briefly, Mr President, that I think it is procedural that you are a little more objective when you listen to Members when they discuss. What's happening today is more than anything. You are completely subjective and make comments or stop Members, only those who are not your own. Mr Starman, who spoke about ten other things only about the commission of inquiry, but no, gentlemen before him also did not talk about certain genocides, which I do not know what they have to do with whether Mr Prime Minister might have committed genocide when he sold Mercator's shares or something like that. Therefore, please be objective and stop Members when they do not talk about things that are the subject of individual points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u194	Again, Mrs. Pechanova. Everything was talked about, most of all, about the damage and how the President of the National Assembly is doing incorrectly, which is of course not a topic, is not the agenda item, but I have not interrupted anyone so far. And I'd be unjust if I stopped from now on. Mr. Anderlich, please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u195	I am speaking to this word, but only for one reason, so that next week or next month, when we have a discussion on the Rules of Procedure, we can record this precedent that was set here today. In fact, it is not possible to give six, seven speakers on behalf of the proponents just like that. But when the list that we have here expires, you give the floor at the end to the proposer and the proposer or one on behalf of the proposers tells their opinion and then the matter is concluded in the general debate and invite who else would like to discuss it. And so we have the right of Members, as well as of proponents, not to repeat itself indefinitely, or to prolong the discussion on the topic of the proposers, which are the last mentioned. Here I am talking about the paper that is listed and you will be able to verify, in all the acts that we have had this year, I will not say anything in return, because it has been so bad, because you have now established things in a new way, but believe me, until now, Mr President, it has always been the case that all those who have been registered by the parliamentary groups have come forward, or not, they have done their discussion, and in this case there was a group of Members, or the government, and there was a word in one person and once. And when this first speaker has a word, time has passed and you, as chairman, or Mr. Klavor, or Mr. Pavliha, or Mr. Pache, have to serve those provisions that say: The general debate is over and now please, who else wants to discuss, because we have some time left? And then the hands go up and the time is divided again. Please, just because we will have a discussion on the business committee so that we can understand how this provision should not be abused, I volunteered. Otherwise I wouldn't have called. Please, if now, it's good 10 minutes, we're in the end anyway, but you're going ahead with this procedure. Otherwise, the rules of procedure are a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u196	Mr. Anderlich, you're right. By the way, I've now looked back at the lists and there are three, three names announced as proponents, and none of them are on the list when I give my word. I'm sorry. I didn't know those were the other names they were answering. I confess the guilt, as a proposaler, I should give the floor to the three persons who were also performing in the beginning, namely Mr Tanko, Mr Sok and Mr Janc. I'm sorry I missed that, I admit it. The only three on the list are Mr Sok. I suggest he's still talking. I'm sorry, really, you were right. Mr. Sok, please, on behalf of the motioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. First, let me say that it is good that RTV does not tolerate this session because I do not know what our citizens and citizens would think on all these procedural and other proposals, which are not procedural at all. So if I continue on behalf of the applicants. Contrary to the LDS' long-standing rule, of course the SD also helped, the new ruling coalition announced a gradual ownership withdrawal from the economy between the fundamental objectives of the coalition agreement. The Coalition Treaty states that it is imperative to limit the impact of policy on the functioning of Slovenian companies and to implement the withdrawal of the State from the role of owner. Theoretical and empirical studies show that state-owned companies are less efficient and that the interconnectivity of policies and economies is actually hampering economic growth. In the part of the coalition contract aimed at the gradual and transparent withdrawal of the country from the economy, the government notes that the policy affects businesses through two levers, indirectly through parastatal funds, such as KAD and SOD, and directly through ownership in certain companies such as banks, Telekom, railways and others. In the Coalition Treaty, we pay particular attention to the disposal of ownership shares in the para-state funds, the SOD and the KAD. The sale of state ownership in them is planned by the new government through international calls and through the help of respected international financial intermediaries, with the aim of reaching the highest possible price. In these transactions, it will ensure a level playing field for domestic and foreign investors. The policy of KAD, which does not have a time limit on the duration of its mission, will be based on a gradual withdrawal from Slovenian companies, while the SOD must withdraw earlier, because the function of the SOD in our country is different from that of the KAD; the SOD must provide compensation for the denationalisation proceedings. In the 2004-2008 government mandate, a majority and key owners will be formed in the largest companies through the sale of state ownership in KAD and SOD, which will maintain the situation in the longer term and thus have a decisive impact on the future economic and political image of the country. In this context, of course, the sale of the shares of the SOD and the KAD in Mercator, which has become the subject of a dispute, could also be said between the position and the opposition, or if you want between the opposition and the position. The result at this point is the establishment of this commission, which will review this transaction, but not only this, but also some of the others mentioned in this attached proposal of the decision, but will again, I repeat and believe, the Commission, when it will also be set up by an evidentiary decision and the order of companies which will look at them and identify the background, and possibly damage, this order will slightly change and actually do what the opposition proposes, is said to start Mercator, the sale in Mercator will be reviewed as the first transaction made. I think that at this time, in the course of this government, what we have written in the coalition contract will also actually be done to the maximum extent possible, and therefore it is also right that we get this commission, which will contribute to making sales transparent, transparent and that the country will last as long as possible. In fact, it will be very wrong to do what has already been felt here today and what some opposition colleagues have announced that because of this fact, because we will not set up a commission to review only Mercator, but a commission to look at these matters more broadly that you will not participate in this commission. I think it would be a shame if we all have the same goals and if we want to achieve what we are dealing with, then, of course, I invite you to cooperate constructively with this committee and to do what citizens and citizens expect us to do together. So, if in the past some mistakes have been made in this area, we can work them out together and ensure in the future that these and similar errors will no longer occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Sok. I would now like to ask the legislature to answer the questions raised during the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the issues raised, which are intended to be unclear or to arise in relation to our opinions that have been put forward in the course of the hearing, both the first and the second requirements, I ask for a half-hour break to draw up an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thank you. I'm breaking up with this. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] The proposal is to go to the next point, and we'll be back in half an hour at this point. I am putting to the vote this proposal to start with the next item on the agenda, this is point 19 and after the end of point 19 we return to this point. We're voting. Forty-seven present, all in favor. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is on the exploratory proposal of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004. The proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Yeah, but now it's a problem. There's no government representative. I'm calling on government representatives, sorry, the government has no introduction and we can proceed. In particular, the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances, as the parent labour body, has addressed the proposal for a final account. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, Mag. To Milan M. Squill for presentation of the report of the Commission. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u201	Mr Secretary of State, sir, whoever is the President, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to make an introduction to the proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004. First of all, allow me to express my surprise that the government that forwarded this pile of material to the National Assembly does not consider it necessary to introduce it into the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004. That is why I am forced, as President of the Commission, to make an appropriate introduction to the proposal for a final account. We discussed the proposal at our 4th urgent meeting, on 17.10.2005, and at our 15th regular meeting, on 10 November 2005. As President of the Commission, I myself have proposed to the presidents of the working bodies, prior to the hearing of the Commission, that, due to the scope of the material, work bodies, each for their own area of work, should also be able to deal with the proposals in each of the departments of the final accounts for 2004. I regret to conclude that the presidents of the working bodies, with the exception of the one led by the opposition, did not hold this debate. They did not discuss the content of spending more than 1,700 billion taxpayers' money. This is particularly interesting because you want to discuss everything else. The only body that dealt with this for each area was the commission I run. We have discussed the scope of the work of the Court of Auditors, the State Audit Commission and the Budget Supervisory Office and have identified what could also be found for many others, that there was no speciality in the implementation of these three supervisory institutions in 2004. At the hearing of the Committee on Budgetary Control on 10 November 2005, when we considered the final account in its entirety, we found, with the representatives of the Court of Auditors, who were not invited today because of the procedure, that an opinion was issued with reservation for the 2004 state budget statements and a few opinions with reservations, some negative opinions, six, and one positive opinion, on the revision of the correct implementation of the State budget for individual budgetary users. It's especially good that [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u202	Please, a little more peace in the hall. Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u203	Thank you. [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u204	I suggest you do informal conversations outside the hall, where there is enough room and even less acoustics. Please don't make any phone calls! Mag. Exercise, I suggest you proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your warnings to the Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u206	Mr. Anderlich, you too, please! Just let Mr. Squeakle speak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u207	It is very important that the Court of Auditors, in addition to considering the report on the implementation of the objectives and tasks, also assess for 18 sub-programmes implemented in 17 auditors how the objectives and tasks of the budget have been met under each sub-programme. This is particularly important because the new government claims that the budget will now be prepared for a new one. We have adopted some of the conclusions and conclusions presented in the report at the Commission's sitting itself after consideration, of which the conclusions of the Commission are of course important. In doing so, I would like to say that we have proposed to the Ministry of Finance to draw up a summary of the specific part of the final budget account, a summary of these 3,000 pages, for consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly, in order to be able, of course, to carry out an appropriate examination. This decision of the Commission has not been implemented. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia if the conclusions of the National Assembly are not relevant to it? The last thing we did on the committee was to take a decision to propose to the National Assembly that, following the debate, the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 should be adopted, due to the relevant opinion of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor to present the SLS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. On the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, we have followed in detail the reports of the Government, the individual budget consumers and some major substantive comments on it. Let me say at the outset that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for a final account for 2004. We have considered the proposal on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, and I must point out that the large, as I have already said in the introduction, issues raised in the final accounts or audits, were not to be observed. It is satisfactory that inflation and budget deficits were lower than planned. In the future, the country must strive to reduce public financial expenditure and to reduce the deficit in the state budget. I think that the current government is following this required objective well with its actions. In doing so, let me point out that the problem of drawing on European funds, which is at a very low level in Slovenia, has been repeatedly addressed. In 2004, we managed to realise only 55% of the possible European funds. In this regard, we should urgently do something. On the one hand, we are constantly faced with insufficient resources, and on the other hand we are not taking advantage of the opportunities we have as a member of the European Union. Of course, it is necessary to take into account all the views of the Court of Auditors, the Office for Budgetary Control and the State Audit Commission, and to minimise future errors that are still taking place and to ensure the full legality of spending on public funds. It is noted that certain errors in the previous financial years are being phased out, but the Court's opinions are still very different, even negative, unfortunately, and many opinions with reservations, so we appeal to all ministries and other budgetary consumers to implement budgets more precisely, in accordance with the law and other regulations, in the hope that the next financial period of 2005 will be even more successful than it was in 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Peca is next on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u211	Respected presence, the proposal for the 2004 final budget account, the item that we are currently considering, as a rule, each year, only to change the yearbook, will bear the same content from the Slovenian National Party this time, which means that the same matters as we have pointed out in 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 will also be highlighted this time. But this time with a different hope, the hope that the new financial authority will be willing to listen and, of course, to the knowledge and content of the proposals that we have put forward so many times to the former financial authorities, and that I will therefore repeat the main dilemmas that we see in the context of public finances in the parliamentary group this time. The main starting point, better said basic and only problem of all public financial acts, namely, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the rebalancing or the closing account is defined as "public". This public, the definition of the public, at least according to the National Party's assessment, can be viewed through three levels. For the first time, the word tells us that these are assets of all and of none. Secondly, despite the well-known river that the money of the world is the ruler, the matter of money is not responsible for the public finances in the country. So, still, despite being public, these are finances that no one is responsible for. At worst, even if a thousand billion were to disappear from the country, for example, what a good part of the budget would not be the responsibility. And allow me to present the third level of the problem of the 'public' label, which is mainly that, despite the fact that it is the money of all citizens and citizens, it is in the management sandstone or in the management right of the small sand within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And allow me to touch, within the time available, the substantive work, the general part of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is, of course, the most important and reflects the financial work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2004. If we look at the revenue side, if we look at the relationship between tax and non-tax revenue, we will unfortunately see that this year and this time we see it realistically - given that we can monitor the realisation on the basis of the rebalancing and the underlying budget line - that non-tax revenues take on less than or less than 7% of all tax or all budget revenues. Which means that in 2004, unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as executive of the authorities and executive of public finances, has pumped over 90% of all resources in our country exclusively through taxes, various forms of taxes. And in that year, if I recall correctly, in 2004 you confirmed in Parliament and accepted the government's proposals for introducing quite a few new taxes. Therefore, we can say with certainty that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not manage public finances on the basis of implementation in 2004 and that public sector revenues did not demonstrate the ability to manage public finances. Allow me to make a special stop at the accounts at code 7, i.e. between tax revenues mainly under the sub-item Participation in profits and income from assets. Therefore, the area that we have highlighted in the Slovenian National Party in particular in the negative light since 2000 has been the subject of an increase in funds under this heading and, of course, as a consequence, a reduction in all those items which actually burden citizens and citizens through taxes: the ratio of the company law in relation to the law on public companies and the double specification of one and the same company, and consequently the application or reference to the provisions of one company in the event of a positive result or negative result. In this way, the legislator and, of course, which is all the more critical, the executive branch of power has allowed the largest, according to our assessment, possibilities for financial speculation, when, on the one hand, state-owned enterprises divest, for example, profit under the company law and, of course, the negative situation is attributed to the State on the basis of the provisions of the Public Companies Act, one and the same company. And let me also point out from this point of view what is most important, according to our assessment, that these companies determine for themselves whether they will pursue the objective of the company law, i.e. making maximum profits. As we know, profit is contrary to pursuing the objective of a law on public companies whose basic element or tendency is to defend or ensure public interest. And, of course, the public interest in the literal content of this sentence is by no means profit-making at the expense of high positions, such as public companies or other undertakings dealing with such matters in the public sector. We would also like to point out, although we are very sorry that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, including the government of this time, has not been prepared to participate in the plenary session of the National Assembly. So that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not even given an introductory explanation, despite the account under the 78th code, the funds received from the EU, where we can see that the realisation is 54.55%, which means that only 43 billion were realized. This is, according to our assessment, despite the fact that in 2004, at least in the middle of the year when Slovenia entered, the information which is worrying and which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should specifically explain before the National Assembly this budget item and the lack of funds planned. And allow me to point out, within the time available, another matter which, according to the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, would be feasible in order to avoid meeting exclusively in the field of public finances in the coming years, i.e. in the field of taxes, regulation of new taxes or raising existing tax rates, to which we can see that the government is weighing; these are revenues from concession activities. In a large part of the budget on local communities or final accounts or rebalancings, in short, all three public financial acts in local communities, the entry for concessions shall take place. The municipality shall highlight those concessions over which the exclusive right of assignment is exercised by the local community. And if we know at least a little about the substance of the concessional work, we see that the basis or exclusive jurisdiction over concessions is in the hands of the state and, secondly, the local communities. And most of the local communities here are ahead of the country, especially those local communities that are trying not to burden their citizens and citizens with filling the municipal budget through various taxes and municipalities, such as taxes, but were willing to find and approach the market-filled budget. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not know how to do this, despite the fact that the plan - at least from the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group - took place in 2000, I repeat again, 2001, 2002 and until this year. As you probably know, unfortunately, even the existing government does not seem necessary or reasonable to pass a roofing law on concessions in our country. In the framework of a package of reforms introduced to us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that is to say, the reform package, which will by no means be an average citizen and citizens, does not contain the so-called concession area. That is why we do not see it in the next budget periods, but it would be reasonable, according to our assessment, that the government, which is currently in place during this period, would approach the umbrella law, because these are resources that do not burden citizens and citizens. And I assess, or in the framework of the SNS, that it is reasonable to take, in particular, such measures in the field of public finances, which will not burden citizens and citizens, but only those who, through the budget of the Republic of Slovenia or through a certain exclusive right, carried out in their possession by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, also carry out some market activity. So, according to our assessment, public finances should be adapted to the situation in our country and should not be endorsed by government proposals solely based on the extra taxation of citizens and citizens. We're not going to support the final account. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u212	Thank you very much. It is up to Mr Willi Rezman to present the DeSUS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Well, let me say that Members of the DeSUS Group will contribute their vote in order for the final account to be adopted, and let me say something else in the copies of the information on why we judge that it is possible to support it and what questions still arise. Firstly, we are talking today about the second part of the 2003 and 2004 Single Budget. And this second part was relatively accurate, mainly due to the timely and well-prepared balance. The general assessment is such that macroeconomic indicators are good that the technical side of the performance display is also good or better than the past and that some data are such that it was worse last year than it was in 2003. In particular, there have been several errors, new errors have been identified and there have been, for the first time, more rebuttal assessments and a whole series of negative assessments for direct budget users. In particular, it is interesting, and it is likely in the future that more attention should be paid to this, according to our judgment, as a major error, a persistent repetition of the same mistakes year after year; some errors have been occurring for many years, five years or more. While incomes are slightly below schedule, it is likely that some of the blame should also be sought in the poor use of European funds. Expenditure is also planned, but for that reason there is also a smaller physical realisation of individual investments, which of course is not good for us. The deficit is also smaller, mainly due to the timely suspension of commitments to the state budget. If some of the data were, I don't know, revenue, expenditure, inflation, deficit and so on, it's a poor use of European funds. And we believe that someone else would agree with us that the best structure of the budget was not then or this year and that the future budget does not appear to be an essential correction. The Commission has discussed this in considerable detail. It has identified and recorded some of the findings and, with these findings, we can solidarity in the DeSUS Group. We also support the conclusions proposed by the Commission. We add at least two more. We believe that direct budgetary users should be required to start preparing and actually prepare those regulatory measures that will be able to correct certain shortcomings, errors and weaknesses. We also propose that the government will do its utmost to prepare such a proposal for measures to prevent the recurrence of the errors that are being discussed, in particular with regard to public procurement, employment, transfers, subsidies and the like, which is also something that repeats from year to year. In our judgment, the government should prevent a constant violation of the principle of gross display of business events. We know it's DSU and some irregularities, and I think they've already been mentioned in the introduction today. It should ensure that irregularities in non-tax revenue, such as rentals at MORS, concessions at the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Environment and Space, are prevented. Let it correct the errors in capital revenues; this is what we will talk about, I mean, at the next meeting of the National Assembly, regarding the sale of our country's assets. And to prevent the misstatement of capital investments, as has been the case in Slovenian railways. While we will support the adoption of the budget, we cannot change the budget in any way, but we would also like to point out that particular attention needs to be paid to an area that is usually welcomed by the mayor's lobby. But let me remind you that the Ministry of Finance has received a negative assessment mainly because it has made mistakes in this area. Because it did not account for financial compensation to those municipalities which had more realised revenue from compensation for the use of building land than planned. We do know, however, that the system of calculus bases - as far as I am concerned, is purely arbitrary - is such that it then favours those municipalities which are self-sufficient, and in our case it is also the privilege of those who did not have to repay the excess of financial compensation. But that, of course, means that someone else had to put this into the state budget and that someone else paid for this discrimination and the privilege of individual congregations. I didn't go to see whose congregations they were, I didn't want to insinuate them, but I know - no, I'm sure this is a very bad way. We've been pointing this out for years, and it's gonna have to be fixed. We have absurd cases such as the fact that those municipalities that are self-sufficient retain all the compensation for the use of building land because they do not have financial compensation, and those that are weaker have financial compensation must contribute a large part of their own income to the state budget from which they then receive financial compensation. Some of the other provisions of Article 22 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities should also be rewinded and should be amended. It is also urgent to limit the will of the National Assembly, particularly in cases where it imposes new burdens on the municipalities, new tasks, and does not monitor them uncritically and without serious consideration. Firstly, not by asking for the consent of the municipality whether they would assume State obligations and not by following the financial flow and the possibility of implementing these programmes. We propose that the government takes these concerns, which we have with regard to the financing of the municipalities, more seriously than ever before, both past and present. Even the current one has not done anything in this area, and with some laws it is perpetuating, renewing this state of injustice that we now have in connection with the financing of the congregations. I conclude, however, that the Court of Auditors has warned that it will give a negative opinion only to those who seriously violate the law. And the Ministry of Finance has seriously violated legislation in the area of financing municipalities or the payment and non-accounting of surpluses of financial compensation. This is considered an additional argument and an additional reason for the government to take this issue more seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Veršnik has the following word on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u215	Your Honor! In my presentation of the opinions of the SDS Group on the final accounts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, I will not repeat the analytical data on the implementation of the budget, which we all, including the public, are more or less familiar with. I will focus in particular on what the findings of the Court of Auditors reveal to us in the audit report on the final account. In the meantime, let me say that we are pleased in the SDS Group, because this time the Court of Auditors has listened to the demands of our customers over the past years and has also presented a wider picture of its findings in the areas it has audited. We are not satisfied with much in the audit report, for example by not revealing the names of persons who have been partners in transactions where breaches of the rules have been detected. The Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation for the accuracy of the State budget statements as a whole and for the compliance of operations with the rules or regularity of the implementation of the State budget. A superficial observer would say medium well, but the appearance of cheating, we believe in the parliamentary SDS. This has already been partially reported by the audit opinion delivered by the Court of Auditors to individual ministries or budget users, namely: one positive opinion last year, four, 10 opinions with reservations, last year 8, 6 negative opinions, last year 2. In the SDS Group, however, we are particularly concerned about the disclosure of irregularities that have not occurred since last year, but have been revealed for the first time by the Court of Auditors in the audit report. It does not even impose explicit corrective measures on them. At the beginning of the presentation of the SDS Group's opinions, I will draw attention to the irregularities related to such fundamental issues as security, completeness and accuracy of data processing for the entire state budget. In the SDS Group, on the basis of the disclosure of the Court of Auditors, we estimate that in our country it is not appropriate to provide safe, complete and accurate processing of state budget data. The Court of Auditors gave the Ministry of Finance a negative opinion for 2004. Representatives of the Court of Auditors told the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances that such a negative opinion had also been decided because some irregularities had been repeated for years. I will not ask why the Court of Auditors has revealed irregularities that have been present for many years only now, with the replacement of coalitions, and whether it has not done so only after the European experts for the budgetary systems may have questioned the security of our central state information system. And what are the irregularities? The Ministry of Finance decided years ago to entrust management with the information support of our country's entire financial and accounting system to a private company by concluding a direct contract. The names of this company are not disclosed to us by the Court of Auditors in the audit report. If we look at the audit reports from previous years, we find that the Ministry of Finance has concluded contracts for the production of software solutions and for their maintenance with this company with contracts for different periods, for example for a period of three years 1999-2000, at 1.7 billion tolars, which it also complements with annexes. The Court of Auditors reports this time that the Ministry of Finance has concluded the last contract on 1.3.2003 of 1.4 billion dollars, I quote, for the whole period. Which can be seen as 2003 and 2004. At the same time, it reveals that the Ministry of Finance concluded four additional annexes to this agreement in 2004. In 2004, the Ministry of Finance paid 499.2 million tolls to the company under the said contract, 42% for programming and 29.8% or 149 million for telephone assistance in the use of software. The services are charged by the contractor by writing down actual hours for individual tasks that are valued according to agreed factors. This way of charging services domestically is called "acting on an open account". And what is the quality of computer solutions and their maintenance? Based on the findings of the Court of Auditors, we can find that everything is better than good. The Court of Auditors found that, for the first time, applications are constantly being repaired, supplemented and tested; the head of the project at the Ministry of Finance convenes weekly meetings, records of the agreed tasks are written by the contractor; the contractor also sends notes to the Ministry of Finance on the internal implementation of the agreed tasks of the contractor, for which the Ministry of Finance charges a total of 7.5 million tolars or 628 thousand tolars per year. In this regard, the Court of Auditors has written down the following: "The documentation does not show to whom these records are intended in the Ministry and if any action has been taken on the basis of a review of each minutes." End of quote. Secondly, the Court of Auditors found an extremely large number of interruptions in the application termination reports. It cites two cases, in May 2004, there were 14 thousand 725 in the operation of individual applications and 5,431 interruptions in November. The number of interruptions is certainly worrying. Thirdly, correction of the content of applications is also common. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance shall pay 74,000 tolls for each technical delivery. Fourthly, there are also frequent disruptions in the administration of database operation by the operator. In doing so, the Court of Auditors stated, quote: "The Ministry does not have adopted standards on the protection and protection of data on the basis of which it would introduce measures in such cases." End of quote. Fifthly, the contractor regularly advises the Ministry of Finance on the content of applications, and to a large extent, as already mentioned, on the phone, while the time of telephone counselling increases by a factor of 0.20 per cent of an hour. Sixthly, the Ministry of Finance issues an order to assist the contractor in the payment of salaries each month. In 2004, she paid $55.5 million for this service. The Court of Auditors found that these costs were unjustified as the software solutions for the payment of salaries were taken into account following agreed procedures. I quote: "It is not possible to understand the eligibility of the operator's aid from the reports on the payment of salaries." End of story. At the same time, the Court of Auditors found that, with the cooperation of the external contractor, I quote "no check of the correct entry of personnel data" - the end of the quote - which must be the responsibility of individual ministries or budget users. On the contrary. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, which own accounting on the same application, do not need additional external private operator services every month. And for the seventh time, even more, the Court of Auditors found the following: "The contractor for the needs of the Ministry of Finance is correcting the data in the database, which means a risk to the integrity and credibility of the data." End of quote. Dear Members and taxpayers. These seven requirements, which I have presented in relation to data processing, are indicative of three major problems. First time. The protection and protection of data in the central accounting and financial system of the State budget is not ensured, nor are standards set or set. It is not known how, if at all, the Ministry of Finance and external contractors formally share their responsibilities. Another time. The external operator shall have the power to provide substantive correction of data in the databases. For example, salary data shall be processed without the necessary control. Third time. The responsible persons of the Ministry of Finance shall do business on a non-economic basis with private operators or the manufacturer of computer applications. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we welcome the fact that the Court of Auditors has finally revealed matters that should have been done much earlier, but we believe that this is not enough. In its decision, the Court of Auditors merely stated, quote, "that the Ministry of Finance must improve the efficiency of managing the contract with the contractor", the end of the quote, but did not impose any corrective measures in this regard. In the SDS parliamentary groups, we believe that the Court of Auditors should immediately hire competent test auditors of information systems, in accordance with international standards for the revision of information systems, to assess all risks and to formulate concrete recommendations for their elimination. Since it has not done so, it is not expected that the State officials of the Ministry of Finance would be more responsible in 2005 for the performance of their duties and therefore, in the 2005 audit report, we can expect similar findings to that of 2004, as the latter are already disclosed at the end of 2005. In the second part of the presentation of the SDS Group's opinion on the accounts of the state budget accounts, I will draw attention to the disclosure of irregularities which are of a substantive nature and also raise reasonable doubts about the acceptable level of accuracy and completeness of the data in the state budget accounts, but are due to the insufficient professional and responsible conduct of the state officials and officials themselves in the Ministry of Finance. The Court of Auditors found that business events, revenue and expenditure of the budget are recorded in the central computer system of the application, so-called MFRAC, through the creation of unilateral books, which does not provide for the control of the completeness of the state budget’s revenue and expenditure without the additional activities of the Ministry’s or budgetary users to coordinate data, for example, that all inflows or budget sub-accounts are recorded in the relevant accounting accounts. The same findings of the Court of Auditors can also be expected for 2005 as the directly responsible person of the Ministry of Finance on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances simply explained that such irregularities [[Quote]] "can't go straight through the night or until the new year" [[End quote]] . For 2006, however, she promised to eliminate irregularities. I will add: by then, the external manufacturer and computer application maintainer will have some additional invoices. We must rightly ask ourselves whether the highest state officials in Slovenia have properly defined their duties and responsibilities. In the third part of the presentation of the SDS Group's opinions on the accounts of the state budget accounts, I would like to draw attention to the revealed irregularities which are of a substantive nature and lead to the incorrect presentation of the current budget deficit and the presentation of the debt under the so-called national Slovenian methodology. By the way, MEPs are also not presented this time with a statement of budget deficit according to European ESA-95 standards, which is the criteria by which our fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria is monitored. For many years, the Ministry of Finance has been having difficulty showing cash guarantees at the burden of the state budget. Between 1996 and 2004, 35.7 billion were cashed, of which 29 billion had not yet been shown during the expenditure of the state budget or, in other words, state spending. The largest share of cashed and non-booked guarantees relates to TAM Maribor and Automontaža Bus Ljubljana. This is a sum of between 0,5 % and 0,7 % of the gross social product. For the first time, by the way, the Court of Auditors mentioned this irregularity last year without requiring a correction of the statement of budgetary expenditure. It also warns for 2004 only, so it can be expected to require their coverage in 2005. And then you'll be friends, Mr. Mag. Tone Rob and Mag. Ms. Squeakl, announced that the current coalition had greatly increased government spending. It is clear that in delaying the payment of these guarantees until the bankruptcy proceedings were completed, the LDS only demonstrated that these expenditure would not have to be recorded at the expense of the country's deficit. In national accounting, there were also substantive difficulties in the correct recording of commitments made by the Slovenian Railway Holding in 2004 of 4.6 billion tolars for the purchase of passenger trains. They should be shown in the accounts of financial claims and investments and for the same amount increase the budget deficit, of course, by the Governments of Rob. But they didn't do it for 2004. They've shown their debt takeover in the balance sheet. According to the Court of Auditors in 2004, the Ministry of Finance also unjustifiably exceeded its guarantee limit of 6.4 billion tolars granted to the Vrhnika Leather Industry, whose recovery had been unsuccessfully supported by LDS for several years by EUR 11.4 million. State aid can reach a maximum of €10 million. The Court of Auditors also found that the State did not owe itself in 2004 in accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act, which allows it to be in short-term debt only up to 5% of the last budget adoption, which would amount to 92.5 billion and owed more than 10 billion dollars to issue short-term treasury coins. The continued renewal of the debt by means of treasury coins is already of a long-term nature and long-term indebtedness has not been transparently demonstrated. The Court of Auditors did not consider this finding to be an irregularity. In the SDS Group, we believe that there is a need to regulate or comply with the rules of borrowing. It is even more concerned to note that in 2004 the state budget did not at all register 28.6 billion short-term loans obtained through one-month treasury bills, which did not otherwise finance the state budget, but those of the public individuals who owed themselves to the Treasury Treasury. I'd say a little simpler, they went to the bank. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, the so-called Treasury can only borrow short-term surplus money from public individuals, including the state budget being only one entity and cannot create new money. Officials of the Ministry of Finance apologize for the delay in regulating the publication of this field of operation of the Ministry of Finance. In 2005, they say that there will be no more such undeclared indebtedness of the state budget through the treasury, because it will not be necessary. In the fourth set, I would like to draw attention to the irregularities identified in the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the customs administration or in the presentation of tax revenue records. The Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia still maintains tax books, records of liabilities, claims and payments of individual taxpayers in three unrelated systems. Analytical records for natural and legal persons after Durs expositions are still weak and improperly maintained after nine years. In 2004, Durs and the Public Revenue Administration did not coordinate the records even though they should. The VAT record is not concluded annually, which, in our opinion, allows for the incorrect presentation of VAT paid data for each annual period. Even in the customs administration, the Court of Auditors was unable to confirm the correctness of the return on tax revenue of up to 5.6 billion. The Court of Auditors has imposed corrective measures on both Dursu and the customs administration to provide credible tax returns and overpaid taxes. What is amazing is how irresponsible the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy is, of course, under the guidance of the Master of the Copač. It took care of concession revenue. They'll probably tell my colleagues about it anyway. The Ministry must charge concessions under the Water Act, the Mining Act, the Nature Conservation Act, the Environmental Protection Act. 188 concession contracts were concluded. For the use of water, drinks and baths in 2004, concessions have not yet been charged, meaning in other words that they have allowed another additional transition year for private companies in tourism and the production of drinks to achieve so much higher profits. We have to ask ourselves, where are the reasons for this slowness? The irregularities that I have pointed out so far have only partially affected the opinion with reservations to the country's financial statements, and I therefore estimate that someone else will agree with the opinion of the SDS Group that we have had a rather egregious supreme audit institution in Slovenia so far. In particular, I would like to point out and express the disagreement between the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group and the fact that the Court of Auditors did not revise the balance sheet or the balance sheet of ministries or other budgetary users after 10 years of its operation and thus the balance sheet of the central state as a whole. The former President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Antončič, is known to have announced the revision of the accounts for the final account in 2003. The Court of Auditors has also taken part in this audit, but because of numerous irregularities detected in the disclosure of funds and liabilities to resources for 2003, it remained in the so-called transitional audit and forecasted for 2004. Why this task has not been carried out, it has not been explained, so we can expect this audit for the financial year 2005 and its conclusions, which are unlikely to be much better than those of the so-called preliminary audit for 2003. In the second part of the presentation, the opinion of the Slovenian Democrats' Group will highlight the findings of the revision of the correctness of budget implementation. The four ministries, as we have already said, have earned negative audit opinions on the correct implementation of their financial plans: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Information Society and the Ministry without a licence from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for structural policy and regional development. Others were given an opinion by the Court of Auditors with reservations. Only the Ministry of Health gave a positive opinion. Negative opinions were also received by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Republic Election Commission. Non-compliance with regulations has been established: in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, in the allocation of transfers, in the acquisition and enforcement of commitments from the budget, in employment. And what were the violations of the Public Procurement Act? The most worrying are the types of infringements related to the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. It is important to point out that so-called ministries that have received a negative opinion, such as those ministries that have received an opinion with reservation, have violated public procurement rules. The most common were the following types of irregularities. Firstly, the award of public contracts without invitation to tender and irregularly following a negotiated procedure without prior publication, although conditions were not met for this purpose. Another time. Multi-order low-value orders and thus high-value orders. Third time. The publication of the invitation to tender did not specify the conditions and criteria for determining and recognising the capacity, criteria for assessing the offer. Fourth time. In contrast to the rules, additional work has been done. Fifth. A tenderer who did not fulfil the conditions was selected or its offer was not correct. Six. During the second stage of the tendering procedure, not all candidates who were recognised in the course of the procedure were invited and the contract was concluded with the sole tenderer. It's a week. In the case of low-value contracts, the tender documents did not specify the conditions for the selection of the tenderer. The criteria have been defined incorrectly or have not been defined at all how the criteria are applied, instead of the implementation of the new procedure, an annex to the existing contract has been concluded. All these violations of the Public Procurement Act are repeated year after year. The situation is not improving, and in the state administration under the leadership of the LDS, nothing has happened so far. In all the years of application of the Public Procurement Act, it has not been heard that anyone would be punished for such violations. The Court of Auditors doesn't report that either. And what were the rules for granting transfers? The following irregularities were most common in the allocation of transfers. The recipients did not comply with the tendering conditions, the tenders were not properly executed, the funds were allocated in a larger amount than provided for in the regulation, and the appropriations were also allocated to applications that arrived after the deadline for submission. And what were the breaches of the rules in taking over and implementing the obligations of the budget? We note that the following irregularities have been identified: the obligations have been assumed without a legal basis, even though the funds were not planned for them in the budget, at a different value than the offer. The funds were paid before the service was delivered and administered, contrary to the contract, without authentic documents, for purposes other than those set out in the financial plan. At the moment of the disclosure of the Court of Auditors in respect of breaches of the Public Procurement Act, directly, in the award of transfers and in the takeover of obligations in the SDS Group, we miss the findings of the Court of Auditors on the reasons for such a situation and the recommendations for addressing the irregularity of the systemic aspect. The Court of Auditors does not report in its audit report for 2003 or 2004 on the functioning or non-operation of internal controls in our ministries. Thus, the Court of Auditors does not report and/or revise the establishment and functioning of internal controls, although it should be right to revise internal controls according to international standards for the national audit of INTOSAI its regular annual component of the audit. As a result of this situation in the SDS Group, we estimate that the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance is particularly looking forward to a great deal of work in regulating public procurement, so that our national administration will adopt public procurement rules and accept them as its responsibility. In the new Public Procurement Act in the SDS Group, we also expect a stronger regulation of sanctioning breaches of the Public Procurement Act. In the third part of the presentation, I will give the opinion of the Group to assess the effectiveness of the budget sub-programmes in 2004. As part of the audit of the country’s final accounts for 2004, the Court of Auditors first undertook an evaluation of the implementation of the budgetary sub-programmes by attempting to assess their effectiveness. This task has also included checking the correctness of the implementation of sub-programmes and has named this task [[Quote]] "Assessing the correctness and effectiveness of the implementation of selected sub-programmes". Since 2001, spending on the state budget has been structured on about 90 programmes and around 300 sub-programmes; rather, it has been only according to detailed items of economic categories. The Court of Auditors has tried to assess 18 sub-programmes per ministry. It assessed whether the objectives of the sub-programmes: firstly, appropriately defined or identifiable, measurable with pre-set criteria and indicators, are time-defined and relevant and, fourthly, reachable or reachable by budgetary users. And what did the Court of Auditors find? The analysis of its findings shows that 88% of sub-programmes do not have clearly defined long-term or medium-term targets and 12% are not defined at all; 41% of sub-programmes do not have annual implementation targets; 24% specify too many annual targets to be monitored; 35% do not at all; 94% of sub-programmes do not have expected results; 6% are only partially; 82% of sub-programmes do not have performance indicators and 6% do not correspond to them; and 12% do not at all. Measures or strategies to achieve the objectives are partially presented in 53% of sub-programmes, 47% are not presented at all, 70% of sub-programmes are inadequate, 12% are appropriate and 18% are partially appropriate. Annual budget requirements derive from 88% of the sub-programme from inappropriate baseline prices, baseline prices are appropriate for 12% of sub-programmes. The implementation of sub-programmes is monitored inadequately, 70% and only 18% respectively, and 12% are not monitored at all. 78% of sub-programmes did not identify the person responsible for their implementation. However, actual expenditure on the budget of the appropriations allocated deviated from the plan in the budget between 10 and 41% in the 10 sub-programmes up to a total of 18 sub-programmes reviewed. Dear listeners or fellow Members, including viewers, thank you very much for the warning. I know all these percentages and numbers you didn't remember. Mr. Anderlich probably didn't either. Surely, however, you could create a feeling that our planning for spending on the programme structure and their criteria in the state budget is a lot more wrong. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the current system of programming programmes and sub-programmes has been largely unsuccessful because it has been incorrectly and under-exploited, both by the Ministry of Finance and by the ministries in question. It was set up right across the aisle with some articles in the Public Finance Act. In developed countries, where they had been diverted from planning the input of budget programmes to a new output a few years ago, and outcom did so quite differently. To this end, specific laws have been adopted most frequently, for which public servants and public officials have been educated, and in particular they have been aware that taxpayers are responsible for efficient and efficient public consumption. With us, dear colleagues, the opposite is true. Efficiency and performance syndrome, unfortunately, only more money or input for each budget programme. When we adopt state budgets for 2006 and 2007, at the next meeting of the National Assembly, we will hear from the opposition: programme A needs more resources, programme B even more and so on. However, no one will ask how effectively and successfully the country has so far spent the resources of the state budget under the rule of the LDS and what it has achieved in the area of measuring the efficiency and effectiveness of public spending. The current coalition has already announced results-oriented budgeting in the coalition contract. The first step towards a more efficient and cheaper country is announced by measure 35 and measure 36 of the Economic and Social Reform Programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Milan Cvikl to present the LDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Government representatives, the absent Minister of Finance, who was obviously vetoed, voted in the Income Act, have been so hurt that he failed to reach the National Assembly, however, a nice greeting. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, I would like first of all to say that we will support the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004, even though we are not entirely satisfied with how the government, which took office on 3 December 2004, completed the implementation of this budget. This is precisely the fact that the government, especially the Ministry of Finance, did not carry out certain activities at the end of 2004 to improve the situation, is also the cause of the negative opinion of the Court of Auditors. I would like to say that we are pleased that the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance have prepared, in the words of my predecessor, such a critical approach to the preparation of the final account, the correct material for the consideration of the final account for 2004. We also assess that the Court's approach with the changed methodology is more appropriate than it has been in previous years and we are particularly pleased that, based on this methodology, the 2005 final account will be able to objectively compare the implementation of the 2004 budget. Of course, we are aware that there are shortcomings as well as certain irregularities. In this regard, we agree with the Members of the ruling coalition that this is probably the most likely to be the case in all procurement procedures. We are therefore particularly saddened that there is no new law on public procurement in the National Assembly on 30 November. The new Public Procurement Law was promised by the government to the National Assembly before the summer of this year. This has been recorded in some government programs. We hear that after a reform framework has been adopted involving a number of experts, these same experts are now coordinating with whom for a well-paid job, I do not know, the latest texts of the Public Procurement Act. The Public Procurement Act should enter into force on 31 January 2006. Are we even going to get him into the National Assembly? When we get him, will it even take enough time to deal with him here? Thus, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support all the efforts of this and subsequent governments, because this will not be the work of one mandate, to increase the effective use of public funds to strengthen the results of targeted budgetary planning. If this government, which is not here today, or at least not in the form in which it should be, does not prepare the relevant documents in due time, how can we, of course, believe that there will be a reduction in irregularities in the coming years. We are pleased that the 2004 budget, which, despite the fact that payment retention occurred at the end of the year in October, was correctly realised that, despite only 96.9% of the expenditure realised at the end of the year was slightly less than 600 billion, good economic growth was achieved and, as is also known, lower inflation and a lower budget deficit than planned. I think it was a good trip for 2005. We are aware that the 2004 budget needs to be assessed primarily in view of the fact that the budget itself has been prepared under the 2003 budget, 2004 budget and has been set by the revised budget at the end of 2003, but, as the Court of Auditors has found, an appropriate opinion with reservation can be given for this budget. I would be very happy if today's debate was mainly about how the government would do everything to get a positive opinion on the budgets for the following years. We will deal with something similar on Friday at the Commission on Budgetary Control when we familiarise ourselves with the European Court of Auditors' report on the European budget, where we have a number of efforts by the Commission and the European Court of Auditors to obtain a positive opinion. However, if the government of the Republic of Slovenia in due time, nor legislation - and the law on public procurement is one of the key laws for the implementation of the budget - does not bring it into the national assembly, then of course it is extremely difficult to judge its content. We are concerned, in the debate on the 2004 final budget account, that revenues from the European Union have been achieved at a significantly lower level than were planned. Of course, we could also say that we were overly optimistic in the planning process. What is of particular concern to us is, of course, that even for 9 months of this year's data show also a poor realisation of the European Union's revenues. I think it would be good if the government today, when we consider the final account, some kind of government success balance, said what about it. The government is silent here today. Not only do we have a ruling coalition, which, when discussing the 2004 budget, as if to discuss, if you want, the previous government, but it is not aware that the documents produced by this government are being discussed, we simply have a German government. We have a government that has come to a meeting of the Assembly, a shareholder society, Slovenia d.d., after confirming its closing account and decided that neither the administration nor the supervisory council will say a word on its behalf. And all those who speak here are shareholders of this Slovenia d.d., the only difference is that we have a group of Members or a group of Slovenian shareholders d.d. that would just buy these shares and a group that I'm not quite sure of if I were buying them. But they're talking about the closing account and they're looking at me as a representative of the commission, like the one I'm reporting to the state council on the closing account. The final account shall be presented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. And this government has been under the leadership of Mr. Janez Janš since 3 December. Of course, as a representative of the leadership of the Liberal Democracy Club, someone who speaks on behalf of the club is interested in what the government will do to either address irregularities or ensure that the objectives set are more achieved on a case-by-case basis. I say this because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has somehow changed the hierarchy of objectives by means of a coalition agreement. We would like to know how you will present your own closing account for 2005. Or according to the points of the coalition contract or through the resources or in accordance with the financial plans prepared? This is important because we are aware that a number of activities are currently under way at the Ministry of Finance to deal with the improvement of budgetary planning, but we do not quite understand what the government is representing and what the objectives are. If you want a positive opinion, for example, for the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, it is not enough to add more money to buy motorised battalion funds, it is necessary to agree on what are the objectives we represent in the field, for example. It is necessary to define what the objectives of the Ministry of Education and, for example, the area of the Ministry of Agriculture are, for example, an increase in subsidies in the area of the Ministry of Agriculture. In the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the closing account for 2004. We believe that its conclusion, with the exception of the two points I will talk about below, is more appropriate than it has been in previous years, so we also have the correct opinion of the Court of Auditors. However, the question raised by some Members here today was whether the Ministry of Finance should, at the end of the financial year, of course, find that such funds are available, but do not do something that would and was done in the past in accordance with positive legislation. One question is whether a financial settlement should be settled for the municipalities. This has been shared with the Commission. The Court of Auditors decided to give a negative opinion to the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance doesn't say anything about that. Only in a law that is under procedure do they want to say a transitional provision, regardless of what the Court of Auditors thinks, but we would still be doing with regard to the financial compensation of the municipalities as we have in the past. And so that there is no more negative opinion, we ask the National Assembly to give us cover back. I want to, and it would be good to discuss whether it is necessary for municipalities that have received more money to take money. Some MPs said yes. And second. The Ministry of Finance could, of course, provide additional funds at the end of the year at the end of the year if the Minister of Finance was fully operational. On this basis, the pension register could pay its long-term obligations and it would not be necessary to cover up the pension debt and, as we know, to do so in parallel with medical bills. I say this because, of course, it is the task of each government to bring the obligations arising from the laws into line with the financial possibilities and, of course, only the fact that, in 2004, the previous government, under the leadership of Minister Mumorir, acted in a conservative manner and limited its commitment, allowed the Minister of Finance to carry out these few activities. It wasn't done. I say this because the same situation as in 2004, when the previous government handed over to the new government the balance sheets that are clean, the balance sheets that were recorded in those papers, unfortunately, were not the same in 2000, in 2004, Mr Bajuk handed over the new 20 billion unpaid liabilities to the government at that time. The situation in 2004 was reversed due to the proper functioning of the government, which operated until 3 December. Taking into account the above, we believe that the Court of Auditors’ opinion is correct, that there is a need to discuss two, three open issues in this National Assembly, the EU, a financial settlement for the municipalities and that the Government should come to this National Assembly with, as it says, better prepared state budgets for the following years, 2006, 2007. And one last thought. In accordance with the Public Finance Act, for the first time this year, if we decide to do so today, we will confirm or adopt the final accounts for the previous year before we adopt the state budget for the following year. That's good practice. It has been introduced in the Public Finance Act, taking into account all the changes we have made in the meantime, and in particular the good work of the Court of Auditors during the hot summer months, allows us today to ensure what is normal and normal practice in the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I'm asking the representatives of the Social Democrats if there will be anyone else instead of Brada Pecan? [[He won't.]] Thank you very much. Then it is up to Mr Cyril Testen to present the position of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u219	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members. Given that my predecessors are already many, I could say everything from the position and opposition side, I will try to be significantly shorter. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party we agree that some macroeconomic indicators achieved in 2004 will be good. This applies mainly to economic growth, which was 4.6%. Remember, it was significantly lower in 2002 and 2003. Inflation was 3.6%, which is also very good. Exports and budget deficits were also very good, as has been said several times. However, there were also quite a few poor indicators, among which undoubtedly included imports which increased in line with exports. Very poor results have been achieved in drawing on EU funds, as has been highlighted several times today. Of the possible 80.36 billion we have realized only 43.84 billion or 54.55%. The result is even more worrying if we look at the structure of these funds. The left side of these funds that we have acquired is from flat-rate payments, where we have realised 110% and 27 billion. Thus, about three-fifths of all the funds received were obtained from flat-rate payments. It is very worrying that we have not even obtained a tolar from structural policy, cohesion policy and internal policy. Another major problem we see in the New Slovenia Group is that the purchase and construction of basic funds and investment transfers, although in early October the minister was forced to stop further investments, if this is due to some condition that these two things were realized at a very low level, it is between 70% and 80%. The characteristics of 2004 and some years earlier are large obligations imposed on local communities by the National Assembly with the legislation adopted but have not been provided with additional resources. We both assess policy towards local communities in our parliamentary group and fail. The findings of the Court of Auditors in the review of individual ministries in 2004 are worrisome, even if compared with 2003. There is a significant number of ministries with a negative opinion. It has already been said that negative opinions were received by four ministries and two government departments, only two in the previous year. In addition, only one ministry received a positive opinion. The large open problem remains public procurement, which, in my view and in our view, is partly due to the Public Procurement Act and to a greater extent to the incorrect attitude towards public funds, and in some cases also to negligence and ignorance. Here I would particularly point out the Ministry of Agriculture, where errors are particularly worrying and suggest irregularities, which are only a result of an incorrect approach and a lack of seriousness in public procurement. The negative opinion was also received by the Ministry of Finance because the final settlement account was incorrectly executed or not at all carried out. In its defence, the Ministry said that the problem would be temporarily resolved by the law on the implementation of the budget and later by a new law on the financing of municipalities. In the Ministry's view, it would be unstimulating to request funds. I will also comment a little on the positive opinion delivered by the Court of Auditors to the Ministry of Health. I disagree with the Court of Auditors' finding for the following reason. According to the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Health received a positive opinion because it did not work. For this reason, giving a positive opinion is not the right thing to do. Those who know the budget and budget of the Ministry of Health will know that at the Ministry of Health in 2004 a good 10 billion resources remain unspent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u220	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal for an act. I invite you, given that there's quite a few things missing, Master Capudra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u221	Thank you very much. What a big leap, but it's no big deal. On the correctness of the implementation of the 2004 State budget as a whole and on the regularity of individual direct budgetary users, the Court of Auditors gave only one positive opinion, ten opinions with reservations and six negative opinions. For the correct implementation of the State budget as a whole, an opinion was given with reservation. On the revenue side, I was struck by the Court of Auditors' finding that the Ministry of Labour in 2004 did not verify the correctness of the concession fees paid in the state budget, as indicated by the student services. It was found that, during the year, there were indications of lower monthly advances than those laid down in the contracts and that the Ministry's records in this area were incomplete and unregulated. The Court of Auditors estimates that around 31 million tolars were paid to the State budget under this heading and should be less than it should be. I'm just curious, or I'd have to figure out where that money went. An assessment of the correctness and effectiveness of the implementation of selected sub-programmes of revised direct budgetary users was made on 18 sub-programmes in 17 users totalling 239 billion tolars. In particular, they checked the proper and effective planning of sub-programmes, their proper and effective implementation and the correct and effective reporting of individual sub-programmes. In doing so, the Court of Auditors has found that implementation and reporting of implementation is ineligible, in particular due to inadequate sub-programme planning. In 2004, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs concluded 11 agreements on co-financing of social programmes which had the status of society in the public interest. In the verification of two of them, it found that one of them did not submit reports, as specified or signed in the contract, and one of them did not send any relevant reports at all. In addition, the Ministry has planned funds for societies only on the basis of financial plans, work programmes and implementation in the past year, not on the basis of pre-defined precise funding criteria. The same Ministry also found that in 2004 the same Ministry had double criteria for monitoring individual Ministry measures. For those financed by the European Social Fund, a number of monitoring indicators were used, rather than for those financed from the State budget, and had insufficiently defined performance indicators, although this was an assessment of the exact same measures, there were only other sources of funding. In the field of active employment policy, the Court of Auditors found that the institution which was the contractor of this programme reported only the use of funds, but not the internal evaluation of the programme’s performance, which was the contractual obligation of the institution. In this way, it was virtually impossible to monitor the success of the programme and also the meaning of the money used, which was by no means small. Let me conclude with the expectation that the observations of the Court of Auditors at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will be taken into account. I expect that the budget will not only be spent efficiently, but first they will plan effectively and properly and finally implement sub-programmes correctly and transparently. The use of money should not be its own intention, but rather the expected and expected results. With 10 opinions with reservations and six negative opinions and only one positive opinion from the Commission's proposal for budgetary control, I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u222	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. The debate on the final account is a debate on something that has already been carried out. The substance we are discussing is interesting and I do not intend to discuss this on average. I will touch only one area, and this is the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy. It's too much to focus on the whole content, so let's take a look at it. The Court of Auditors has been critical in a number of areas, such as misdemeanour transfers, and also the Ministry did not disclose accounts to everyone with whom it concluded the concession contract, nor has it concluded a concession contract with all the users. The first question I'm asking is why it didn't all come to a concession contract. For example, the Ministry concluded 188 concession contracts for water use, for drinking and bathing. The Court of Auditors found that the Ministry did not charge all users who had concluded the concession contract. Why did this happen, I'm asking a question. This simply means inequality in the market and the granting of privileges to some. Which one? Colleagues, I'm asking a second question about what such an act is called if you grant privileges to someone but not to others. There's plenty of flowers like that. These are the facts that have already happened. If I vote in favour, morally support such actions, I do not think that if I vote against it, nothing will happen and I will not change the facts that have already happened and have already been done. It might be useful to consider turning the validation procedure into a final account procedure. When the option is given, however, I will certainly vote against it because I do not intend to give my consent to irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u224	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Kokalj's turn. A lot of them are missing. I don't want to name them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u225	Good. I would like to comment briefly on what has already been mentioned on the drawing-up of European funds, which was extremely poor, only around 55% of the funds envisaged. If we go according to individual items, the pre-accession funds only 51%, the funds received from the European Union budget for the implementation of the common agricultural policy are also around 50%, the funds received from the Structural Policy budget 0, the funds received from the European Union Cohesion Policy budget 0, the funds received from the European Union budget for the implementation of the internal policy have not been realised. Apart from the funds received from the European Union budget for flat-rate reimbursements, which were realised at 110%, this is likely due to some kind of automation as well as to the work of the authorities which have to take care of these funds and to the remaining funds received from the European Union budget, which were not planned, but which came at a level of 410 million tolars. And the funds received from other European institutions were mainly for travel expenses, including unplanned, amounting to 240 million tolars. This balance sheet shows that the previous government had an extremely inadequate system of spending European funds, which is likely also due to the reorganisation it carried out at the wrong time. And this lack is impossible to make up for overnight. I think that the current government will also have major problems, as it will change the whole process and structure of the work of the organs, I think it will be very difficult. I hope that this loss, or that the loss of unused funds, will succeed according to the M plus 2 formula, which is established, will in some way only draw on at least a little more. From this point of view, however, I must say that the final account absolutely does not deserve an assessment. This is an extremely, extremely poor work of the former government in the field of spending European funds. That's why I just can't support this closing account.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u227	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I also have very bad feelings when reading all these four rapporteurs, which show that the previous government has not handled money in a very cost-effective manner and has acted in a very transparent manner. For example, there is a whole lot of opinions with reservations or even negative opinions. That is why I might stress some of the most outstanding things. In the field of the Ministry of Environment and Space, for example, there is a reserved opinion, there is an item, or point, which also concerns our local areas, that is, the uranium mine Žirovski Summit in closing, where 177 million went to close the trenches. However, the implementation report was not accompanied by the accounts. Of course, we cannot know whether it was done as agreed or signed. The Ministry of Labour, the family also received an opinion with reservation. It was the payment of works that had not yet been carried out of a larger subsidy than was prescribed and for extra-budgetary expenditure. Although the Ministry of Health had a positive opinion, the fact is that consumption was extremely low and you cannot make too many mistakes in low consumption. 28% of the budget was spent. The information society, the negative opinion, here stand out irregularities, accepting obligations without a contract. Education, reserved opinion, football courts, contract not in accordance with the invitation to tender, taking responsibility for 2006 and 2007. However, I think the budget was adopted for 2004 and 2005. There's a discrepancy here. The Ministry of Culture - opinion with reservation and then a few negative opinions. In particular, I would like to draw attention to what is done by my colleague Kokalj, in particular the poor use of EU funds. Therefore, I certainly cannot support the proposals of the 2004 accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u228	Thank you. Good evening for me, too. Thank you to my colleague Pavlihi for his leadership so far, and I will read the following applications, given that some Members have changed or cancelled. The following will have the word of colleague Drago Koren, followed by Rudolf Petan and Martin Mikolič. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Drago Koren. Martin Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well-known honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It is true that in 2004 or that macroeconomic indicators were very favourable, and it is even more surprising that the implementation of budgetary revenues and expenditure was poor, it is said that it was not achieved according to what was planned. However, in one part it is not surprising that the use of European funds was indeed poor, which was also expected, but nevertheless it is a criticism, because in cohesion and structural policy, the internal policy is, in fact, completely zero or nothing in this segment has come into our budget, despite the fact that we had to carry out our obligations to the EU. The other thing that really bothers me is the poor realization of investment expenditure or expenditure for investments and investment transfers. We are planning certain funds, especially in the agricultural field, but also in the economy, because I know exactly what funds have not actually been realized. Most of these are the funds to be received by certain entities or beneficiaries on the basis of tenders. These calls were so planned that, which is already the true history for the past and over many years, this has been repeated that it is not possible, then, that financial resources on these items can be realized for reasons, as I mentioned earlier, by late calls, perhaps even many times at the wrong time. It is also very bad that capital revenues - we know that this is actually the sale of real property - in a very poor percentage is realized, only 30%, according to the planned 7 billion has only been realised 2.2 billion. I would also like to say this in the light of all the opinions of the Court of Auditors when you read them and finally find that there are many flowers that are actually repeated from the first department in the field, which has been examined by the Court of Auditors, up to the last. And the biggest problem, as in recent years, is public procurement, the huge irregularities that are recurring, and this has also been the case in 2004. I am therefore not surprised that, of all ministries, only the Ministry of Health has received a positive opinion. However, I firmly believe that if we were to make investments or those financial resources that were planned in this account, this ministry would not get a positive opinion either. In view of all these facts, it is said that the final reports and opinions issued by the Court of Auditors, I cannot vote or press the "yes" button for the closing account, because I believe that in fact to mix the final account and the budget, as one of the discussers said before, would be possible but a positive opinion - I think he has had a bit of a laugh - if there is more money for certain purposes. When we vote on the budget, we actually vote for - at least I personally - if money is available for certain purposes for certain ministries so that certain projects can be implemented. However, the final account is due to the implementation of the budget. And in view of all these opinions of the Court of Auditors, I must also be so honest that I will not confirm the final accounts for 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u230	Thank you for your contribution. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word. [[He's not here.]] Next on the list of applicants is Dr. Slavko Gaber. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to my fellow Member, Happy Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I myself would start this discussion on the budget by finding a representative of one of the parliamentary groups who wondered why there is no, I don't know, even the whole government to explain and explain the 2004 budget. It has also been mentioned and we all know the fact that the government of President Janez Janša performed on 3 December, it is said that during last financial period only 20 days had the opportunity to participate in enforcement in one way or another. Secondly, I do not understand in any way the regret of the same representative of the parliamentary group that the government has missed in these 20 working days is that I do not know what opportunity to improve the situation in such a way that the opinion would not be negative. As far as I'm aware of accounting, events should be recorded in the opposite direction and to the extent that they occurred. What else could have been done is really not clear to me, unless, at some point in the past, the practice has been different, and we have also, or there have been some things that have been rectified in return, but I am sure that this government will not do so. Of course, perhaps I could ask myself, because he was in that government, and he might have some questions that he himself answered or could have been helped by his colleagues, who were ministers at the time. However, personally, if I were in his position, I would imagine that there is only one positive opinion by the Court of Auditors and six negative and ten with reservations, which suggests that either with the report itself or with the implementation of the budget at the level or with respect for the law itself, there is probably not much right. I wouldn't repeat too many things because there was a lot of things said, but I'd give you two cases, three. First of all, as far as consistency is concerned, this means the timely and accurate recording of these accounting events. One such case has already been presented. This is a recapitalisation of the Slovenian Railways holding company, a value of 4.6 billion tolars, which in no case is a small amount. It follows from the audit report that, although this event was recorded in the balance sheet, the content involved budgetary expenditure. If we do not record an event of 4.6 billion, then we ask ourselves whether there can be no other place, in any other case where the Court of Auditors has not carried out an examination, similar errors have occurred. The second is the control over the use and implementation of resources for public economic services in the field of railways. The Court of Auditors finds that there was insufficient control here. The item, however, weighs about 50 billion. If we can afford not to control such a large amount well enough, then sooner or later it may be that what is then shown is not true or that it was a misappropriation, an unintended, irrational use. Secondly, with regard to procurement errors, compliance with legislation and so on, only two cases could be cited. One relates, although this is not such a large amount, but I think that in any case it is necessary to respect legislation whether it is one tolar or one hundred billion. The Ministry or Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads has concluded a concession contract with an undertaking on 31.8.2004 and the Court of Auditors has found that the dynamics concerning these payments were not in accordance with the contract or an annex was concluded, the total amount being 126 million tolars. Another such issue is a contract concluded between the Slovenian Civil Aviation Authority on 1.9.2004 and the purchase of a fire truck for Maribor airport of 58,000 and 58 million tolars. It was found here that the contracting authority did not publish the relevant criteria in the publication of this tender, which is not in accordance with Article 50 of the Public Procurement Act. By the way, this Court of Auditors has not established this, but the amount for the vehicle itself is large, but I say something else that the Court of Auditors has not established, this vehicle is relatively expensive, which was not ordered in accordance with public procurement, did not fit or comply with the needs and regulations that such vehicle should have fulfilled, it is said that it was an irregular order which was not even in accordance with the law. Such and similar cases, as well as several other cases cited by some of my colleagues, show that we did not behave rationally enough last year, as far as budget spending is concerned, that procedures have not always been conducted in accordance with the law, so personally, I will not support such a closing account or report even if it is technically or implementably prepared in some segments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u232	Thank you, colleague Hwauc. Next on the list of applicants is Dr. Matej Lahovnik. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to Marjetka Uhan. [[She's not here.]] The word has magic. Milan M. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The message and the MPs! Allow me to make a few more responses to what has been discussed so far. I repeat what was said. We have a discussion on the final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On 3 December, this government took over all the powers to lead the country, including the preparation of the final budget account for the year in which the mandate was, of course, granted. It would be correct to refer all questions to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia was also the one who prepared the material and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was the one who also responded to individual opinions or opinions from individual users by the Court of Auditors. It is true that the Court of Auditors, when drawing up the proposal for an opinion, also called on some individuals who ran ministries until 3 December, but political responsibility rests with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. These are the facts, so the voters decided on 3 October 2004. We can discuss here much about what the government could or could not spoil. I am particularly pleased that in the 20 days the government has not been able to spoil anything essential and that we have a well-finished financial year. The financial year in which there are no outstanding accounts and the financial year for which it can be concluded that, despite a number of unliquidated obligations, since the financial year in view of the government's conservative functioning before 3 December ended practically on 8 October, this did not have a negative impact on economic growth, nor on inflation. On the contrary. Economic growth in 2004 is higher than planned and there is no inflation. This is very important, because when we assess 2005 we will ask ourselves similarly whether the budget has provided an appropriate impact on economic growth and economic movement itself. It is true, however, that at the end of each financial year and, of course, having an operational finance minister, this could also be at the end of the year, the government can, in accordance with the law, ensure that, within the public finances, the obligations set out in the state budget are covered in a framework and, here, in particular, I am referring to the liabilities to the pension allowance. The government did not decide to do so, and therefore in 2005, as I said from this box, we had a covert liability for the pension fund. We have held a debate on this in the presence of both the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors on the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances, and it has been said that the law adopted by this National Assembly is at least contrary to European law and to those principles that led the Court of Auditors, and some of you here, that you have said that the balance of revenue and expenditure did not properly reflect some of the obligations, in particular with regard to the Slovenian Development Society. That is why, of course, we think it would be good to discuss what the government will do today, either in legislation, in order to eliminate the grounds for the negative opinion of the Court of Auditors. In its first opinion, the Court of Auditors said that it gave the government a negative opinion on the work of the Ministry of Finance, because of course there was no financial settlement calculation. At the same time, the Minister of Finance and Minister Žagar brought into the National Assembly amendments to the Law on the Financing of the Communities and silenced the negative opinion which, of course, meant that appropriate systemic change should be made in the Law on the Financing of the Communities. And this same government, after being pointed out to the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, says it will do so by means of the law on the implementation of the budget for 2006 and 2007. The government, whose Minister of Finance, as President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finances, is here somewhere behind me several times in this National Assembly, explains how untransparent Slovenian public finances are. Slovenian public finances are sufficiently transparent in view of the documentation that came into the National Assembly. But I don't know if there's any political will, at least lead the working bodies to deal with this documentation. In my opening remarks, no one, apart from the work bodies led by the opposition, dealt with the Ministry's case report, which they covered. Your wish, as we have seen today, is to explain much in general, but when specific documentation is to be considered which confirms how individual programmes have been implemented, of course this is no longer your will. From this point of view, I would like to point out in my debate in particular that I believe that we have a well-finished year 2004, that the methodology of the Court of Auditors is completed in 2004 and that it will be possible to carry out an audit or final account for 2005, 2006 and 2007, as far as this term of office of this National Assembly is concerned, to judge how successful the new government is in the execution of the accounts and financial plans as determined by the National Assembly. I think it would be good to have the conclusions that we have reached on the Commission unanimously, that, of course, it is a favourable budgetary financial movement, that the budget has been carried out within the framework envisaged. We know that the 2005 budget has drawn up a wrong, inadequate balance and that, despite the suspension of commitments, we have favourable economic movements. I cannot, however, as President of the Commission, and not as a Member of the National Assembly, despite the fact that the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ignores the Commission's decision to draw up a summary of the reasons for these documents before the hearing of the National Assembly. For its 350-page document, the Court of Auditors took a summary on three sides. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia with 30,000 civil servants with a few hundred employees at the Ministry of Finance and some 100 employees in the financial services of the directors did not do so. We have proposed that such a summary should become an integral part of the proposal for a final account in the coming years. I wonder, we have a German government, we have a government that does not fulfil its obligations to the National Assembly and we have a national assembly that protects this government from such acts. We will support the final budget account for 2004 in the Liberal Democracy Club. In doing so, we propose to take a decision to call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to comply with Decision No 5 as adopted by the Commission on Budgetary Control and is also in the relevant report of the Commission on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u234	Thank you. The last person on the list is Ambassador Rudi Veršnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. As usual, we have listened again to a whole series of demagogic words about how the current government has assumed commitments to the budget or the 2004 final account. We all know that the government assumed its obligations on December 3rd - and what could it have done within one month? I think it can be clear to every citizen, viewer, voter that the main institution of the accounts in 2003 is the former government. That's what I think is clear to everyone, and that's not the issue. I would also like to respond to what was said after this introductory speech that I strongly criticised the report or the closing account for 2004. That's not true. I relied on the Court of Auditors' report myself. Everything I've mentioned is in the Court of Auditors' report. I didn't make up any things, but I took it up, and I also quoted the opinion of the Court of Auditors, so I can't accept such criticism from my respected colleagues. I'd like to stop by on a subject that we've already listened to in the 2003 closing account. This is the irregularity of records in the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Regrettably, even in the 2004 report, there are no improvements in the tax administration, despite the fact that there is an information system that can meet all the needs that the tax administration has for the exact recording of all transactions it has. Moreover, these transactions must be linked, there are simply no technical reasons for this. What's going on, I think it's personal reasons or incompetence. The long-term theme of the final accounts is also public procurement. I could say that in this year's public procurement may have moved a little bit to the better. However, I am also convinced that we will certainly meet with public procurement in the consideration of the final accounts for 2005. Unfortunately, it's an eternal and unspoiled darkness. This year, the Court of Auditors also presented us with a revised audit system. We have heard a very visual presentation about this new system and, clearly, the result of the assessments is also a change in the system. There's no doubt about that. However, I am convinced that the Ministry of Health, which has received a positive assessment, is also unlikely to have been fully justified, at least in terms of what we hear at the Ministry, particularly in the implementation of investments or in public procurement. In short, a positive opinion is the question of how and how it was given. We're meeting guarantees this year, too. Last year we were talking about TAM guarantees for Automontage. This year too, unfortunately, the picture is absolutely no different. The eternal and unsurpassed theme is also that the Court of Auditors has not revised the balance sheet in 10 years or, in other words, the assets of ministries. I expect and hope that it will not be in vain to revise the balance sheet at least for 2005. Final account 2004 is behind us. I expect the 2005 closing account to be at least as good as it is for 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u236	Thank you. We have thus concluded the debate on the proposed act. All the debaters who wanted it got their word. However, since the time for discussion is still available, 42 minutes, I ask whether any of the Members and Members, under Rule 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, still wish to discuss the draft act. Please raise your hand. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision called Peace, please! [[...]] The decision is as follows: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 22 to 21. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda. In accordance with the agreement, I will now give the floor to the Acting Head of the Legislative and Legal Service, Mrs Ogrinchev. Here you go, Mrs. Ogrinchev.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In view of the questions raised by Members and Members of Parliament and taking into account the fact that we have practically answered most of these questions in our previous opinions, I am summarizing and upgrading some of the key points in our opinions. First of all, I should like to point out that the rule of law in its opinions did not refer to the principle of 'no bis and Imam', which is the prohibition of re-trials in the same matter as provided for in Article 31 of the Constitution. However, the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that it is not permissible for a parliamentary inquiry into the same case and within the same purpose of the investigation to take place simultaneously within the two Commissions of Inquiry. Although the parliamentary investigation is also open to a group of 30 Members, the parliamentary investigation is then a matter of the national assembly as such. In a situation where the procedure of the two partially competitive requirements for the investigation is not legally envisaged or regulated, it is, of course, necessary to ensure that, in accordance with the nature and importance of the Constitutional Institute of Parliamentary Investigation, the whole context of the Law and Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation is taken into account, that a parliamentary inquiry is carried out in one, i.e. only in one parliamentary commission. If such committees were to consider the same matter at the same time and then report separately to the National Assembly at the end of their term of office, they would be in a paradoxical situation. In such a case, there could be very different reports from both commissions, and it is not clear and, of course, legally irregular how the National Assembly should act in such a case. However, if it is found that the applicant for the first parliamentary inquiry does not include in this request all the essential contents of the second submitted parliamentary inquiry request, it is quite different. In this case, we are faced with two different requirements, given the definition of the subject and the purpose of the investigation. In such a case, it is therefore necessary to order both parliamentary investigations. Let us reiterate here that the legal regime does not distinguish between the opposition and coalition or any other politically qualified request for parliamentary investigation. Following the constitution, the law and the rules of procedure, this is the parliamentary inquiry, which is the domain of the National Assembly and its working body, which is the parliamentary commission of inquiry. Moreover, any parliamentary inquiry is always in the public interest and therefore not only in the interest of one or one group of Members. Therefore, all parliamentary groups are represented in the Parliamentary Commission and the final report is therefore decided by the State Assembly. A parliamentary inquiry may be requested or initiated by any group of at least 30 Members, and then from here on this investigation becomes the domain of the National Assembly as such. The College of the National Assembly on 14 November this year addressed the final amendment, namely first the correction and then the completion of the initial application with the first signed Mr Tank. At that time, the legislative and legal service found, as also shown by the magnetogram, the following. For the first time, the first request was supplemented by the fact that it was also taken over by the definition of the object, purpose and evidence from the second request, with the first-signed Mr Magi. With a drill. In this respect, the second requirement is largely covered or covered by the first requirement, but this overlap is not complete. Secondly, the subject matter of the investigation is, we have warned, defined very broad and, as such, questionable in terms of the conduct of the whole investigation during this term of office of the National Assembly. The applicant should therefore consider whether the Commission of Inquiry can carry out its task within the time available. The Mercator case has a priority in the request, but the applicant should take into account any more precise proposals made by the applicant of the second request in this respect. In this respect, we point out that, according to our assessment, the priority treatment means that Mercator is starting to deal with the matter at the very beginning of the mandate of the Commission of Inquiry, which is one of its first meetings. This is at the same time or in parallel with the first case and the request submitted by 39 Members with the first-signed Mr Tank. A key part of the explanation set out in the second request is summarised in the explanation of the completed initial application. At the same time, however, explanations or purposes that are contrary to the purpose pursued by the proposers of the other request are also mentioned in the explanation. And this contradiction should be eliminated by the proposer. We also insist on these warnings now. In particular, taking into account today's debate in the National Assembly, we must point out our warning about the partial contradiction of the explanation of the requirement, as it could be concluded from the debate of some Members that this contradiction will, of course, be further deepened in the work of the Commission of Inquiry, which significantly reduces the possibility of implementing that purpose of parliamentary investigation in Mercator, which comes from the second request with the first-signed Mr Mag. With a drill. We believe that this contradiction should be eliminated, as any consideration of the fact that the request made in this part of the second part is correctly summarised in the context of the completed initial request would be disregarded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u238	Thank you, for your position. This also concludes the debate. Procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the context of this procedural proposal, I would like to thank the Legal and Legislative Service for this complementary opinion. I must say that it has made me very happy and also confirmed some of my assessments on the subject that we are dealing with today. However, it explained something about the fact that the legislative and legal service in this opinion did not refer to a principle that is otherwise in force in criminal law "not bis and idem" and is therefore the President of the National Assembly, who repeatedly referred to this principle when he explained why he rejected the establishment of an investigative commission, which we proposed to the 31 members of the opposition, that it was simply an untruth to the public. Otherwise, Mrs Ogrincheva said some other things that are very merciless in assessing whether the President of the National Assembly acted correctly when he did not even put our proposal on the agenda. She pointed out that there are still some things here, let's say that only partial overlap in both proposals is both a request for an investigative committee, so that these investigative commissions that are being proposed do not entirely overlap that some contradictions and more other things should be eliminated. I will, and my colleagues will read this opinion and we will examine it. But at first sight it is clear that what we have said is true. The President of the National Assembly should have placed our request on the agenda and it is not true that, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Commission, he has called and that he has justified his decision to prevent the establishment of our commission of inquiry. Let our public think of it. I don't doubt that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u240	Peace in the hall, please. You must know, my dear colleague, that your proposal was not procedural. I left you with an explanation, and I didn't interrupt because I shared an opinion with you. Peace in the hall. As chairman, I'll be adjourned in 15 minutes. I invite all the leaders of the parliamentary groups or their deputies to report to room 215. Please, if we can do this as soon as possible and yes, in room 217, I apologize that we can proceed with the meeting. The meeting is expected to continue at 8 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we continue with the adjournment of the agenda. At the meeting announced by the presidents, we discussed the work of the Parliamentary Commission with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, namely the need for further coordination, which will begin immediately in the coming days, namely the question of the priority treatment of Mercator and the question of who will lead matters under this mandate. We now proceed with this interrupted point, namely Mr Bevk, a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u242	Mr President, I do not think we have agreed on anything special at this meeting. In the LDS and Social Democrats Group, they have proposed to agree on this before the beginning of this agenda item or today's meeting of the National Assembly, so I think that our proposal has not been taken into account and would be correct, and this was also a proposal in consultation to end this agenda item and to continue it. In the meantime, we could negotiate as you have suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u243	There's no debate. However, I must say that we must set up a commission and these discussions have no effect on the commission's appointment. Please, there is no debate only if it is a truly procedural proposal, Mr Squeakl. However, if you make a procedural proposal to withdraw this point or anything else, I will not put it to the vote because this meeting will be adopted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u244	Mr President, thank you for your word. I think it would be good if, given the proposal that we wanted to make and that we sent to the ruling coalition's Group before today's meeting, which has now been considered to break this point. We must establish an act at this meeting. We have also found at this meeting that it is possible, given the opinion of the legislative and legal service, only two. Will 31 Members, with me as first-signed, be allowed to set up an investigative commission? Or, as has been said, will full overlap be ensured? Therefore, that the sale of the KAD and SOD shares in Mercator will be ranked first and that the investigation in Mercator's case, as you yourself said, will be led by members of Group 31, and that an agreement will also be reached that the ruling coalition, when we investigate Mercator, will not prevent the work of the investigative commission. The proposal, I think, is correct because it allows for what has been said today. It enables full coverage, enables Mercator to be given priority and thus enables the constitutional right of 31 Members to be exercised. The termination of this agenda item, which would of course mean that we do not conclude this regular meeting of the National Assembly, and this is, of course, possible, would mean that an agreement can be found at that time, in particular the response of the ruling coalition to the written initiative of the two parliamentary groups, the Liberal Democracy Club and the Social Democrats' Group, and such an agreement could take full account of the demands of both groups of Members at that meeting. I do not propose a postponement, Mr President, I propose an interruption of the point. I propose that the meeting remain open until an agreement on this, and I suggest that you put this to the vote. If you put this to a vote, you will only confirm what you yourself said at the council. On this basis, we believe that, to the fullest extent, the decision of the National Assembly to break the point would ensure [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The implementation of the constitutional right of 31 Members as well. The procedural decision, Mr President, is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u245	Thank you very much. This procedural proposal may be suspended after the third paragraph of Article 73, in order to suspend the meeting of the national assembly, end the item and the meeting of the national assembly. This proposal that we continue the rest of the points should be completed today, and this point should be terminated or the meeting of the national assembly should be suspended on this point. Did I just take a suggestion? I'm making a motion for a vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members present, 22 for them, 42 for them. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposal for an interruption is not accepted. Any other procedural proposals? Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u246	I think that this point is similar to what it was when we decided on how the question of the referendum would be drawn up, when there was no debate and it was not possible, so I am surprised that today was actually a whole day of debate on this point. My opinion is that at 10 a.m., at 10 a.m., at the request of 39 Members, the assembly found out. No vote, whether she's been on or off. The Commission of Inquiry with the first-signed Mr Tank has been established. Today's debate has been about the right of this other investigative commission or whether this requirement is sufficiently taken into account in the second requirement of this decision. My opinion is that if you have found at the consultation that there is still something else to be done, then do it in the framework of the college, in the framework of informal consultations between the parliamentary groups, but this cannot delay what we are doing or must be our doing today. If you had, I from these reports, because I heard two or three reports from a college or an informal meeting, and I did not think or at least didn't understand that all three reports were identical, so I think that what you should have done at 10 a.m. is to find out that, by the constitution and law, the investigative commission was set up without a vote, while we have completed the quorum, that the question remains open, what is the second investigative commission that we requested, 39 Members. And that's all you have to do at this point. How are you going to proceed with the meeting? I'm the reason you're stopping her. It is correct to interrupt at this point and to postpone consideration of this item to the next meeting. I'm in favour of ending this session with other points. Whether or not you will postpone it [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] We didn't vote on that. I'm sorry. No, no, we're not. We voted to suspend the session. I am not talking about the suspension of the meeting, but I am talking about the suspension of the item, the postponement of the next meeting, and the conclusion of this meeting. Yes, I'm sorry! I'm sorry, it's just business. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone!]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u247	There is no debate, please, Mr. Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. [[...]] Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly on Parliamentary Inquiry, the Parliamentary Inquiry Chamber shall not vote. Therefore, I note that the National Assembly ordered a parliamentary inquiry to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to state property in the sale of shares of the Capital Company d.d. [[hereinafter referred to as:]] and Slovenian compensation companies d.d. [[hereinafter referred to as ‘the Court’]] in companies, by covering the investigation of all sales which are controversial in terms of compliance with laws and regulations and in terms of transparency and economy. The investigation covers the sale of Kad and the Court’s capital shares in companies in the following order: Sava, Management and Financing Company d.d. Kranj, Sugar Factory Ormož d.d., Gorenje d.d., Velenje, Delo d.d. Ljubljana, Autocommerce d.d., Mercator d.d. Ljubljana, BTC d.d. Ljubljana, CM Celje, Color d.d. Medvode, Dolenjska banka d.d., Dom Smreka Maribor, Emona, Krmila d.d. Ljubljana, Etol d.d. Škofja vas, Gorenje print Kranj, Hotels Palace d.d. Portorož, Integral Jesenice, Intertrade, ITS d.d. Ljubljana, Intes d.d. Maribor, Jata d.d. Ljubljana, Jata Reja d.d. Ljubljana, Kovintrade d.d. Celje, Crassus Sežana, Kruh Pecivo d.d. Maribor, Lek d.d. Ljubljana, LIV Postojna, Pivovarna Union d.d. Ljubljana, Radenska Radenci d.d., Rudis d.d. Trbovlje, Saturnus Auto equipment d.d. Ljubljana, Toplice Dobrna, ZRC d.d. Trbovlje, PPC Gorenji fair Kranj d.d., STC Celje d.d., Fructal Ajdovščina, Gruda d.d. Ljubljana, Gradis s.p.o., d.d. Ljubljana, Agrocombinat Maribor d.d., Alpetour Travel Agency, Dana d.d. Mirna, DZS d.d. Ljubljana, Gradis GP Ljubljana, d.d., GP Grosuplje d.d., Kema Puconci, Kompas Hotels Bled d.d., Kolinska d.d. Ljubljana, Melamine, Sijaj Hrastnik d.d., Svilanit, Health resort Moravci, Ingrad, Koncern d.d. Celje, Hotel Lev d.d., HTP Goreňka d.d. Kranjska Gora, Alpinum d.d. Bohinj, Hotel Jelovica Bled d.o.o., Ljutomerčan d.d. Ljutomer, Mineral d.d., Photona d.d. Ljubljana, Hotel Creina d.o.o. Kranj, Gradis TO d.d. Ljubljana, Titan d.d. Kamnik, Hotel Tourist d.d., Murka d.d. Lesce, Metalka Shop d.d., Hotel Compass Bohinj d.d., Hotel Grad Podvin d.d., Holding Delamaris d.o.o. Izola, Jasna Kranjska Gora d.d., Grand Hotel Toplice d.o.o., STT d.d. Trbovlje, Hotels Slovenj Gradec, Salonit Anhovo Holding d.d., Termo Škofja Loka d.d., SCT d.d., CP Novo mesto d.d., HTP Belvedere d.d. Izola, Comet d.d. Regret, Intereuropa d.d. Koper, Compass Hotels d.d. Kranska gora, Compass NTS d.d. Ljubljana, RTC Krvavec d.d., Terme 3000, Vipa Holding d.d., Zivila Kranj d.d. The part of the investigation which is the subject of the determination of all the facts and circumstances and the assessment of the actual situation in the sale of the capital shares of KAD and SOD in Mercator d.d., which was carried out on 30.8.2005, begins in 2006. The purpose of the investigation is to determine whether the sale of KAD and SOD shares in companies involved non-economic, non-transparent and contrary to the applicable legislation. Did these sales result in damage to state property, at what level and by which one of the public authorities is politically responsible for such sales, or whose and whose interests have led to such sales? The Parliamentary Commission is hereby designated. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry, in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, and to forward it in a decision of the national assembly, no later than at the forthcoming meeting of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - THIS IS FOR A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION ON THE ACCESS OF THE CZECH REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA, THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS, THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA, THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA, THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY, THE REPUBLIC OF MALTE, THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC OF THE CONVENTION ON THE APPLICATION OF LAWS IN THE CONTRACTED COMMUNCTIONAL COMMITMENTS, AT THE WILL OF SIGNATION 19. JUNE 1980 IN ROME, AND TO THE FIRST AND SECOND PROTOCOL ON THE CAUSE OF THIS CONVENTION. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. The vote is under way. 61 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We're moving to 22. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE CERTIFICATE OF THE BROADING TEXTS OF THE LAWS. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the Administrative Tax Act shall be confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 61 of whom voted against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing that's a confirmed law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the School Inspection Act shall be confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 58 for them, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the law on foreigners is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 for them, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Judicial Registry Act is officially clarified. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 59 for them, against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of that Act has been formally revised. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Act on Holidays and Work of Days in the Republic of Slovenia is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 58 for them, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has officially consolidated the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Firearms Act is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 60 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the State Administration Act is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 2. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the law on Members is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The officially consolidated text of the law on detective activity is confirmed. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Law on Public Assembly is officially consolidated. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Act on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia is officially revised. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 60 votes for, no one. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The law on Bludk's confessions is officially consolidated. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 60 votes for, no one. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in difficulty is confirmed. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 56 votes against 3. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Hazardous Accidents is officially clarified. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 58 for them, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item, the Assembly will consider a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the discharge of the Director and for the appointment of the Acting Director of the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, a request from the District State Prosecutor in Cyprus for a permit to initiate criminal proceedings against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, a finding on the reintroduction of the duties of Members and the termination of the management of the function of Members in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members and a finding on the termination of the mandate of the Member in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Members. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First of all, the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the discharge of the Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the discharge of Mrs Marja Majer Cuk as Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no debaters, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mrs Announcementd Discussants, and it was announced by yesterday. [[...]] Then you can explain your voice. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mrs Marja Majer Cuk as Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. An explanation, Mr. Juban? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Because of no interest in this story, and perhaps even in public, we could quickly find out the following. Let's clear this barn and take down this feud of the Slovenian People's Party. But then you can think differently. We also tried to clear up the matter on the agriculture committee where our next story was formed. The most varied was after Mr Kuster's performance, which cited several cases that had been investigated by the Supervisory Committee, the police, the inspection, the Court of Auditors - and so far they have found nothing. They haven't figured anything out yet. On the board, we had an interesting thing going on when the new supervisor said something like, "What if they're not guilty of anything, they don't admit it. They need to be taken to a secret place and held for so long to confess." We also had the following stories below. Here we have heard that this is not the director of the human party, that she is the director of LDS. Perhaps to comfort the people's party that it will be easier to vote down. But there was a story on this road, too. National television has published a story that the Fund has offered some LDS member a land that he bought and sold as unwalled. The fund was never offered to this Member land; it never sold it and it never had anything to do with it. So, a bunch of fictional stories that we're dropping off some principal today. I'm not saying it's not her fault. In the future, something else can be discovered, but nothing has been revealed until today, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I will not support this proposal myself. However, I will not support the proposal because today we do not resolve Mrs Marjo Cuk Mayer as some of the coalition wanted. The Supervisory Board, which has dealt with certain matters in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is of the coalition. And it is known which members were, in any way, media and otherwise, running rhombom according to the rules, but today we do not have Mrs Marja Cuk's guilty discharge in this place. She wrote: "For months, there have been completely unfounded reports, and I have been under inhuman pressure." I've noticed these inhumane pressures myself, and sometimes I notice that within the coalition. And if some of the personnel who have occupied places within the Ministry of Agriculture in the previous coalition have to be cleaned up in such a way as to improvise such or other affairs, but not from the United List and LDS, but from the coalition types, I would imagine a little bit if I were you, coalition friends. I can honestly tell you, if you think of us as equal partners, then act accordingly, including through some supervisors. The Prime Minister has promised some things before we signed the coalition contract, concerning certain personnel. I think some of you forget some words and even the coalition contract. The way that Mr. Kuster used some of the young men of the government to run him into this harmony, which is not the way that the coalition works, not parliamentary democracy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u251	Mr. Kangler [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u252	At the very least, I will conclude, and at least human relations in this way. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u253	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I will, of course, vote against a as b below this point. A man would expect, according to the experiences of two coalitions, in which I have already been that this opposition has also matured more parliamentary substantively. But when he enters the position, I can tell you he's a long way from that. This is one clean structure that I hoped we'd overcome as politicians after fifteen years. It's a shame that he's thrown away so full of people who are connected to these people that we're celebrating in this way. It's a pure construct and it's a shame that politics is still on it. That's why I'm against this deck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u255	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u256	I will vote against this proposal, and this is because what Mrs Hribar announced in her interview in April this year in the Saturday Annex is coming true. The way the ruling coalition works or the work of the ruling coalition, as I hear today, is to be confused with people. Whether they are successful directors, or whether they are public servants, or whether they are some who can show a good result in a certain area of activity in agriculture. Slovenian agriculture is due to the work of some people who are very easily denied by a part of the ruling coalition, whether it be Mr Kovac in Brussels, some are now a little in the way of mishap, the secretary of state, or whether the lady appointed here does not deserve such treatment. You don't mess with people. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Yes, Mr. Rupar, it is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u257	Only Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u258	Therefore, out of solidarity with the Members with whom we once formed the ruling coalition, I will, of course, vote against the proposal. Slovenia does not have many professional people and it would be good to objectively measure their contribution to the functioning of individual institutions. And I believe it would be a comparison [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The work of the lady, the current Minister, and the lady you want to resolve today has shown much and we will continue in this direction as well. [[...]] I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Look, first of all, I would like to remind you, on behalf of the Group of Members, of our position on the proposal for a decision, which just takes note of Mrs Marja Majer Cuk's wish to resign. I'd like to remember [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u261	Please, only Mr. Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u262	if you have forgotten that the race against the President or Director of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests has started in the old term, even under the mandate of the Supervisory Board of the previous composition, and that this pogrom has been launched by a member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the then opposition party, namely the Slovenian National Parties, that the President and other members of the Supervisory Board have not done their work as they should and as they should have done, according to the domestic statement. [[...]] I would like to remind you that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has resolved the situation arising from the prosecutions and outstanding cases, once again, I stress the outstanding cases because none of the investigations, both the initiation of an investigation into the Court of Auditors and the investigation by the law enforcement authorities, have been completed or have produced any results that would be the basis for any accusation made by the Director. The Government has accepted the resignation and has proposed the discharge of Mrs Marja Majer Cuk in particular in order to ensure smooth work on the basis of which it has not been guaranteed due to the long-term absence of the Director. This absence has ended by the fact that the Director has offered a resignation statement and I think it is correct to take into account the will of Mrs Marja Majer Cuk, the will of the person who has decided to stop managing a function. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Director's term of office would not expire until 2007 and that we have also supported the appointment of 26.2.2003. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have not acted against its functioning, nor in the context of the examination by the Committee on Agriculture, nor in the context of the examination of its resignation statement or the proposal for a decision on discharge on a term of office of the electoral commission. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u263	Thank you, Mr. Sušnik. Mr. Weber. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u264	Yes, on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you for your word. I would like to say that the situation in accordance with the agricultural lands and forests of the Republic of Slovenia, as it is today, is a reflection of work in the coalition and cannot be passed on either to the previous mandate or to the previous supervisory committee, but in particular to decisions and work in the current coalition. Is this related to the situation that was still in place at the time of Mary Lukačič’s leadership? Because at the time, the situation was catastrophic. Even at some point, the fund was managed by the president of the Fund’s Council, totally illegal. Many businesses failed to do so. Several hundred million damage actually occurred because the fund did not work as it should. During the period led by Maria Cukov, however, the situation was much better. The reason why the Director is resigning is certainly only because her term of office expires only in 2007 and is obviously too long for a Minister who runs the agricultural field. However, these stories need to be said if the previous point has found that there is no injury to the sale of Mercator's share, at this point, in this situation under agricultural land, you will not be able to cover this up, even less so. This is a major economic damage caused by the failure to allow the farm fund to function normally. This fund has an extremely large asset that affects individuals, companies, local communities and, last but not least, countries. And all of this was completely blocked for one year during this period. What damage is there, it will certainly be able to be measured in the amount of at least billions or more. Not to mention how much direct investment by the economy has not been made because land transport has not been enabled. Therefore, our Group of Members will not be involved in the resolution of coalition disputes and we propose that you allow the normal work of this Fund to be done, and we leave this decision to you at today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u265	Thank you, Mr. Webra. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u266	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I would like to say that we will support this proposal. It seems to us that the debate at this time is not going in the right direction, because the fact is that the lady has resigned herself, but it is true that the pressure of the media that launched the action is being pursued by one of the members of the Supervisory Committee, the previous Supervisory Committee, in public to present some of its views on what is happening in accordance with. As regards the report of the Supervisory Committee on the work of the Fund, as Chairman of the Committee, I can inform you that the Committee has adopted a decision proposing that this report be examined by the National Assembly. I do not think he has dealt with it for a few years, but this time he will deal with the report, with the conclusion of this decision, as soon as the Court of Auditors has done its work in accordance with it. And then much more will be possible to say and also to discuss thoroughly the work of the Fund. I would also like to say that we have had problems with the report of the Supervisory Committee itself. First, the problem was that the president, Mr Igor Vojtec, refused to sign it and then refused to present it to the Committee on Agriculture. Indeed, I must say this, too, that at the time we asked him to sign the report, which he then signed at our request or at the appeal of the National Assembly, that when he had to present this report before the National Assembly, he no longer had a mandate. That is why we have asked the new Chairman of the Supervisory Committee to come forward and present this report. The new Chairman of the Supervisory Committee of this report to the Members and Members did not want to read what some of our colleagues wanted, but in her presentation she responded to some of the new dilemmas, some of which were created by the newly appointed Supervisory Committee, which we appointed in this National Assembly. Of course, what it holds and what it does not hold will be said by the criminal investigation under way. The Court of Auditors has not yet done its work, and there will be plenty to say in this National Assembly about the operation of this Fund. Issues that have been brought before the public are either reprimanded or confirmed. Let me get this straight. At this point, the situation is that the National Assembly probably does not need to find out and accept that Marja Cuk has resigned, as she has informed us, for health reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u267	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to this, it's funny when for health reasons, things like that, things like that. This was a pure construct, a lynching of a man who did not fit in the context of the new leadership of this ministry, who was to many in the way, but got the right man who made the hunt on this story, for which he was properly rewarded, gone, his work successfully done, the media gathered, with the help of the assistants who did it successfully, and without any arguments, condemned, lynched. Now that it's gone, we'll be working now, the Court of Auditors, the Court and so on. Wrong way, wrong way! It doesn't matter if it's Marja Cuk, whether it's France or Joseph, it wasn't right, it wasn't right. And what the new president, who is all-powerful, of this fund, is doing will make the best order in all this story. I'm afraid not, but I'm even more scared. a director who, according to some data, has insanely poor references and will now manage the fund. I don't have one lawyer here, but I do know, because as mayor I worked with this fund, I can say that the work was transparent, correct, accurate and that I think she was doing her job well. But it doesn't fit in the context of a new painting, a new coalition that wants to lynch and remove someone in every way. I will strongly vote against this decision and this is not a good trip for this ministry, but even less for the new V.D. in this important place of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u269	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Anyone else? An explanation, Mr. Peca on behalf of the Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u270	No need. I'll be brief. They say the strange ways of God. We will support the government proposal in the Slovenian National Party. But we stopped by because you're all members of the group, so we thought it was fair to everyone else to let you know publicly that we would support the government in its decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u271	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. 62 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against 16. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Acting Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint Mr Sergi Daoli as Acting Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal addressed the electoral commission as a working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. Positions of the parliamentary groups. Mr Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u272	Good evening to all, and thank you so much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues! At the LDS Parliamentary Club, we are pleased, on the one hand, with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Acting Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, as this ends the agony in a story that obviously has a deep and strong political background. Everything that has happened and will happen today could also be said to be a hostile takeover when a large party takes over an influential city. And of course, we emphasize, unvulnerable. However, the bill for political recruitment and measuring power within the ruling coalition will and has already been paid by Slovenian citizens and citizens who were unable to participate in the Fund's affair as a bill of law, since, due to the absence of a politically incompatible director, not all ongoing transactions were carried out as they should have been. The tsunami, despite the waves of public opinion that has been strengthened from day to day, is still collapsing and leaving behind a decommissioning, as it is obviously more successful in demolition than in new construction. Apparently, the crop is also ploughing more and more. This one is bad for a nation. We're obviously a witness to the story today. Of course, the fund is not something like that. It is a state-owned forest and land manager, a fund for selling, broadcasting and awarding concessions. The value of assets in management is close to 300 billion tolars, about as far as the giant Telekom is concerned. However, under Article 20 of the Fund Act, he is also committed to returning agricultural land and forests to previous owners, in accordance with the rules on denationalisation, which is also important in this country, and solutions need to be addressed. The affair was triggered by a strange letter whose claims, despite the distance of more than half a year and the careful work of an apparently highly motivated and well-rewarded supervisory committee, have not yet been confirmed as truth. This year, a scenario that the government has already seen several times, when, at the initiative of the opposition, it "accounts" with the opposition. This time, however, the story went an interesting step further, since it is a matter of accounting within the coalition and taking over a strategically important area. It is not to be forgotten that in this way the fund is being returned, with the influence of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food itself, to this area of the inexperienced chief of staff. Of course, it is not to be forgotten that the said lady was already the director and today the last director, Mrs Mayer Cukov, has complained for a long and persistent time that the field where she should sow was not cleaned and the weeds cleaned. Perhaps it was the latter that made her health worse, which, of course, led to her resignation. In the LDS, we sincerely wish that history, in the best interests of the Slovenian farmer and the countryside, will not repeat itself with a black scenario, and that the profession will not be ruled by politics. We want agricultural land and forests to be devoted to the work and processing of the Slovenian farmer's suitable hands, not to shopping, trading and speculation. However, we want a successful job for the fund and for the performance of the director's duties, but for political support and, of course, the election is a coalition, not an opposition. The coalition will take full responsibility for the appointment and the work. We do not object to the appointment of the LDS in the House of Representatives, but we will decide on whether to vote or to confirm only our presence, whether we have a personal opinion or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u273	Thank you, Mr. Saiovic. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u274	Thank you for your word, again. In the Social Democrats Group, we believe that there is another item missing from today's meeting or this plenary session, namely the appointment of a new Minister or Minister of Agriculture. The resignation of the Director of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund of the Republic of Slovenia was one of the measures in this one-year story when we note that the Fund did not work because of the uncoordinated and uncoordinated conditions within the coalition. It is also certainly the responsibility of the Minister, who is the first to implement the agricultural policy, and also to regulate or manage policies in the area of leases, concessions, land return, both in the field of denationalisation and land return to local communities. What is the state of affairs in Slovenia, when we can see that the Fund manages 110,000 hectares of agricultural land, which represents about one third of all agricultural land in Slovenia, also manages 260,000 hectares of forests, representing about 20% of all forests. This property he manages is estimated at around 275 billion. A huge asset that is obviously dead capital that has not made any progress this year. How much damage has been caused in local communities because they have not received contracts that can be entered into the land book as owners? How many uninvested investments, because there were no land available, have been suspended? It is a matter of harming both the State, harming local communities, harming farmers, harming agricultural enterprises and also harming private capital, which could not solve its problems in a way that would be normal to use if these land managed by the Fund. This damage can certainly be measured in several billion amounts. In addition, if we add that during the period during which she completed her management of the current Minister, we can find that we have detected as much as several hundred million damages at the time, because the Fund did not function as it should, that we have met with the illegal operation of the Fund, because the management of the Fund was left to the President of the Council of the Fund and that today we are faced with the appointment of the perpetrator of the duty, which is incomprehensible after a one-year event, that it is not, in fact, the whole event of the candidate who could immediately take over all the powers of the Fund and that we can actually find out what land policy it is, what policy of leases, what policy to concessions, what policy the land transfer policy is. Once again we leave the fund to the doer of duty and this is a truly insurmountable attitude towards the far richest fund in the Republic of Slovenia. This fund, however, makes it impossible to develop in the entire area of the Republic of Slovenia through its failure. In particular, these areas are exposed to the majority of the countries in their area. We can imagine how such local communities work, such environments, where it is not possible to make exactly any investments on land waiting for a contract to be signed under the agricultural land fund. These contracts are certainly thousands, which today stand unsigned. The responsibility is so great for this situation that, we stress, we expect that, if not already at this meeting, we will appoint a new Minister or new Minister of Agriculture at one of the future. This is a solution to this situation, as the Acting Minister will certainly not be able to resolve all the situations that have arisen in line, as it all appears, and the Minister has no idea for human resources solutions. So we see a solution in a much larger step, which, in our view, is necessary if the situation in this fund is to be regulated. In the parliamentary group, we will leave the decision on how the Fund should operate in advance to the coalition. We also expect that you will take full responsibility directly and that, as I said earlier, at the previous point, we will not face the fact that no one among you is responsible for the situation, for the great economic damage that has already occurred and will obviously still be happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u275	Thank you, Mr. Webra. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Sergio Daoli as Acting Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia until the appointment of the Director, but for a maximum period of one year. You want to explain your voice? Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u276	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Squeakle! I will definitely support this proposal. At this point, however, I have a question, given the implementation of colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party and everyone else. I am interested in what we have in Slovenia a fund for agricultural land. What was the reason we set him up or set him up years ago? I haven't found that answer by today. The only thing that had been was the constant demand that the congregations should pay dearly for their property, thus transferring it to a fund that had been established by someone who knew why. And now, from all ends, we find that the fund was bad, that it didn't work, that there were no contracts, that they got sick because of the pressure, so that everything was sick there. And if any of the things I want from the new V.D. Director, it's to answer me when he's in time to figure out what this fund needs. Because except for the sale of land, for speculation and so forth, I see no meaning. I've never figured out what to do with it. And of course, some of us who were also assigned by law in the congregations to endure it, and we have not done so, today, after eight years, let us say that one parcel where one of the congregations itself wanted, we cannot carry it eight years and enter the book of the land. This was the result of the establishment of this fund. Personally, I am still asking for an answer to what this fund was intended for. I don't know the real reason and I don't see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u277	Thank you for your word. I cannot support this proposal for a number of reasons, and I will also argue. However, as the colleague who spoke before me asked our parliamentary group, he would advise him to do a little more work in the National Assembly, a little less at the local level, and to ask his Minister, Marija Lukačičeva, who was the first director of this fund, who is now also a minister in the SDS account and does not have to look back and turn to the Slovenian People's Party to give him such answers because the Slovenian People's Party was not in the government at the time. Mrs Lukačičeva, who now serves as Minister or Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, was then the Director of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and you will get the most genuine and thorough answer. Just step up to her, you don't have to ask us here. But if you want another answer, we can tell you more. I would not like to give a valuable assessment of Mr Sergi Daoli, but I think we should put a graduate lawyer on this spot with experience. After all, the fund has to be managed, has a lot of legal and other business. In view of the way in which we came to this replacement, I do not agree, I do not agree, that is how Secretary-General Tevc was suspended in the ministry, she was suspended or replaced by the Director of the Agency for Agricultural Markets, the securities, Mrs Bukovec, now Marija Cuk, probably next time the Secretary of State or someone else, but where the Slovenian People's Party is staffed, it is important to be happy to clean up. And there's another case I can show you. It's not a coalition way to work. At least the partner way works. I expect that wisdom will be in the right place at the right time and that cooperation will be a little differently than it was.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u278	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If we don't need the fund, then we don't have to replace people with an existing fund, but we do end the fund, and that's our opportunity and our task in the National Assembly to just adopt a law to end it. Then what do we do, we don't know. This replacement will harm agriculture during this period. For a gentleman who will take over for one year, we know nothing but that he is a member of the SDS. Maybe he'll do well or not. That's hard to say. But confusion will, people are scared in line and so on. And today, we've done agriculture two big favors. One is what is happening in line and what we have accepted in the previous point, that we have sent a parliamentary inspection to the embossed sugar plant. When the current owner, who is certainly swinging on the edge, will either close the factory or not close it, this time he will probably close the factory if a parliamentary inspection "fucks" him in his business or in his past. These are serious things, and as a result, most probably don't realize what's going on. Not 200 employees, 2,200 farmers will be out of work in the sugar beet area, of course not entirely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u280	Thank you, Mr. Juban. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the request of the District State Prosecutor's Office in Cyprus for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Bredo Pečan. The notice was forwarded to the District State Prosecutor's Office in Cyprus for consideration of the meeting. The notification was considered by the Commission’s mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters and we are therefore moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision, namely: the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members, concerning the request of the District State Prosecutor in Cyprus, op. KT-167/05-BMR of 14.10.2005 for the purpose of examining the criminal charge of the suspected offence of abuse of an official position under Article 261(3) of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia does not recognise the immunity of Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Bredi Pečan, and allows the initiation of criminal proceedings. We are voting on the decision. The vote is under way. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 8. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 8th item of the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a witness protection law. On Thursday, 24.11.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 9th item on the agenda - the third item on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Servants. On Friday 25.11.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been adopted in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. We're voting. Excuse me. Mr. Rezman on behalf of the delegation? Explanation of voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u281	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, I would like to say and express my dissatisfaction with the fact that our amendment was not supported and that decisions were contrary to everything we have written in the development strategy of Slovenia, contrary to what we are writing in the Lisbon Strategy, contrary to what we are writing in the framework of reforms, contrary to what we have written down and what we quoted in the coalition treaty, contrary to what the government is telling the European Union body and so on. We will oppose and vote against the will to do so, because this determination is that only public servants must, under certain conditions, be at peace, unless their boss agrees to be held, discriminatory, discriminatory so-called visas of those who are employed elsewhere, but, of course, discriminatory with regard to age. Age certainly cannot be the reason to stigmatize someone, to tell them that he is no longer worthy, to take away the rights that some others still have. We can't vote otherwise, because if we voted differently, it wouldn't be a saltoportale, it would be a purely stated fall into a sign as if a man were drunk to roll over and break his head. That way we're not used to working. We propose that the government come as few times as possible with any amendments to the Public Servants Act to Parliament, because whenever it comes, it is worse for employees. So we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u282	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 12. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to the 10th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal of the Information Commissioner Act. Yesterday 29.11.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been adopted to the amended proposal, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 6. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(against 6.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We shall proceed with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, which is a mandate-electing matter, by taking note of the report of the Commission on the reappointment of the duties of the Member and the termination of the function of the Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members and the termination of the mandate of the Member in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Members. You received material in this regard today on the bench. Does the President of the Election Commission want a word? [[No, no, ……]] On the basis of the report of the Election Commission and in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, the National Assembly took note of the following conclusions: First time. On 31.10.2005, Mr Miroslav Luci ceased to serve as State Secretary in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia and, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members of 30.11.2005, he shall therefore cease to serve as Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia. Another time. Mr Franc Pukšič of 30.11.2005 shall cease to serve as Secretary of State of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in exchange for and around the world and, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members of 30.11.2005, shall resume the function of Member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in exchange for and around the world and shall therefore cease to serve as Member of the Parliament, Mr Marjan Pojbič. Third time. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Member Miroslav Luci made a declaration on 25.11.2005 to resign from the function of a Member of the National Assembly for reasons of appointment to a position incompatible with the function of a Member in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the sixth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members, terminates the mandate of today. On the basis of this finding, I will ask the Republican Electoral Commission to determine which candidate will become a Member for the remainder of the term of office in accordance with Article 17 of the Electoral Law. Mr. Fick, Mr. Pojbich and Mr. Lucius, I thank you for carrying out their mission. But I welcome Mr Puksic and I ask him to join us. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Good night and a nice weekend.
