ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Your Honor! Before the work begins, I suggest we remember the innocent victims of a terrorist crime in London last week for a minute of silence. Thank you! We're continuing our session. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Joseph Bajc, Roberto Battelli, Ljubo Germič, Miran Jerič and Rudolf Moge. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša to the 1st item and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the Ombudsman to the 18th item, the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia to the 22nd item and the representative of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council of the Judiciary to the 24th item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting on 1 July 2005. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I did not receive a motion to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. The College of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the agenda should be extended by considering the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the public service obligations of credits hired to ensure its own participation in 2005 for projects carried out under an investment programme co-financed by the European Union and to cover the cost of interest on credit contracted by the Railway Agency for the maintenance and investment of railway infrastructure in 2003 and 2004. You received a proposal from the College on Friday, 8 July 2005. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He's not here.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the enlargement of the agenda. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The Assembly will consider this item to be the 21st item of the agenda. I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference, with the proposed addition, which we have just confirmed. We are voting on the entire agenda. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present. 69 votes against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 8th meeting of the assembly is set. I'm putting an end to this session and we'll continue at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members! I inform you that the following ministers will not attend the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia due to the suspension of the consideration of the questions and initiatives raised by Members of Parliament: mag. Janez Petty Officer, Dr. Vasko Simoniti, mag. Andrej Vizjak and Dr. Jure Zupan. The apology was sent today by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 30 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the Groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, will respond to the questions raised at the 6th and 7th meetings of the assembly, at which he did not respond due to the absence of a reply; and as the Minister will join us later, he will take part in the next meeting. Members who have submitted two questions will ask the second question after all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members have three minutes to ask the question, the Prime Minister and the ministers reply to the questions within five minutes at the most, even if the question is raised by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. I ask Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. With regard to the announcement of the questions sent, I would like to inform you that Ambassador Breda Pecan has asked three questions, which is why the issue has been withdrawn from the Minister of Transport. With regard to this point, I would like to inform you that if the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in the national assembly's bulletin. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you have received a review of the questions and initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first three questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Dr. Matej Lahovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! I would like to ask: How do you assess the implementation of the strategy and missions of the two parastating funds, the Capital Society and the Slovenian Compensation Society in 2005? I am particularly asking you this because your government has appointed a party with questionable competences at the head of both companies. This proved best last week when a person who is your client’s colleague was unable to apply to the meeting of the Koper Port Assembly. Anyone who at least lovingly engages in management knows that it is necessary to apply to such a congregation at least three days earlier if you want to participate. It's not obvious that only the people you appointed as the head of the capital company know that. I also ask you this mainly because in all four capital company funds it saves more than 259 000 Slovenian citizens for additional pension insurance. However, the value of capital company financial investments can be estimated at around 300 billion tolars. I wonder how they can do quality work with this property if they can't even do as simple operations as applying to a shareholder assembly. Empirical data show that the value of the financial investments of the two parastatal funds to which you named client people decreased by about 35 billion Slovenian tolars in 2005. In other words, about 200,000 average monthly net wages in Slovenia in the last year, 200 000 average monthly net wages, were blown to air. This is the result of the management of this property. On the other hand, we are, of course, witnessing a whole range of personnel, client appointments to administrations and supervisory councils of Slovenian companies. And this human resources tsunami is reflected in 40% lower economic growth than we saw last year. I also wonder how these persons, who are appointed to the supervisory councils by means of an explicit party key and who have questionable competences, can represent the public interest in the sale of state property. Won't there be private clienteleism interests? What control will be the possible persecution of irregularities, especially given that you have also appointed politically compatible people at the head of the police and the prosecutor's office, and that your government has apparently phased out the anti-corruption commission? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you for asking. Although many were announced, one was set up, earlier there were 15. During the time I have available, I will try to answer them. As regards the two state funds of the Slovenian Indemnity Company and the Capital Society, they operate in accordance with legislation that was adopted long ago in exactly the same way as they did before. When it comes to employees in these funds, there may have been changes in one or two percent. Otherwise, there are completely the same people. When it comes to the Slovenian Indemnity Society, an invitation to tender was issued for the Director. I don't know if there's ever been an invitation to tender before. Someone was chosen to meet all the conditions in this invitation to tender. The capital company doesn't have a new head of management yet. He's just a doer of duty. There too will be a public invitation to tender and the best people will be chosen. There have been changes in the supervisory boards and boards of the two funds because the government wants to carry out its function in a responsible manner. It does not wish to carry out its functions through those who have been placed substantially earlier and today forget to apply for various meetings of the Assembly, as it is not the task of the President of the Supervisory Board or of the Directors of the Administration to apply for each assembly of the company in which the company has a share. This is done by those who are employed there. The one in this particular case that you mentioned is "forget" in quotes, to apply. The director or head of society is responsible for not being controlled. There are many of these congregations. As many as there are, you know best. For practically every major investment you've hired a man in these funds who's taking care of it and who's responsible, and they're applying for it. A sense of responsibility is now under way, and it will likely soon be clear why this error has occurred. As far as the rest of the perceptions of staff replacements are concerned, I would find it difficult to agree that the current government is doing significantly worse than the previous one. I think he's doing much better. Also for very responsible places for which no calls have ever been issued before, public tenders have now been published. An invitation to tender was issued to the position of official, a political officer appointed in the previous term to the head of the insurance company Triglav, the largest financial institution in the country. Many capable experts have been nominated on this call. Someone who had already worked at the insurance company was chosen. I first met him myself a few days ago. Neither did any of the members of the commission know him personally before. An invitation was issued for an institution such as the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. The former director has resigned. The manager or manager who applied for the invitation was selected. I doubt there has ever been such a transparent process. Instead of a policy at the head of the New Bank of Credit, Maribor was set up as the perpetrator of an obligation by someone who has already worked in this administration and is not a politician. And there are a number of other institutions where there has been no political recruitment, but precisely the elimination of the consequences of political recruitment in the past. If I go back to the two funds, let me say that when it comes to the Slovenian Compensation Society, it is not a key problem where the Member sees it, but the key problem is that it has insufficient resources, given the obligations that have been imposed on this company, and that for last year, for 2004, it has shown a loss of 33.4 billion Slovenian Tolars. The capital company has not lost any funds. Talking about 200 thousand lost wages is ridiculous. It operates on the same principles and at least as successfully as before. Indeed, there will have to be an overheating of the function of both funds in the system.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, if you don't believe me, I will read to you a statement from your client colleague, Mr Gomišk, who you have appointed president of the KAD Assembly. He stated that the appointment of members of the Capital Society Board was subject to coalition coordination, Finance on 17 February 20005. Mr Peter Groznik, an economist from the Faculty of Economics who refused to become a member of the board, justified this for Finance on 20 February: "I think it is political recruitment. This is neither serious nor professional nor proper. In the interests of policy interference, state property may be inoperably managed." I later told you what was going on. The value of financial investments fell by 35 billion tolars, equivalent to 200,000 average monthly wages in Slovenia. I told you that in four capital company funds, he saves more than 259,000 citizens and citizens for an additional pension and they can't care what happens to their money. As for the excuse that Mr Toplak cannot know how to apply to the congregation or that someone else is guilty, forgive me, this seems hypocritical to me. There is a principle of objective responsibility, which, when you were still an opposition Member, you faithfully cited. Clearly, as Prime Minister, this principle of objective responsibility no longer seems fashionable to you. I would also like to point out that, as far as the obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society are concerned, you were in the Demos Government, which defined the obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society, and you have thus only drawn your attention to your responsibility. I expect this government to act responsibly, appoint it to the administrations and supervisory councils of the people and to conduct a public tender in particular. There is no invitation to tender for the President of the Capital Society administration, he is acting [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] A member of your party, Mr. Toplak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u8	Thank God, Lahar. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u9	I really do not know why Mr Member has never disturbed the previous President of the administration who was a member of his party. Of course, we did not hear anything that was wrong, even though it was an eccentric policy. It would be difficult for Mr Toplak to use this title, given that he was never a Member, never performed any professional political functions. And, as I said, he's not appointed Director of Administration, he's a doer of duty. After the invitation to tender, he may, perhaps, come forward with a better one, we will see. An invitation to tender will be issued and the procedure will be transparent, as you have never provided in the previous 12 years. I also have to say that it would be difficult to agree that the Demos government is responsible for everything that has been happening with the Slovenian Compensation Society in the last 12 years, for the changes in legislation that have been taking place in this regard, for the additional obligations imposed by various laws, after Demos's governments have been gone for a long time and, let's just say, for a very modest dose of the shares of the assets of this society, when it was necessary to provide the equivalent also on the income side. That's the problem we're going to solve. This is likely to be the case for all of us in the National Assembly, because there will be a need for legal change.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. You want a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u11	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I would like the State Assembly to hold a debate on the response of the Prime Minister, which I justify with the following. The Prime Minister did not respond in any way to the business damage caused by the operation of the two para-national funds; I mentioned the figure of 35 billion tolars of fumes. Likewise, the distinguished Prime Minister did not respond adequately to public calls and the appointment of independent experts to these places. I therefore ask that the National Assembly hold a debate. Because, as I said, the issue concerns all citizens and citizens. In the Capital Society alone, it saves more than 259,000 citizens and citizens and they cannot care what happens to their assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. We will vote on the proposal tomorrow at the time of the vote. We are moving on to the second question that Mr Franc Horvat will ask the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister! The failure of negotiations on the next financial perspective and uncertainty about the outcome and time of possible agreement requires an additional alternative strategy and strategy for Slovenia, both in the negotiations itself and in the capacity to draw on the European Union's resources. This must be the country's predominant national interest. In view of so far not the best experience in drawing resources from a number of small programmes, the question arises whether it would not be good to direct proposals and requirements for large infrastructure and environmental projects, for example, co-financing the construction of motorways, the fifth corridor project and so on. There is a great need for funds on these programmes. The dynamics of construction are very important, and the importance of these projects is, for example, the pomurski arm of the motorway to the Hungarian border and other roads, for more coherent regional development. A number of these projects have the necessary documentation, and we also have a very capable construction operation to carry out these projects. The programme absorption of European Union funds is largely ensured in this area. In addition to faster executions for the national economy and for the people of important projects, it would be possible to mobilise the European Union's resources for these purposes in the national budget for other projects at national and local level. So I ask you, Mr President: Does the government have a strategy? What strategy to obtain and use as much as possible from the European Union funds, which could bring the development goals of Slovenia closer and more effectively closer to the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and achieve more coherent regional development more quickly?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you for asking. The answer is yes. In this direction, it is possible to look for some solutions in terms of strengthening or accelerating the absorption of European funds. In part, these funds have already been used up for some major infrastructure projects. Further, it is for these very reasons, which have been mentioned and which I would not repeat, that this can be further strengthened. The government has recently adopted a strategy for the development of Slovenia. A national development programme for the period 2007-2013 is being prepared, we have adopted a plan for the preparation of this programme, and work is under way. There will also be larger infrastructure projects within this programme for which European funds can be drawn. I can mention some of them, especially in the field of transport. Some 20 million euro of cohesion funds for such projects were available in this budget period by the end of 2006. €42 million was spent on the Smlednik-Krška vas highway project. For the next period there are projects that are partly in the process of being created, some already in the final phase. Among these infrastructure projects that come into consideration, which are particularly suitable for this type of funding also through European funds, some railways, sections, such as the electrification of the Prague-Hodoš railway line, are assisted by the second track Koper-Divača, the pomurski krak highway. Surely, with some, at least partial projects, from the so-called third development axis, which will connect Slovenia from the border to Austria to the White landscape, we will also come to battle for these funds, here is the Fernian highway in the next period for which we have tried to obtain funds in these negotiations, which took place in the first half of the year. The government will certainly also try to improve the use of European funds through these larger infrastructure projects as well as environmental protection projects, but it will not neglect smaller projects. If we look at where these larger infrastructure projects will be located, but this captures about a third of the country, the remaining two thirds will be Tangled with smaller projects, which, of course, we must not ignore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you, for your word. Thank you for your answer, Mr. President. Since it is also important for the success of drawing and, of course, also for the negotiations to be organised within the government and given that you have also announced several times an appropriate organisation for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy for the Implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, I ask you: What and when are you going to do to actually organise and coordinate projects on the development of the Lisbon Strategy and on the whole relationship with the European Union, especially in the economic field, to ensure that the maximum withdrawal in the negotiations and also in the drawing itself is actually ensured? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you, too, for this supplementary question. This is where things go according to the program. As already mentioned, the strategy for the development of Slovenia was adopted. This week, a government procedure is under way for the appointment of a Reform Committee or a special working group to prepare structural or systemic reforms. By establishing this group and eleven subgroups, we will operationalise these decisions. It is envisaged that by the end of September this group will then adopt a complementary concept of reforms to be addressed by the Government. This will then give rise to concrete proposals for these reforms mainly in a developmental sense, as you mentioned. That'll be the end of the year. Whether this group will also create a ministry without a development card or not, it is still impossible to respond definitively at this time. This also depends on coalition coordination. But whether it comes to it or not, the work will run smoothly. At the same time, this group will be alert to the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia. The development strategy that we have adopted is essentially the Lisbon Strategy. For us we will not do another document or duplicate the work itself, and this committee with the coordinator will be reported as the committee and the city that coordinates the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia. In any case, we will organise ourselves, or this organisation is already beginning to achieve its objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. The third question will be asked by the Prime Minister, Mr Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In Slovenia, a special programme of learning and education of specific personnel to be used in the European Union was presented in 2000 called "Fast Stream". In 2001, 12 candidates were registered or accepted in this programme, in 2002 18, 2003 11, and in 2004 included several candidates. At this point, two generations of this specific programme were completed. However, the balance of employment of people has never been made public, nor has it been the means needed to do so. As it appears, the previous government structure involved some blurring of facts and the selling of fog, since most of these people have never received employment in these relevant European institutions. So I suppose now is the time to ask ourselves: Where did the money go, how much money went, and where were these people employed? According to some estimates, about 10 million Slovenian tolars of costs are expected to go to an individual diplomat. At least that much. This means that Slovenia has spent a lot of financial resources if it has spent them on this, of course. I hope we use these people in the right jobs. Slovenia has a deficit in the European Union, and the worst thing is that we do not spend experts where we need them, but that in this way, as we did in the previous reference, we have listened to negotiators who have always come to Slovenia with speakers, we have once again completed one chapter, which means that we have once again agreed to all the conditions. Thus, the lack and deficit of these people in European forums can now make us lose the opportunity to participate both in financial means and in decision-making. That is why, Mr President, we ask you: how many of these highly educated officials are working today in the European Union institutions and how much tax money has the country spent on this? In addition: How much expertise is there in the European Union at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you so much for asking. First, let me say that the basic objective of this programme is to train people to make better progress in the European Union institutions' employment competitions. It is said that this is some help to individuals who want to get jobs in the institutions of the European Union in Brussels. As you correctly listed, four generations have left Slovenia so far. The complete figures are for the first two who have completed this training. Of these first two, 31 participants from July last year also ran for seats in European institutions. Among them were successful seven, which is 22.6%. And these are I think that you are already fully employed in the institutions of the European Union for an indefinite period of time. The other 24 works in the state administration in Slovenia, two working at the Permanent Representation in Brussels, in places where they are likely to be trained after these courses, 11 of them work in ministries from which they have run for these courses, in European affairs. At that time, eight of them went to other jobs in other ministries. However, three have left their jobs in the state administration and are not even employed in Brussels. How much this training has cost Slovenia, unfortunately, it does not have this information. This part of the question has been announced, but we can look into it later. Of course, this can be obtained at any time and we will communicate in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I would ask the Prime Minister to send this information as well. At the same time, I ask: Will Slovenia use those who have not successfully completed this school during its Presidency of the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u27	Above all, I think it is useful to use those who have completed education but have not received employment in the European institutions. Most of those still working in the state administration are working in such places that they are also involved in the preparations for the presidency. How it is possible to use those who have not successfully completed this school, I do not know, probably less than those who have successfully completed their schooling. Of course, we'll look into it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. This concludes the questions raised to the Prime Minister. When I first read the apologies for the absence of ministers, I ignored that Mr Andrej Bajuk would be absent from 5 p.m. At the 6th and 7th meetings of the National Assembly, the MEPs are mags. Milan M. Cvikl and Aurelio Juri asked questions sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl. Since the Minister was not present at the meetings and the Members requested an oral reply, the Minister will reply to them below. I therefore ask Minister Dimitri Ruple to answer the question raised by the mag first. Milan M. Cwickl, with regard to the envisaged establishment of a centre to help bring the European Union closer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with the assumption in the question raised by my fellow Member of the Commission that the European Union's helping centre is one of the important institutions. The government sees this centre as an instrument for ensuring and implementing Slovenian foreign policy priorities, particularly in the Western Balkans. Slovenia will undoubtedly be able to make an important contribution, through the operation of a centre that will take care of the implementation of aid programmes, to speed up the convergence of those countries with European standards, which will allow these countries better conditions for their gradual integration into European integration. I think about a year has passed since the establishment of this centre, at the initiative of the WHO. However, since the activities of the Centre will be part of the development assistance that is part of the foreign policy operation of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry and the government service for European Affairs have agreed that the centre will operate within or under the auspices of our Ministry. In accordance with this agreement, we are preparing a plan for appropriate steps to begin the successful operation of the Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, Minister and Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! I wanted to ask the Minister because he answered me in writing, but his written reply and what he said today is too small. I wonder: What will the government do in particular this year to activate the European Union Entry Assistance Centre? I say this because, with a large majority of the national assembly in March, in the declaration on the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia, he said that it would be the centre to help bring the EU closer to concrete assistance. I was wondering, Mr. Secretary, if you could explain to us, what kind of help is this going to be? Which countries are you going to give it to? Who's going to take part in this? For example, will you support direct assistance projects through direct cooperation programmes with institutions, such as those in Macedonia? How many programmes has Slovenia managed to include its advisers since 3 December? I estimate that this is an important strategic issue, which will, in particular, allow the Slovenian economy to operate even better in the area of South-Eastern Europe as a result of the continuation of enlargement. I would therefore ask if you could be as precise and accurate as possible in your response. Although we have already received the first answer from the ruling coalition to this question. The amendment to provide additional money for the operation of this centre, which will be established at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was rejected. That is why I would like to ask Mr Bajuk, my colleague, to provide money from the reserve or otherwise this year. If you don't, then of course it's not expected that we'll be the anniversary of the operation. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This centre was waiting for a living center, but the center would die. Thank you very much. Please, if you're specific.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you for that additional question. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member to the fact that my colleague, Minister Bajuk, does not give money to other ministers or to anyone, but this High Council decides on this. The problem that we faced when we got, so to speak, to assess and manage this centre, was that so far, only a small amount had been provided as a starting capital, so to speak, 5 million dollars had been provided. We have actually had to reorganise ourselves in view of the new situation in the EU, given the new situation in this government. As far as the statute is concerned, there will be no misunderstanding now. The Statute was adopted only at the end of the previous year, or just before the start of the new government. We also inherited some materials from the previous government, including records, from that conference you organized. It's still in processing. Let me say that, in the meantime, 12 countries, of which 6 EU Member States and 6 candidate countries or countries with a European perspective, have appointed their representatives to the Supervisory Committee. We believe that the task of the centre is related to increasing development aid. Members and Members are likely to know that Slovenia will be obliged, in accordance with the conclusions of the European Council in June 2005, to provide official development assistance to at least 0.17 GDP, with an increase to 0.33 by 2015. The business orientations of the centres resulting from the establishment act will be made concrete on the basis of a whole range of agreements and additional acts, bilateral agreements concluded with the countries of the Western Balkans in which the areas of cooperation are drawn up. With regard to cooperation with a wider society, let me say that the centre, which is of wider importance in implementation, will include universities, the Chamber of Commerce, NGOs and other institutions. And we'll be at one of our next meetings. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the new administration.]] On the handlebars. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Squeakl, would you like a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u35	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would suggest that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, the National Assembly decide to hold discussions on this at its next meeting. The Minister's response is too limited, and we particularly want to discuss in the National Assembly how the government will adopt what the State Assembly has proposed and the National Assembly has accepted that the Centre is a concrete form of aid, how the government intends to do so this year. We regret that the proposal was not adopted when this High National Assembly discusses the national budget balance. If this proposal had been adopted, the Government had opposed this proposal, Mr Foreign Minister and Minister of Finance, and it was in some way contrary to the decision only in the National Assembly that the European Union's aid centre would be the key lever that would help to enforce the Slovenian policy of further enlargement of the European Union. We therefore believe that, on the one hand, the economic importance of further enlargement of the European Union into Southeast Europe is in the face of all the problems that arise and the obvious intentions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because, of course, it visited neighbouring Croatia when you returned today from Srebrenica, where the whole European Union and the whole world realises that it is likely that the enlargement process of the European Union should continue for countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, that this should be discussed. In this debate, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should present concretely what it will do, when it is activated at the centre and once we have been able to revive two centres in the Republic of Slovenia in recent years, the first is a mine action centre, and the second is a centre for so-called excellence in public finances, so that this centre can also help bring the European Union closer to life and in this way Slovenia could play an important positive role in the enlargement of the European Union to the countries of South-Eastern Europe. I would ask if, when deciding on this tomorrow, we would also vote on this proposal and discuss the lack of adequate response of the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. We will vote on the proposal tomorrow at the time of the vote. The second question to which you, Mr Minister, owes you an answer was raised by Mr Aurelio Juri, on further agreements with the Republic of Croatia on the route of the border on land and sea. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! We have signed a declaration, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the avoidance of incidents. This signature, or this declaration, is a reflection of the will and desire of both governments that Slovenia and Croatia, as neighbouring countries, create and strengthen their relations in the spirit of European principles of dialogue and trust. With this statement, we have committed ourselves to avoiding unilateral acts in the search for solutions to all open issues and to implementing this agreement or declaration in a consistent manner. At the same time, they will consistently implement what is the central point of this Agreement or this statement, the known SOBS - the Agreement on Border Transport and Cooperation, which was, as you know, established in 2001. The declaration states that it recognises the state until the border issue has been resolved, respect this situation on 25.6.1991. As a result, it is also stated in the declaration that the State will avoid actions that could prejudge the final solution of the border between countries in the search for border solutions. Of course, we have no guarantee that there will be no incident at the border, no problem. Such assurance cannot be given. However, we believe in the well-intention of the Croatian government, its representatives with whom we have signed this declaration, so we believe that the Croatian government will do its utmost to prevent potential incidents. I must say that such arrangements and such arrangements have already been made, and that we have in fact prevented a rise in tension or occasional problems. The permanent establishment of a state in which Slovenian-Croatian relations will not daily indicate different incidents along the border is therefore necessary in terms of the future constructive resolution of the remaining open issues, among which the border issue of course has a very important place. There's probably no need to convince anyone about this. With regard to the resolution of the border issue since September 2002, when the Croatian side has officially announced that, in July 2001, the initial and the two governments approved the treaty, the Drnovšek-Račan agreement on the state border between our countries cannot be established, so there has been no change since then with regard to the resolution of the border issue. We are, of course, prepared to wait for the moment when the Croatian side will be able to implement the agreement reached or to propose such a negotiated solution, which it will then be able to implement in reality. You know that we have a whole range of reservations about because the Croatian side of some promises, some commitments have not come true, so we are afraid that, if we say so, we would rely on a definite solution, either for arbitration or for new negotiations, so that there is no guarantee that this will actually happen. So we wait for relationships to calm down. It is known that at the end of last year they have become quite upset and then we want to use such improved relations to start a new phase of either negotiating or negotiating or just some border agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you, President. Look, good will is great, and I believe in the best interests of both governments, but the facts and developments along the border show another state, another picture. There's nothing to suggest that we'd be moving on the path of improvement, but we're maintaining the state of the incidents. I will therefore be very specific on this complementary issue. Has the Croatian side, referring to the situation on June 25th, ordered its patrol boats to stay out of the Gulf of Piran, since Croatian patrol boats have not entered the Bay of Piranhas since then? Has our government ordered the Piran administrative unit not to issue documents for construction operations abroad, because since 25 June this has not happened? It's a deal. If these things haven't been cleared up, it means that everyone is interpreting their situation on that day, which means that the incidents will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. Aurelius Yuri. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you want to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much for that supplementary question. As to what Croatia is charging its boats, you will have to ask the Croatian government. In any event, the agreement or declaration I mentioned implies that no boat stops or interferes with anyone, such as in the Gulf of Piran. Actually, I'd like to draw attention to some paradox. I have also prepared a text, which I will probably publish in Croatia if possible, if we have the will, even with us. A text that will try to explain in as simple a way as possible what is the essence of the agreement on border cooperation and transport. Taking into account the SOBS, it means that fishermen have the right to fish there from Vrsar to Ankara, in this very wide maritime area, without being hindered by anyone without interfering with their work, etc. This is me to my colleagues, and this has been explained to our police. If the Croatian side has really been able to explain the whole point of saying new enforcement or rehabilitation of SOBS, I don't know. In any event, the rehabilitation of SOBS in this declaration means that there is no need for the police to go to the Bay of Piran and either legitimise or control anyone who hunts there. There are, of course, some technical problems in this regard. These are so-called permits. In order to implement SOBS 100%, it is necessary to arrange, redecorate or revive the licence regime. However, the text I am mentioning is intended to make a real agreement that there is no need for anyone to intervene in this broad band, which includes SOBS. That's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Possonec, please. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. At the same time, I asked the question as two of my predecessors, and I expected the same answer. I got a written answer here that I don't agree with. What am I supposed to do with this written answer? I don't have a chance to object.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u44	Mrs. Possons, we'll see if you've requested an oral response. If you have requested an oral response, you will receive it at the next meeting. We'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u46	Mrs. Potrata, a procedural proposal or a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u47	He's referring to the question. I have similarly raised the oral question at the previous meeting of the honourable Minister, Dr Sturm. I too have received a written answer today that does not meet my expectations. Of course, it is a closed option for me to ask an additional question in response. I therefore ask the same question as Mrs Pozsonec: Why are we treated differently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u48	Once again, if the Member does not receive an answer or if the Minister is absent and does not request an oral response, he will receive an automatic written reply. In both cases we will check if you requested an oral response at the previous sitting, of course we will see from the magnetogram, you will receive an oral response at the next meeting. We continue with questions from Members of Parliament and Members, namely, Mr Milan Petek will raise the question of a Member to the Minister for Culture, who is absent. Do you still want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u49	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u50	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u51	I am also sorry that the Minister is absent, as many in Maribor and the surrounding area expect an appropriate response. Because the request is very up to date, I'm just setting it up without a minister, and I expect an oral response. At its last meeting a week ago, the City Council of Maribor adopted an investment programme for the reconstruction of the minority monastery and the construction of the puppet theatre in Maribor. The decision to confirm this programme was unanimously taken by all city councillors, including all the saints now present in the presence of the ruling parties, even though we had previously been informed of a letter from the minister, he was strange in our opinion, in which he therefore rejected this investment and found that he did not support it. And with one formulation that's even weirder, I'm going to read it and quote: "Looking at the co-financing of the construction of the Maribor Puppet Theatre because of the new facts [[For example, to prepare for the Presidency of the European Union 2008]] is no longer among the priorities of the Ministry of Culture." Mr Minister, I would like to remind you that no law in this country is passed by the Ministry, and so is the law on the provision of funds for certain urgent investments in the Republic of Slovenia, not by your ministry or by the previous ministry, but by the National Assembly. And the puppet theatre Maribor has been classified as one of its priorities since the basic law was adopted, as it has a special weight both at the city, regional and national levels. Therefore, according to our opinion, neither the minister nor the ministry can override the priority, but even less repeal the law itself. Now that Maribor has prepared this investment in such a long and demanding way that it can start construction this year, you have made an unreasonable and unlawful decision not to co-finance the project. If we understand your text correctly, therefore, due to the Presidency of the European Union, the priorities change so that only investments are made in Ljubljana and will therefore be built Drama SNG Ljubljana, Opera SNG, Metelkova, the total value of these investments is 11 billion, which we do not challenge, and Maribor will remain deprived of the only investment of 865 million. Mr Minister, we would like to remind you that the European Union will be chaired by the state of Slovenia and not by the city of Ljubljana. And there's one more thing. You were full of promises when you visited the government in northeastern Slovenia. With this text, you yourself have demarcated government and coalition guarantees on the decentralisation of the country and the means to do so. How you will affect thousands of children and their parents who have been waiting for normal conditions for many years to visit puppet shows may not be particularly necessary. That is why, Mr Minister, I call on you to reconsider your answer or decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Milan Friday. Mr Minister of Culture Dr Vasko Simoniti will answer at the next meeting, but he will understand the question from the magnetogram. Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pečan will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, who is still absent because he has problems in transport. Will you still ask the Minister for Environment and Space? Here you go, Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u53	Last month, we experienced one of the biggest pollutions of our sea in the last 50 years in the port of Kohorje and its immediate surroundings. Our country, which is solely responsible for the protection and management of the sea and its management - of course, the government with its ministries - has proved to be completely unprepared and incapable both of preventing pollution and of organising a public economic service for the recovery of ballast waters, as well as of the control of ships with regard to the supply of waste water, ballast water and waste, which is clear from the fact that, in the last pollution, the shipowner or commander of any of the two suspected ships has apparently not submitted a competent inspection of the documentation for the discharge of oil reservoirs in the previous port. The response of the competent national authorities and services to the notification of pollution was also extremely slow. Of course, with such equipment, the competent Coast Guard Service is not expected to do anything about it. With one single vessel purchased almost 20 years ago and intended to remove all possible pollution, from oil to solid waste, which means it was intended for everything and nothing, of course it cannot be expected to act effectively. Therefore, it is not unusual that the procedures for action against the polluter have also shown the shameful inability of officials in the competent authorities to identify, prosecute and propose punishment. It is quite funny that even the call for help in neighbouring Italy to the concessionaire of Trieste Chrismani was so late that oil spills were already managed to spread across the entire waterfront of the port and the neighbouring swimming pool and marina, thus causing more damage than tripled. However, it is important to know that the possibility of such and far worse spills is increasing. The damage that such an outflow can cause is the collapse of the entire tourist season of our country's largest tourist area, the huge ecological damage on the marine ecosystem and the terrible costs of eliminating the effects of pollution on the entire Slovenian coast. Therefore, my question to both competent ministers, Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, and Minister of Transport Janez Bozic is as follows: When will the Ministry of the Environment ensure that the Marine Protection Service is equipped with effective vessels for the cleaning of the sea, land equipment and personnel? How will the Minister of Transport take action against maritime administration officials who do not know, manage or wish to carry out all their tasks with regard to the control of vessels in our internal sea, the administration of waste, the control of ballast waters and the provision of waste water, with regard to the timely response to the release of water and mineral oils and the identification and action against the polluter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Since there is no Mr. Podobnik, do you want an oral response at the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u55	That's right. At the next meeting, I request an oral response. But I think Minister Christmas could answer his part of the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u56	When the question was raised, however, did you want to answer Mr Christmas? Yeah. When the question was raised, it was not mentioned as the one to which the question was addressed. He will therefore answer Mr Janez Podobnik's question at the next meeting. And Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u57	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u58	Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u59	So, I have announced a question that I have now brought together physically, so that we do not, Mr President, have any specific comments, because it is the same topic, which is the pollution of the Adriatic Sea, which is our territorial sea. Mr President, I think you are constantly acting with special, I will say, methods to a certain part of the Parliament. Therefore, I ask that, if so already, Mr Bozič answer the oral question at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u60	Mrs Pečanova, here I have before me your written question which you have addressed, which is originally addressed to both ministers, and then it is crossed out from your side that part of the question which is addressed to Christmas. That is why I ask the Minister whether he wants to answer, but he does not have to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In the context of the call, I would only give an answer for the part for which I am responsible, and I would briefly take this event, which took place in connection with the fuel spill. Therefore, the Ministry of Transport and Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs has repeatedly pointed out that in practice insufficiently regulated area of ship waste delivery. In order to ensure the smooth delivery of ship waste, the Maritime Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, acting in January 2005, ordered Info d.o.o. to start the temporary collection of ship waste services at the port of Kore and its centre. During that time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a regulation on the manner, subject and conditions of implementation of the State Economic Public Service for the collection of waste from vessels in the area of the Koper port of cargo and thus arranged for the delivery of waste, including oiled waters from vessels in the Kore port and also in the dock. However, the adoption of a Regulation which will regulate the transmission of waste from vessels in other ports is provided for in the shortest possible period of time. Another question related to the control of ballast waters. The International Convention on the Control and Management of Ballastic Waters and Sediments has not yet entered into force. Similarly, the Republic of Slovenia has not yet ratified the Convention and has no other national rules governing it. For these reasons, the Maritime Administration of the Republic of Slovenia or any other authority does not have the authority to carry out an investment in ballast waters. Another issue related to the release of water or oil into the sea and identification and action against the agent. The Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Pollution must act without delay in accordance with legal powers. In such a case, the marine inspector shall immediately inspect ships and shall order all necessary measures to limit pollution and identify the contaminants. However, in the event of a smaller oil spill, the Coastal Sea Protection Service, which currently performs its tasks through the Drava Ptuj VGP, is responsible for the management of the pollution mitigation action. In any event, the Head of Action and Coordination shall be the designated Service. However, if oil spills of large scales occur, the activities are taken over by the Ministry of Defence, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. In particular, in this case, as regards oil spills in the Kore cargo port of 17.6.2005, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs has in this case taken all measures to identify, and take appropriate action against, the polluter within the framework of legal competences. Thus, the port supervisor of the port administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the maritime sector is immediately following the notification of the security guard from Luke d.d. requiring the installation of a protection curtain to prevent the spread of pollution. At the point of pollution were port inspectors and maritime inspectors. The marine inspectors looked at all three ships in pool one, namely FARA G, MSC Anastacia and Blue Moon and based on the position of the oil stain and since the exterior of the FARA G was clean, it eliminated it as a possible contaminant. They inspected SC Anastacia and Blue Moon 1 ships, taking samples of machine guns, their tank and samples of the polluted sea. Both ships were ordered to leave the port until a sample analysis is known or until their insurance clubs pay bail. On the same day, both ships sent a guarantee letter, SC Anastacia of 41 000 euros and Blue Moon 1 of 40 thousand 250 euros, on which basis they were authorised to sail. On the same day, 17.6., the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs, by the Ministry of the Interior, obtained an analysis of the samples taken from those ships. However, the letter concluded that it was not possible to determine on the basis of chemical analyses which ship caused the pollution. And then we received a letter. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the same authority of 24.6.2005 that the pollution was caused by Blue Moon 1. [[...]] The authorities responsible for the implementation of measures to address the consequences of marine pollution in a particular case are set out in the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Official Journal of 62/2005. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as Minister, I will act in accordance with my powers if it is subsequently found that everything has not been done on behalf of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Pečanova, now, if you want to complete the reply, you can also answer Mr Podobnik, who has just arrived. Here you are, Mrs. Pečanova, if you would like to complete your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u63	I do not understand why I would now complete the answer, as Mr Podobnik has not yet replied.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u64	Since the time for reply has been spent on the ministerial response and a three-minute supplementary reply from Mr Podobnik can be used. Okay. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u65	Excuse me, I would suggest, Mr President, that Minister Podobnik respond to the next meeting as I have requested before.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u66	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u67	And then he'll have three minutes full. And I would ask Mr Christmas a further question if I could.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u68	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u69	Mr. Secretary, that's what I'd like to ask you. In fact, from the media, of course, we do not have any other information, it was understood that the damage caused by the wider, not direct, amounted to a million euros, which would amount to 250 million dollars. However, while the security or guarantee issued by the shipowner was, as I understand it, 41,000 euros. The question is: How will you recover this million euro of damage that our country must pay? In fact, I hope that no one expects the administration of the marina and the administration of the swimming pool and the port administration to pay the costs of removing pollution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u70	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u71	I think it's the port manager's job to recover the damage caused. It's hard to tell if it's going in the amount you said it was lower. Once the process is completed and the process is completed, we will actually know what we are dealing with. And then it will be necessary, as I have predicted, to act by the State and in some way also by the port manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you, Minister. There is still time left, Mr Podobnik, because at the next meeting, Mrs Pečanova will not be responsible for the Minister, because the time to answer this question is already exhausted by ministers. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ambassador Pecanov! I partly caused this complication myself because I just came from the Bovec. Today is the anniversary of last year's earthquake, and I was there for a meeting. I would like to answer this part of your question, which touches on a very important topic of how I will make sure that the service responsible for addressing the consequences of pollution of the sea is equipped with effective vessels for cleaning the sea, land equipment and personnel. The very important question you asked me, Mrs. Pecanova. At its previous meeting, the Government adopted a new Regulation on concessions for the management of compulsory public economic services for the maintenance of water and coastal land. This decision of the government went relatively beyond media attention, but it was no big deal. It is important that we now select the concessionaire very quickly. Who's gonna take the lead on this? Those legal persons who will have access to vessels and equipment for the provision of public service services. In accordance with this Regulation, vessels and equipment required to carry out this service may be in the possession of the concessionaire or equipment obtained from the State budget. It is envisaged that the State budget resources will be used to a greater extent for vessels intended to clean the sea surface, contaminated by swimming and minor pollution from marine fuels and discarded municipal waste. However, funds to cover the costs of the acquisition of this vessel shall be provided and shall be included in the item of the water fund. For 2006-2007 we plan to purchase this vessel. Other vessels and equipment intended primarily for the prevention of the consequences of marine accidents involving fuel spills will be owned by the concessionaire. I think that's a good solution. And a number. The planned costs for the vessel to be purchased from the water fund are estimated to be around 500 million tolars. I hope I answered your question in part.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u74	Thank you, Minister. In doing so, I received the information from the magnetogram of the previous session, when a discussion was given by Mrs Majda Potrata and Mrs Possoncheva, Mrs Majda Potrata, who asked the Minister of Justice. And there's no sign of a magnetogram that would require an oral response. So did Mrs Possonchev, who asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There's no sign of a magnetogram to request an oral response. However, both Members have the right to request a written supplementary reply within the meaning of Rule 249 of the Rules of Procedure. So much for the last question. We are moving on to the next question that Mrs Alenka Jeraj announced to the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers and ministers! The Nature Conservation Act lays down measures for the conservation of biodiversity and a system for the protection of natural values in order to contribute effectively to the conservation of nature. Measures to preserve biodiversity are measures to protect wild plant and animal species, including their genetic material and habitats and ecosystems, and to ensure the sustainable use of biodiversity constituents and to ensure the conservation of natural balance. The landscape park is defined as an area with an emphasis on the quality and long-term intertwining of a person with a great ecological, biotic and landscape value. A more detailed rules of conduct in the area of the park shall be laid down in the Insurance Act. The management of biodiversity conservation and the protection of natural values is within the jurisdiction of the State, with the exception of matters of local importance in the field of the protection of natural values, which are within the competence of the local community. Local issues are: programming and planning in the field of the protection of the natural values of local importance, adoption of measures to protect the natural values of local importance, provision of local public services, conservation of nature, popularisation of the protection of the natural values of local importance. Notwithstanding the above, the State must act if the existence of a natural value of local importance is at risk. The Ljubljana Barje is one of the southernmost bars in Europe and in the Republic of Slovenia is the only example of the lower high bar. The main feature of the Ljubljana Bar were floods that affected the natural environment and land use. Today this is largely a dry and widely processed world. In recent years, the once swampy world of the Ljubljana Bargain has changed strongly, especially with uncontrolled building. Several species of birds are nesting in the Ljubljana Bar, for which a special protection area is defined. The protection objectives for which a specific protection area is defined are: increase in grassland, improvement of ecological characteristics, increase in border limits, conservation of forest dwellings, maintenance of the existing water regime. At the same time, specific plant species and habitat types should also be established. In 1997, an agreement was signed on the proclamation of the Barje Landscape Park, which accounts for 16 thousand hectares. The regional park Barje covers major municipalities: Ljubljana, Vrhnike, Borovnice, Brezovice and Iga. The Ljubljana Barje is also covered by the Special Protection Area Regulation, Natura 2000, which entered into force on 1.5.2004. On the basis of that Minister of Environment and Space, I ask the following question: When will that special protection area be adequately protected in order to preserve or achieve the favourable status of wild plants and species and habitat types with an insurance act? What needs to be done until then within the framework of the jurisdiction of the State and within the competences of the local community in the areas covered by the Ljubljana Barriers? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mrs Jeraeva, for this question. I'm happy to ask you this question, and you're also worried. As mentioned above, a special agreement on cooperation in the proclamation of the Barje Landscape Park was signed in 1998. In addition to the port municipality, the municipality of Ljubljana, and then the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, it was signed by the municipality of Borovnica, Brezovica, Ig, Škofljica and Vrhnika. Several project groups have also been established to deal with specific areas. Some project groups were working and others were not working. In 2004 she prepared a project on nature conservation in Ljubljana Bar. The project also provides for the formal insurance of the Ljubljana Bargain at the local level. This project is supposed to last for three years. It also provides for the preparation of a starting point for the management plan, which then serves as an aid to the creation of the insurance act itself. This project has not been formally confirmed; I do not have the best data on the European Union to go through the procedure, I have unofficial information that something has gotten complicated. It is true, however, that the Ljubljana Barrier has already received European financial support from the Life Programme for the Conservation of the Skeleton Population in Bar, which is carried out by a very good Association for the Observation and Study of Birds of Slovenia. Last week, July 5th, at my initiative, there was a meeting at the premises of the Ljubljana municipality. There we were representatives of all these congregations that I had previously counted. First, we went through an agreement on cooperation between the municipalities, which we both mentioned earlier, and we agreed that the basic starting point is that the establishment of the park must not be an additional burden for the people living there, but vice versa. The establishment of parks is seen as a major development challenge, especially a faster and more complex approach to infrastructure regulation, the development of tourism, the development of agriculture, consistent spatial regulation and also the comprehensive protection of the natural environment. However, when the formal procedure begins, it is highly dependent on prior coordination of interests in the space, so that it already agrees with the drafting of the regulation as widely as possible. There are therefore no major objections if certain necessary regimes and other solutions are proposed in the congregations themselves. The professional work required for insurance - and this has been repeatedly highlighted - has already been done to a large extent. There's a lot of expert labs, we don't need new ones anymore. It is only necessary to prepare very well in the context of a public debate thesis for a government regulation. You're asking me about time. The duration of the whole procedure of adopting the regulation or the protection of the area depends very much on the active functioning of the municipalities and all other users of the premises. According to our real assessment, since the atmosphere was good, this process could be completed within three years. So, three years. When we went through the legal provisions in force, we found that we had almost 20 individual stages from the beginning to the end. Of course, we will also be able to skip some, especially because I have already said that the professional part, the basis for the regulation, is already ready. And then there's the conclusion. The entire area of the Ljubljana Bar is proposed as Natura 2000, which already provides an obligation of assessment for certain activities. In the long run, however, it is envisaged that management of this Natura 2000 area will take place through the protected area. But you haven't asked me about another subject - let's say this for the second time - how inspection services work in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? [[No, no, ……]] The next question will be posed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs by Mrs Dara Lavtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary Rupel! It is clear that Italy does not realize nearly five years old global protection law for Slovenians in Italy. In Austria, the protection of the rights of the Slovenian minority has also not improved. Moreover, the Austrian federal authorities are trying to play Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty with some constitutional law. One of the main obstacles to intervention in favour of the Slovenian minority in Austria is that Slovenia has not yet notified the succession of the Austrian State Treaty. The Czech Republic did it. By means of a diplomatic note, the Russian Federation, the successors of the Soviet Union, announced that the Austrian State Treaty was binding. From the Kremlin, this note, where they ask for an answer, was sent to all the Parties, as well as to the successors, Slovakia and the countries created in the area of the former Yugoslavia, that is Slovenia. Let me also mention that the American diplomat in Vienna, the Councillor at the American Embassy of De Tar, recently stated on the questions about the Slovenian legal succession in the Austrian State Treaty that, according to the opinion of experts at the US Embassy in Vienna, "Slovenia," I quote, "legally she is not the successor state of Yugoslavia" and that she could not have "protective functions" such as Austria in the case of southern Tyrolska - the end of the quote. This can only mean two: whether it is a sign of the weakness of Slovenian diplomacy in Vienna or Slovenia does not have a manufactured and consistent foreign policy not only to Austria, but to all its neighbours. Finally, in the case of compensation claims for denationalisation, Austria specifically referred to the second paragraph of Article 27 of the Austrian State Treaty, which recognised to Yugoslavia the war damage caused by Austrian property of rights and obligations on Yugoslav soil. Was it not in fact recognised by Slovenia as a country which, after the former SFRJ, also assumed obligations under the Austrian State Treaty? Mr Minister, I ask you: What did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do to gain support from the United States, Great Britain, the Russian Federation and France in order to recognise the status of the Republic of Slovenia as the successor of the Austrian State Treaty? When does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to notify the succession of the Austrian State Treaty to the Russian Federation, which is the depositary of the Treaty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Bebler. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. The last sentence of your question is, or last, what the government has done to gain support from the United States, Great Britain, the Russian Federation and France. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, of course, obtained support from all of these countries on your part, and we have also obtained some good advice from these countries of the original Signatories of the Austrian State Treaty, these countries. In accordance with these advices and in accordance with our policy, in accordance with the possibilities for influencing the global situation, international law, etc. We have done as we have done, and we will continue to do so. How, I will try to explain only by my modest powers according to what I know. So, with regard to the succession of the Austrian State Treaty, we have a particular problem with the Austrian side. In fact, they claim one thing, we claim another, and each country in some way recognises the right to claim what it claims. Notwithstanding the differing views on the question of Slovenia's formal legal status in the Austrian State Treaty, Austria nevertheless - regardless of all media interventions, regardless of some of the assumptions on your part - clearly recognises that Austria's State Treaty and its Article 7 is an undisputed international obligation of the Republic of Austria, which it is, of course, bound to respect. Austria also recognises that the Republic of Slovenia is a legitimate protector of the Slovenian minority and its rights in Austria's Koroška and Stajerska. Recently, on Slovenian TV we watched an interview with the Austrian ambassador, who also rightly warned that it was the duties of Austria to its own population, to its own minority, to the Slovenians, to the citizens of the Slovenian family. Well, about the American diplomat's statement in Vienna. Although I do not think it is so important that we should come to the text of the question in such a way, I would say, honourable Members and fellow Members of Parliament - nevertheless. Regarding this statement, this gentleman is written by Michael De Tar, and he said that according to experts from the embassy, his embassy, of course, Slovenia is not the legal successor of the former Yugoslavia and also cannot act as a protector state as Austria in the case of southern Tyrol. In this regard, it should be said that only the embassy provided an explanation; it also explained the American Embassy in the Republic of Slovenia, explaining that the statement was not meant to mean that the official position of the United States of America regarding the status of Slovenia as the legal successor of Yugoslavia as regards the ADP. Despite the fact that the Republic of Slovenia has not formally notified the consequences of the Austrian State Treaty, our country is seen as a protector of the interests and rights of the Slovenian minority in accordance with Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty at all levels. In all contacts with the Austrian side, we are consistently committed to the realization of the rights of the minority under Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty. Your information on the Czech procedure is not correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u83	Yeah. So, if I understood you correctly, Mr. Minister, you said that my information on the fact that the Czech Republic has notified its legacy of the Austrian State Treaty is not correct. This is very surprising, because in several newspapers, the media have published this information, and if I recall correctly, you also once at a meeting of the Foreign Policy Committee confirmed this or confirmed your behaviour on this information. Even with regard to the American diplomatic worker in Vienna, it is nice that this was denied that this is not the position of the embassy or of the United States, but it is important to mention such a statement because it also shows in some way the thinking in some circles that are important to us. I'm just asking: When does the government intend to notify its legacy of the Austrian State Treaty? And I want to know that, and I believe our public too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Bebler. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u85	I don't know if my lady and I are going to agree on this. The Government is taking action primarily to ensure that it is successful and effective in its actions. The government is not just making a gesture, but it is trying to achieve some goal, some effect, and so on. We have been for many years - and this thing is not unknown to you because you participated in many meetings of the Committee on Foreign Policy and we have also talked about it many times - after all, you have been a diplomat and you know all the material. So, for years, we've been researching the original signatories, so to speak, the protectors of the Austrian State Treaty, what types of contracts this is, and whether we would accept Slovenian entry instead of Yugoslavia. This is actually the first time I've spoken publicly about this. I have to say that the procedure you've been advising us to do, but I'm sure you're not serious, they've advised us not to do so. We have agreed with both Austria and other countries, whose support and advice we have obtained, that Slovenia enters a regulatory or legal infrastructure that guarantees Slovenian minorities the rights we are talking about, and which also provides a limit that also provides for the resolution of property issues, etc., but we did not want to follow such a path that we should say that we did not succeed. What if what you suggest and what you would do to me, if you were less careful, if you failed, and they're actually worse off than they used to be. Slovenia did not want to create a situation that was worse than it had been before, but we have chosen a different path that ensures full respect for our rights, the rights of our fellow citizens, which ensures full respect for all those provisions that are enshrined in this Austrian Treaty of State. Whether we are trying to enter the city of Yugoslavia or not, the Treaty of Austria is in force. This Treaty contains many obligations of the Austrian State and it is the duty of the Austrian State to defend them and to defend itself against the obvious, against the world public and against many, many other forums, and [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Majda Potter will ask Mr Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministerial assembly, distinguished minister Dr. Beast! When you present yourself before the performance of your post at a meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, you have assured, among other things, that you do not think, I quote, 'to intervene radically in such a sensitive system as the school system'. The system, the social subsystem that shapes, forms people, personalities. And any foolish slaughter in such an important area can have disastrous consequences. In the following, you spoke of two, according to your most pressing issues related to primary school, this is a level study and an expert. Allow me, two more clues from the answers. "I will allow myself, or I will try to convince the professional services that we will review the matter thoroughly again and, if they persuade me otherwise, of course, there will be no abolition of the level of teaching." Well, as the level learning was used in an ivy case, we know. And a third reference. "We haven't spoken or written down, we haven't even written it down, but we certainly won't do it in the last triad just like that, but we wrote that we will, I think, write that we will explore the possibility of eliminating the exteriors." And then there's the last reference. "I did not agree with the idea, as I mentioned earlier, that 'ad hockey' will change anything radically and eliminate it, because the study that was done, evaluation study, is not convincing enough. And because, on the other hand, there are not enough compelling reasons against it, if, of course, I am chosen as Minister, I will investigate the matter again thoroughly and only then, not just me, of course, with the expert bodies only then make the decision. But you can trust me that this decision will not be professional or headless." - End of story. Predicting prudence and taking into account professional opinions are, however, already forgotten if I judge by everything that has happened so far in changing school legislation and regarding the appointment and operation of professional bodies. By the way, you've been groomed by the history curriculum and the president of the historical committee in question at the general graduation. Next they interpreted, and then they went around the position of the General Education Council on national knowledge tests, overlooked the opinion of experts on the segregation of Roma children, heard the expert review of the first results of the international TIMMS study, and especially clearly your conduct became related to the appointment of members of the General Education Council and the appointment of directors. It is increasingly obvious that with human resources policy you will be directing professional decisions that will lead in the direction enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, not in the direction you have predicted. I'm asking you all: What is your strategy in designing professional bodies and appointing people to leadership functions? What additional criteria should candidates meet? How should the powers to propose candidates and to appoint candidates be allocated in the future? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u89	Dear Mr. President! Dear Members and Members! I thank you for the suggestive question. What I announced at the time in my speech, I stand behind this and I think that, in practice, during my ministry, I adhere to these principles. I still don't think it's okay if we radically interfere with a system as sensitive as education, and I don't do that either. All you've listed are relatively small interventions required by the situation. You also know what would have happened if we hadn't changed the law on education in work that talks about exercisms, what that would have meant for the Slovenian school system. I also do not accept the claim that the Brussels model, even assessed by experts from the European Office for Human Rights, is satisfactory and good. We even received a visit, and on this visit he was assessed as such. In addition to the other minor systemic changes we have witnessed so far, there is no way that we can talk about some radical intervention. These are all structures that have nothing to do with reality. It would also be good to ask questions that have been announced in the future. If I had known earlier that you would ask such an extensive question, I could have prepared an even more thorough answer for you, but in this case, the leadership of the National Assembly should have extended the time to answer. I think there will be plenty of opportunities to answer these questions. Last but not least, on Friday, if I am not mistaken, or in the future, a meeting of the Education Committee, where we will have the opportunity to discuss widely and thoroughly the issues you have set out. As far as professional bodies are concerned, let me just say I'm not a human being. If I start with the last question on this question, how should the powers for proposed candidates and appointments be allocated in the future, I think that legislation is perfectly appropriate in addressing this issue. However, the problem is elsewhere, not so much in the systemic definition as in the very composition of the professional worlds. I think you understand what I mean. The only thing I can say is that, in designing the work of professional bodies, for example, for general education, which is the most up-to-date, we have fully respected the rules of law. And that we also respect the principle of continuity, so that in all the central professional bodies - both the general education professional council and the professional and professional council for adult education - remain normally the same in this mandate and I do not think or am fully satisfied with all the presidents, Dr. Ždiber, Dr. Svetlik and Dr. Mursak, who run these relevant bodies. Of course, when the mandate is concluded, then the government has the duty to complete professional working bodies, and so has our own or our ministry, this government. In the professional world this year some members have passed their term, as you know, and we have highlighted or some procedures, the candidature procedures that have led us to get an updated composition of this world; and not just this world. But once again, the Ministry of Human Resources is only a service to the professional councils and in no way interferes with appointments. These are relatively autonomous bodies. [[..]] [[Warning signal.]] And I think they'll stay that way in the future. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you. I've really read the time-consuming questions, but it's misleading to say that I didn't ask what I was predicting, that's what you got, how I based it on substance, is another thing. I have justified only what I am trying to say to you that the disagreement with the existing expert council has been expressed several times and that I have also asked you how the general education professional council will be formed, given that I have been able to understand from the means of public information that the problem is not only for the appointment of new members instead of those who have been given a mandate, but also for the professional commissions, because how do you explain that there is a member who is a publisher on the teacher's professional committee. It's an obvious conflict of interest, I'd say. You're really saying that the professional commission has to be relatively independent, well, I would expect the professional commission or the general education board to be so self-sufficient as to help the minister design his professional decisions. It is also true that some statements can be interpreted in one way or another. I have also been spoken to by the Commissioner for Human Rights from the Council of Europe, and what I have read from the answers is that they see the effort to solve the problem, but that there will be a lot more to be done. And that, I'm sorry, doesn't exactly look like a compliment for what's been done. I certainly believe, Mr Minister, that they could at least answer me what additional criteria the candidate must meet if you do not want to answer them in public, as the current government often ensures that its functioning is transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Potter. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u93	Once again, I stress that we are talking here about the design of professional bodies and that the Minister for Education and Sport is not a staff to choose names. Indeed, here the professional councils decide autonomously to supplement the criteria that the government then confirms. Now, to talk about this, the whole process, I can also tell you how it's been going so far. We have invited ministries, but all those who can propose, chambers and unions, in short, those who can propose candidates by law. Here I can also read these letters more precisely, where we have explained the appointment process to them and invited them to propose their candidates for the cities that have been perfected. That's the whole story. On the position you have towards the assessment of these external experts on the Izlín case, I reiterate that this model has been adopted with understanding. For the last time, I also explained it to the representatives of UNICEF, and they also expressed their full understanding of such a solution to the problem and even stressed that Slovenia is highly protected and protected by such rights in the field of education as well. And it is agreed that next year we will prepare an international symposium on the protection of Roma rights and freedoms in the field of education in Slovenia, which means a nice recognition to our country in this area. I would ask you to be more specific about where I have violated or tried to violate the autonomy of this world than you mentioned earlier in the question. In no way did I illegally intervene in the appointment process itself. On the contrary, it seems to me that this was the first time the government legally appointed all members of the professional councils.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you, Minister. The following Mrs Maria Pozsonec will ask the Minister of Transport of Mags a question. Janez Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! Minister of Transport, Mr Mag. Janez Bozič, please tell the Slovenian public clearly and unequivocally: Is the financing structure for the construction of the part of the highway from Lendava to Beltinci? I would like to know: Why the envisaged sections of the construction of the motorway and the amount of money that were on the basis of the proposal for the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the liabilities of the loan leased by Dars d.d. with the European Investment Bank for the project of Slovenian motorways 7 for the construction of the part of the highway from Lendava to Beltinc? If that's the case, then the sections have been changed, what are these new sections? I believe that this is an irresponsible act by the Ministry and a simple manipulation of a certain part of Prekmurje, which is the weakest article. Well, we can do whatever we want with him. This ten-year delay in the construction of motorways in Prekmurje, economically and demographically, was very damaging, the consequences of which cannot be rectified, especially demographically. Therefore, with all seriousness, I would like to point out that the inhabitants of G31, from then on, are no longer able to transport, mainly heavy trucks, which have tripled since Slovenia entered the European Union. It would be a shame to put people along the G3 road on the road, which will undoubtedly happen in such approaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mrs Maria Pozsonec! Thank you very much for the question you have asked me, whose answer will certainly be of interest to a large part of the population of Pomur. I can assure you that the financial structure for the construction of the motorway section from Lendava to Pink has already been provided with an annual plan for the development and renewal of the 2005 motorway, approved by this respected assembly on 19 April 2005. In order to refresh my memory, the structure of the resources of the annual development plan and the renewal of the 2005 motorway for sections of the ferry highway provided for the following provision of financing for its construction; and the financing of construction with EIB loans totalling EUR 250 million is foreseen for sections from the Pesnica to the Beltinci. As you know, all last week, activities took place on Parliamentary Committees on Foreign Affairs, Transport and Finance, all of whom gave a green light in order to realize this credit, which will allow for the accelerated construction of the motorway by 2008. And a second time. For the construction of the section from Lendava to Pinc, the issuance of bonds, debt securities or short bonds amounting to EUR 360 million, the realisation of which is foreseen in the annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways for this year, of which EUR 70 million is allocated for this section. The proposal for an agreement and guarantee law for liabilities in debt securities issued amounting to EUR 360 million is already in the process of cross-cutting with the Ministry of Finance. There's something else I'd like to say quite frankly here. Despite the heavy traffic situation on the G13 main road, due to more than 100% of the increase in freight traffic, which follows the 5th international transport corridor from Eastern European countries to Italy, which the EIB has not found any arguments that it would also anticipate the construction of sections from the Beltinians to the Slovenian-Hungarian border, as the PLDP or the previous annual traffic in this part does not exceed 10,000 vehicles per day, but that the share of trucks in the PLDP is more than 60%. Therefore, this part of the motorway will be financed by issuing bonds of EUR 70 million, as I have already stated. In doing so, I should point out that the tendering procedures for the construction of the section from Lendava to Pink are under way in accordance with the statutory steps envisaged and I see no reason for this section of the motorway not to start building in the autumn, as was the case with the Ministry of Transport throughout the guaranteed. As regards the section from the Beltinians to Lendava, I should also say that at the end of March 2005 a regulation on the State site plan was also adopted and that all the necessary activities relating to land and real estate purchases are already under way and project technical documentation, PGD or PZI projects are being developed. The call for construction and the construction of this section itself will take place next year when the 2006 Annual Development Plan and the reconstruction of the motorway will also provide a source of financing for the construction that will be completed in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you, Minister. Mr Davorin Terčon will ask the Minister of Health the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, Dr. Bručan. I'm curious. On what criteria did the government appoint its representatives to the councils of health institutions where the Council members representing the State were replaced? What instructions did she give them for the appointment of new directors in cases where there was a replacement of directors? I am aware that each new authority wants to influence the implementation of policies in specific areas also at the implementation level, and therefore also replaces its representatives in the holy institutions that carry out the public service. I do not object to this in cases where it turns out that they do not play their role or represent the interests of the State. However, it seems unacceptable to me that the government is replacing the state's representatives simply because of the fact that the new state representatives are members of the political parties that are part of the ruling coalition and that it does not matter whether they are people who are familiar with health and health care issues. In doing so, the government is irresponsibly interfering with such sensitive activities as health institutions. The latter also applies to directors. The criterion for their choice should not be merely their political affiliation or the political affiliation of their family members. Otherwise, we can already talk about clientelism, the inadmissibility of which, in the previous term, was pointed out by the previous opposition or the current ruling coalition. Please, Minister, answer for the government's criteria and conduct in these cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Terchon for your question. I will not only answer about the criteria, but I will answer your entire implementation, which followed the final question. I would like to start by how many exchanges have been made in the holy institutions over the past six months, since we have a mandate in this government. The exchange of members was carried out only in those hospitals and those offices where the mandate expired: Celje, Murska Sobota, Nova Gorica, Postojna and Institute of Organ and Tissue Transplantation. Thus, we did not look at any other specialities here, except that in these cases it was for the termination of the mandate of the previous Council. Of course, in some of the councils, we have replaced those representatives of the State who, as representatives of the State, were formerly employees of the Ministry of Health or employees of the Ministry of Health and have now left it. Here we have replaced some individuals who, even in their own operations in the world of institutions, have not represented those interests that this government and this ministry wants to carry out in the field of health at that time. So it was replaced, I think, a little more than 25% of the members of these boards of institutions. The criteria by which new members of the board of institutions are to be appointed have not been written, nor have they been written in the previous period. It is known, however, that respect for the interests and health policy guidelines is needed, and, of course, also some specific expertise in this area. It is clear that these and previous governments have also set up sacred institutions on the basis of coalition coordination. In doing so, it is not the political identity of these candidates as members of the board of institutions, but rather their ability to function and also to cooperate with the Ministry. As far as directors are concerned, a withdrawal of the former Director was made at the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana at this time. The call that was then made was one of the most democratic, as far as possible. I don't think he can be any more democratic. The selected candidate is not politically bound to any political option. As far as Murska Sobota is concerned, the previous director's term of office has expired, and they've just decided to switch. As regards the hospital for gynaecology and the maternity ward of Kranj, the board of the institution also decided to apply for a candidate who was already the director of the maternity ward during this last period. As for the Koper Institute of Health, we decided not to give consent to the elected candidate in the world of the institution, because in this case there was an irregularity in the payment of salaries and, of course, it was then appointed v.d. Director. As regards the instructions given to members of the Board of Institutions for the appointment of new directors, they are not, in fact, available. I have to say, in most cases, we don't use any guidance at all. In any event, the invitation to tender at the end of the term of office shall take into account all relevant rules laying down both the conditions for appointment and the procedure for appointment itself. At the same time, I would like to point out that the current legislation that provides for the functioning of public institutions has, I think, survived in some way and should be amended. I am convinced that the saints of the institutions in this form, as laid down today in the legislation, are an outdated matter and that it will be necessary to accede to the amendment of the Law on Public Institutions, where public institutions are in fact under the control of supervisory councils and boards [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] in the future. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like a further question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u103	I don't think the minister's gonna be asking me any more questions, but I'm gonna try that. Mr. Minister, you may be unlearned. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u104	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u105	And convinced. [[..]] But I do know that every story you've listed has a different side. I'm only going to tell you on one case, and this is the case of a women's and maternity hospital in Postojna, and I'm going to tell you that's not the case. You replaced the Bureau Council before the old man's term of office. With this, you were in a hurry not to appoint a director before you replaced the world. You've replaced most of the members of the world. At the first meeting, he was not appointed by the Director, but he was in a constitutional session amended the Statute, which could also make him an external member of the Council. Among the two candidates who met the conditions, the candidate was then elected at the discretion of the Council. The President of the Council even said that they had a secret vote so that there would be no doubt about correctness. I argue that, as the world has been chosen, we could also have a table vote, and would have been the chosen candidate who was elected. I do not wish to black out the elected candidate, but it must be said that her husband is the municipal councilman of New Slovenia, that in the world of the institution besides the wife of the Minister of the Interior, a member of the ruling coalition, is also sitting the Maltese knight Žalimir Bozič, and that a candidate is also sitting in the previous elections for the MP of the National Assembly on the list of SDS. And I could count it. It is more obvious that you replace members of the world with a criterion that smells like strong customerism. You also employ retired teachers in the holy health institutions. One of the candidates was not elected solely because he was once an LDS member. In the meantime, there was still an offensive and unacceptable story, i.e. the slander of Dr Merla's wife, who was not chosen solely because she belonged to the Liberal Democracy, although he is an indisputably great expert and was also replaced with others, under the headings "experts", in the world of another institution, which you, Mr Minister, are also familiar with. I could list a lot of these cases. You've been helping yourself to an area with a password about LDS clienteleism. Apparently, you took him into a bigger shovel than you used to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u107	There's quite a bit of inaccuracies here. It is true, however, that in the statute of the institution in Postojna we have determined that the President of the Council is an external member, and this is normal. I don't think it's normal for an internal member to be the head of the board of the institution. And this was somehow decided already in the previous government, so I think it's quite normal that this is nothing special and that we have done it perfectly right and in accordance with the guidelines that have been in force for a long time. Where the internal members, the Presidents of the Council of the Office, have been, in most cases, proved to be bad, and in all the future Councils of the Office we will appoint external members as the Presidents of the Councils of Institutions. As far as retired teachers are concerned, of course I don't know whether you have a particularly bad opinion about pensioners or teachers, but in any way, we chose a candidate, whom we thought, we knew that something for health care, despite being a retired teacher, knows, as well as many others who do not have a medical profession or an economist, to lead in health care. I think there are, of course, a lot of these more unsubstantiated perceptions here, and on no account can you prove to me that, at that time, we have been working clientalistly. Once again, I will say that in Slovenia's largest institution, the most important institution in Slovenia, in the Clinical Centre, we acted very apolitically and did not use any political arrangements to appoint a new director. She was selected to be the director who met all the conditions and also the condition that I myself wanted to meet with the candidate in this case, that is that she is not a doctor, because as a professional director she is already involved in the management and management of the clinical centre. And only from this point of view did they choose this candidate in the very world of the institution. I think they made the right decision, but of course in the future it will show whether the decision was right or not. For now, I think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece will raise the question to the Minister for the Economy and to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Both ministers are absent. I ask, does Mr Pece nevertheless want to ask the question? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u109	Your Honors are here! Just because of the increasing practice of the work of the Government of Slovenia, that is, the evading of ministers and ministers' duties in the framework of the National Assembly, we decided, before the day we addressed the question of the Member States, that we would address it to two persons, or two departments, for the first time, the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and the second time to the Ministry of the Economy. In good faith, I almost couldn't believe that it could happen that, despite the well-known and almost a year in advance, both ministers would be absent from today's meeting, one announced and one unannounced, according to my information. On the other hand, I would like to say from this town that I think it is almost as if - and I will use a very strong word - catastrophically that at a given moment between us in the National Assembly within the legislative branch of power, only six ministers from the entire government team are sitting. I believe that the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia should have a correct attitude towards the National Assembly and thus to citizens and citizens. I also estimate that a number of the questions that have been raised today or in the past are quite irrelevant, but this is only my assessment. However, I believe that the issues that weigh heavily and even if they do not touch just one minister, they should be of interest to the government team. That is also the question that I have announced. [[I announced it on Friday.]] related to research in the former government, namely, the Governments of the Liberal Democracy and the United List, namely, research on the real existence of the new 40,000 unemployed people in our country, who will lose their jobs due to the non-competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. And since I know that one of the main reasons for the existence of non-competitiveness is the policy or indifference of the legislative and executive branch, I have decided to ask this question. Of course, I find it rather irrelevant to ask the question of the message to the viewers and viewers and to the Members and Members present, because I will not get an answer to it. However, I would like to say from this place that I also find it unacceptable, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, that out of eight unanswered questions - some of them even go back in March - to seven people who are not directly responsible to the Slovenian National Party Group. Is it clearly ignoring the members of the SNS by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or something else? To support this, last of all, let me say that of today's five members of the Slovenian National Party that we have applied for the debate, four of which will not receive an answer due to the ignorance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen, Minister for Transport and Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, will ask the next question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, chairman. I also welcome the Minister and Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament. On 22 July 2004, the National Assembly adopted a law amending and supplementing the law on earthquake recovery and promotion of development in the Soča. The amendment of the law provides in Article 3 for development funds for the implementation of development aid measures, namely 500 million for 2006 and 400 million for 2007. The following Article also provides for specific funds for the construction and maintenance of state roads in Posač, amounting to SIT 2.2 billion annually. It should also be said that the law provided for roads in Posoča for 2005 as well, but the previous government did not provide them in the budget. In view of the burden on the population with credits for earthquake recovery, the unfavourable age structure and the high demographic threat, I believe that the law should be fully implemented in the coming years. Finally, this is also in line with the Coalition Treaty, which provides for faster development of border, less developed and demographically threatened areas. My question is also related to the transformation of cohesion regions in which the Court is likely to fall into a more developed Western region, where it does not belong after development. In my opinion, as far as the least developed area of the Western cohesion region is concerned, the Council must acquire a special status that will allow it to remedy natural disasters as soon as possible and to link transport with the centre. It should also be pointed out that in the years when motorways across Slovenia are and are being built, almost nothing is invested in the road infrastructure of Posočja. The distance of this part of Slovenia from Ljubljana is therefore increasing from day to day. I therefore ask: How much will the 2006 and 2007 budget spend on the development assistance of the Court? How much funding will be planned under that law in 2006 and 2007 for the maintenance and construction of state roads? What status or development options will the Court have within the framework of the developed Western cohesion region? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Master Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Mr Member, thank you for asking. The Act on the subversive restoration of buildings and the promotion of development in Posoča provides that in the national budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, in the budget line of the transport authority, funds are provided for the implementation of investment maintenance and for the construction of state roads on the following sections of state roads: Kranjska Gora-Vršič; Vršič-Trenta; Trenta-Bovec; Predel-Bovec; Bovec-Zaga; Žaga-Kobarid; Soča-Bača Bridge; Dolnje Trebuša-Želin, amounting to 2.2 billion tolars per year between 2005 and 2009. However, this law did not provide resources for additional investment to this extent. With or to the fact that the 2006 and 2007 budget has not yet been adopted, the exact amount of investment maintenance and construction resources for state roads in the area laid down by the earthquake recovery and development law in Sosoča has not yet been established. We are only in the course of preparing the 2006 and 2007 budgetary memorandum. It is also in production, I must say this, a comprehensive national programme for the development of the maintenance of state roads, which will also cover all necessary projects for the modernisation of state roads in Posoča. That programme will be submitted for consideration and acceptance to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the last months of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Jagar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honor! In addition to the reply, I would certainly mention what you have already said yourself that there is now a specific Soča 2006 programme, which in some ways means specific measures for the Soča area. I must say that we are also aware of these changes to the law and have already proposed an increase of 50 million in the 2005 budget balance. And this rebalancing has also confirmed this high choir. As regards 2006 and 2007, we will plan funds in accordance with the law in the draft budgets for both years. I must also mention that, during this time, in the preparation of the measure, there is a comprehensive recast of the credit conditions for 24 borrowers in the Posača for loans given. In particular, I would focus on the coming period, which is also linked to the creation of both cohesion regions. The government is aware of this problem and within the proposed law certain measures are also planned to address the problem of less developed areas within individual statistical regions. The fact is that if statistical regions were to be measured by individual municipalities, there are significant differences in internal development. The first point I would stress is that Western regions too will be eligible for cohesion funds. Approximately 50% of the funds will be eligible because the Cohesion Fund will be able to apply to the entire territory of Slovenia and there are also these large projects, such as infrastructure. The transitional period will also make it possible to access the Structural Funds. With regard to less-opportunity regions, however, the proposed law first planned to increase indirect regional incentives from 1% to 1.5% of gross product and, of course, to focus more on these areas. Specially defined are areas with special needs of 0.25% gross product, which are indeed intended exclusively for such and similar areas, but not only within the mountainous areas, but also other areas within this western or north-west parts. I must say that, even on the basis of the debate that has already been held in due course of the adoption of this law, we will also incorporate certain corrections into the law itself within the scope of the possibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Another supplementary question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Very short, with regard to roads. The law lists sections of state roads to be reconstructed. I wonder: Is documentation prepared for this purpose or is it already ready? In the event of a decision that funds will be in the budget, this is also important, and I think that the ministry had to do so in stock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u118	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thanks for the extra question. For some sections, the state of preparation of investment and technical documentation has already been prepared, but for some there is not yet, but I must say that it is being prepared intensively. It must be said that there are different difficult sections and that the scope and complexity of the documentation are different. Therefore, I must say that in all areas we are preparing or will certainly be in a position of documentation at such a level that it can be used to obtain appropriate permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The question of Mr Marko Pavliha will be raised by the Minister of Transport. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Council of Ministers and Chamber of Members. In fact, with the help of Minister Podobnik and Minister Bozič, colleague Pečanov has already written some kind of overture to my parliamentary question, which will also resolve the maritime issue and, last but not least, is not so inappropriate in view of the upcoming holiday. Recent incidents related to marine pollution, shellfish, borderline and could be listed and we can still expect such animosities during the season. So I ask again the question: Does Slovenia need a coast guard? Of course, I don't have in mind the snotty girls and boys from the popular American Bay Watch sequel, which is mistranslated by the Coast Guard. The Coast Guard, however, is in English Coast Guard, but of course a service that coordinates and combines various maritime coloured powers that are currently scattered between four ministries in Slovenia: the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Defence, the Environment and Space and Home Affairs. The idea of the Coast Guard is old. It is as old as the Slovenian state. Let me quote only a notable resolution on the direction of the Republic of Slovenia in 1991, namely that the Republic of Slovenia will develop a service or service that will take care of the control of the sea and the coast on the safety, navigational, ecological, sanitary health and fiscal area. She's gonna set up a border guard at sea. In 1992, these initiatives died due to various political interests. Then our esteemed Member, Aurelio Juri, posed a question or initiative to the four ministries mentioned in 2002 and also to the government, which led to the establishment of an interdepartmental group, which also died overnight. As a minister, I woke up this project last year from oblivion. I have practically achieved a cross-cutting convergence of different interests and have prepared the basis. After the elections, we all know we've drowned again in some kind of silence and vacuum. I therefore ask the Minister: Are you continuing to prepare for the establishment of the Coast Guard? And if the answer is positive, I respect the stage at which this project is located? And if the answer is negative, I ask him to give a reasonable explanation of his reasons for such a decision. On the basis of the different views of this government, I conclude that this project is no longer among the objectives. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u122	Mr. Minister, Master Christmas, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words and, of course, also thank you for the question to Dr Mark Pavliha, Member of the National Assembly. It is known that you, as Minister of Transport, took your own personal interest in establishing a Coast Guard as a new, unified maritime service that would combine the powers of several ministries and carry out tasks in various fields. In view of the different coastguard models established around the world, you have not identified yourself as one of the models you stand for. No regulation of the European Union from the coastal State, the Member States, shall require the organisation of maritime services within the framework of a dedicated and unified Coast Guard Service. In the question of parliament, you can also see that, since 1991, activities and discussions have been taking place in Slovenia on the establishment of the Coast Guard. Since 2002, expert and inter-ministerial working groups have been set up to examine the question of establishing a coast guard or the form of mutual coordination between different maritime services. No expert working group has so far defined the establishment of a single coast guard as an urgent and only possible solution. There are different views in the professional circles on the need for, justification and economic justification for establishing a coast guard in our situation. It is the view that the same objectives can also be achieved through better coordination between maritime services on a continuous basis and the precise definition of their common obligations. The honourable Member does not claim that, following the 2004 elections, the activities to establish the Coast Guard have been completely halted. In February 2005, i.e. this year, an internal study was produced at the Maritime Administration on the basis of an analysis of the existing organisation and tasks of the State services at sea. The organisation of State services at sea in the Republic of Slovenia, based on the following points, is proposed. Firstly, coordination is a more appropriate form than the establishment of a single Coast Guard Service as it enables both joint and coordinated action in the resolution of compatible tasks and the self-sustainment of specific tasks of individual services. Secondly, the Joint Coordination Body is intended to operate within the Maritime Administration of the Republic of Slovenia as part of an already existing vigil and rescue centre. Thirdly, the coordinating body coordinates its daily work at sea. Fourthly, it is necessary to implement partial integration in the technical field and to provide new facilities for the purpose of the wake-up and rescue service, in accordance with the European Union Maritime Traffic Control Directive. And for the last time, this is the fifth time that a regulation establishing a permanent coordination group regulates the functioning of this coordination. On the basis of that proposal, the coordination of joint cooperation between maritime services would cover the following areas: rescue at sea, maritime protection, control of maritime fishing, cooperation in the technical field in the control of the state border, control of the organisation of maritime events, inspection of sea basins, joint actions of enhanced maritime surveillance, joint exercises at sea and protective measures on ships and ports. That proposal for the coordination of joint cooperation between maritime services has not yet been finalized. It should be aligned with the ministries in which those areas are affected and a final proposal should be drawn up on the basis of a comprehensive examination. The Ministry will certainly work towards an expert and most appropriate solution in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Would you like a further question? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Minister for your answer. Coordination is certainly one of the possible solutions, but experience from the past has shown that it is not the most successful. Remember the case some year, two years ago, when we were solving a drowning surfer and the rescue lasted for about six, seven hours, to a considerable extent because different services could not be reconciled, who was responsible, either the rescue board or the maritime administration or someone else. Not to mention that it happens quite often, that, for example, vessels of all possible maritime services, when it is not necessary, and vice versa, none when necessary, either because both police boats are broken or because, for example, a military ship is the only one we have on repair. So I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister: How will this coordination take place if we do not - hopefully not - again get a call to drown in the middle of the Bay of Cyprus? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you. Again, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much for the additional question. I'd like to answer the following question to the former minister. It must have been a non-coordination in the case you mentioned. If it was coordination, then the services that I have already listed would work, but these services have not done their job. I also briefly described the tasks of coordination. I am talking about the proposal drawn up by the Maritime Office, the relevant experts, and we are now studying these proposals. However, I have not already said that such a form of resolution of this problem and of this organisation will also be carried out in practice. We are, of course, studying it and, within the framework of the Inter-Military Group, which was also established by the Government, which tackles the entire maritime area, this proposal will be finally developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč, Minister for Environment and Space, will raise the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The 1991 Housing Act, with all its amendments and additions, radically intervened in relations in the residential area. It has transformed housing rights into different new forms of lease. Many housing rights holders have been given the opportunity to buy a decent apartment and have contributed to the fact that today Slovenia is a country at the top of the private housing scale. At the same time, without their culprit and only to satisfy the interests of the former owners, it has caused great new injustices, especially for housing rights holders in denationalised apartments. Although many of our party's efforts have partly eased their position, fundamental guilt remains. They are prevented from buying their apartment under the terms of the housing law. The Association of Tenants of Housing continues to seek to exercise its rights at least before the International Forum if all national authorities have already denied them the possibility of a just solution in their country. The position of housewives, former janitors, is similar. Also with regard to their status, there have been several attempts to regulate their rights at the time of the amendment of the law, mostly by our party. Unfortunately, these efforts have also been more or less unsuccessful. The former housewives have now organized themselves into an initiative committee of housewives and the National Assembly, the Ombudsman and you, the competent Minister for Environment and Space, have sent a comprehensive and quality study on their situation with a proposal for solutions. In the Social Democrats Group, we believe that, after almost 14 years of constant demands and expectations, it is only right to re-evaluate all possibilities for redressing the injustices caused by housing law to former housewives. This is the type of task of the Minister of State, who has been holding the material of this association since about Wednesday June. For this reason, Mr. Minister, I ask you: Have you already examined the amendments and additions to the housing law transmitted to you by the board of janitors? How do you assess the proposed changes and amendments to the law? Can we expect, in accordance with these proposals or in any other way in due course, the regulation of the rights of housewives, which is now inappropriate for them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dear Member Miran Run! You're a good student of housing issues. I recall your performances in recent years and in past mandates on these issues. First of all, I would like to say that, as Minister, I have twice adopted an association that covers those owners who were residents in denationalised apartments when denationalised. I have also received a High Representative from the Council of Europe, and I think that the Council of Europe covering this area. I also received representatives of the Association of Apartment Owners twice. I was like a minister somewhere in the middle, and it's not easy to stand in some clear and clean position when you listen to each other. That's what I'm trying to say. But the theme you're opening is about housing. True, 20 days ago, I received a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the housing law, which was transmitted to me by the Initiative Committee of Housewives. The material is very extensive, and I also think that one of the professional institutions was the one that co-formed these views, which and are very, very much, I would say is in-depth, and we are studying them. The second question is how I assess the proposed changes and amendments to the law. The basic proposal is that, in the current 175th Article of the Housing Law, the tenants who carried out the work when the Housing Act was enacted in 1991, as well as the former tenants who had ceased their work without their guilt, such as retirement, while the housing law was in force in 1991, would have allowed the alternative privatisation of another apartment or the purchase of a residential apartment under privatisation conditions. However, those who did not choose to do so should be provided with a suitable non-profit flat, but should this not be possible to cover the difference between the value of the rental market and that the former tenant would only pay a non-profit rent for the use of the apartment. First of all, I have to say that from a formal point of view, these tenants who lived in these apartments, this was not a housing relationship for an indefinite period of time. That's what I think we can agree on. Another time. It was a kind of business apartment that was connected to their work as a janitor. And when we went after this history of regulating housing rights and rights of use in the period before 1991, we also found that these apartments did not actually have classical housing status, but, as the law said, a common work. It's kind of, I'd say, complicated when we're looking for a solution. The question is how to solve the problem of those who stopped their housework after 1991 and therefore had to leave. What can we do? I, as Minister, have already proposed amendments to the housing law. Here I would like to say that I do not recall when we adopted a comprehensive housing law, that the issue of housing would be one of the important issues and that it would be exposed in the procedure itself. But I could have been careless back then. In fact, this question has now been reopened. The question of renting a suitable non-profit apartment, which is one of the possible solutions, is undoubtedly linked to the fact that we do not have enough non-profit apartments in Slovenia. The decision of the ministry and the government is to try to increase it in the coming years. Second solution, covering the difference between non-profit and market rent. This is the content of the question, which then comes from my colleague Kontic. Who's gonna cover the source? According to the data we have, I think there's about 1,000 rental families in housing. 1,000 units. However, this figure is not so small in terms of financial coverage. And then there is the question of whether we could find a way for all owners to agree to sell to guarantee a preliminary right in a residential apartment under privatisation conditions. These are possible solutions that I will teach in the context of changes in the housing law. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] If any decision is made to be acceptable, I will also incorporate it into the proposed law. [[...]] Most likely, my colleague Potts will not be most pleased with my answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, first of all, thank you very much for your compliments. In my memory and the records of the adoption of the housing law, indeed, but with changes and additions, there have already been problems with certain groups. And the janitors were one of those groups. Now for your answer. I understand that for the time being, you accept that there is a problem and that in some way, you are also counting on the need to study and possible amendments to the law that you are predicting. I understand that you have correctly commented on the proposals made by a group of these janitors in their former homesteads through your committee, but that you cannot yet give a definitive answer to what and how. Therefore, I would only ask you a supplementary question or ask for an additional answer: When is it possible to expect amendments and additions to the housing law by the Ministry? Is it possible, in any event, to involve the representatives of the Housekeeping Association in the search for solutions when preparing the law, in order to eventually obtain further clarifications and seek some possible solutions so that this part and this group of citizens can be satisfied in a timely manner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you for the supplementary question. I have the ambition of adopting by the end of July a change in the housing law after inter-departmental coordination. I caution, however, that these changes will not be very extensive. We will be most concerned with the issue of subsidies. This will be a key topic in which we are trying to find a solution. However, until the conclusion of the procedure itself, I will certainly accept the representatives of this association, which cover the housing issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Milenko Ziherl will put the question to the Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian motorway cross is more or less making progress, but there are problems in connecting roads to this highway cross. In the past, when it was not built before this stage, crossings from the highway to the ordinary road were even life-threatening. Remember the first few kilometers after Arja village toll station or, say, the section at Vrba, which claimed a lot of fatalities in the past. I would like to ask myself a question about connecting roads to the motorway programme, because there are still areas in Slovenia that are less connected or difficult to reach and that is why development in these areas comes too slowly or does not come there at all. I am referring to the highway, the direction of Kranj-Ljubljana, towards Škofja Loka along the Poljanska valley, then towards Cerkne, Idrija and Tolmina. These areas are less accessible, sometimes in winter months they can take between 6 and 8 hours, especially for buses or for trucks supplying businesses. This could be a project of several ministries, as the causes or problems also concern the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Cohesion and Regional Development. With a joint performance, I believe that we could run more successfully for the European Union's funds. This route or proposed relationship is in several stages of production. Some are just ideal projects, but some are so far away that it is just before buying land or probed land. He's talking about this road connection for a number of reasons. The first reason is economic. On this route lie the places, lie the industrial centres, which have more or less successfully emerged from the problem and are, in fact, affected by poor road connections. Then it's a demographic reason. If there's no development in these places, people will move out. An environmental reason, which we have also considered on the Committee on Environment and Space, is important. The report is accompanied by a question. This link is connected to the uranium mine in closing the Žirovski vrh. Part of the rehabilitation is the industrial zone Todraž, which cannot live without road connections, then leads through the old city centre of Škofja Loka, which is under cultural protection. Then there is a regional reason, because progress needs to be made in this region. I ask the Minister: Is this route envisaged, or are plans already made, or when can we expect concrete results in this direction?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much for your words and also for your question to Member Milenko Ziherl. At the Ministry of Transport we prepared a draft national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads, which also covers road links from the Ljubljana-Kranj-ŠkofjaLoka-Poljane-Gorenja vas-Cerkno motorway and further towards Tolmin. The programme complements the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me tell you more about the link between the Ljubljana-Kranj-Škofja Loka-Poljane-Gorenja vas-Cerkno-Tolmin motorway, which you are particularly interested in. It is 93 kilometers long and is one of the most important links outside the highway. It is also of great importance for the central Slovenian and Gornji region and represents the shortest link with the Goriška region. In the spatial development strategy of Slovenia, it is defined as a road link of cross-border importance, while at the same time part of this link is also part of the internal impalement road ring. In this direction, 11 different types of measures are recorded, namely the arrangement of intersections, rehabilitation and reconstruction of buildings, construction of replacement facilities, reconstruction and overcoating of vehicles, rehabilitation of beaches, reconstructions, roads through settlements, new construction of roads and construction of transport roads of a total length of 76 kilometres and a grave estimate of 32 billion tolars. This is the estimated value of the section between the Ljubljana-Kranj motorway and Želeněn almost 13 billion tolars, and the section between Želen and Robič a good 19 billion tolars. During the journeys are especially important new construction of Trebia-Cerkno with tunnel and construction of transport roads Škofje Loka and Gorenje village. Škofja Loka will unload the city centre mainly of transit importance from the direction of Kranj and Ljubljana to the Poljanska Valley and will also take over a large part of the targeted original transport and thereby significantly improve the current inadequate transport situation, particularly in the Lower Market area, Grabna and on the part of the Poljanska road, where due to inadequate elements traffic takes place with major problems and occasional congestion. This will also significantly reduce negative environmental impacts and improve transport safety. For Škofje Loke, project documentation on the PGD and PZI projects has already been developed to a large extent. Also in progress are the purchases of land and facilities on the route of the future bypass. The new construction of Trebia-Zelin, with the tunnel, will represent the very important and at the same time the shortest link between the Upper Soča and the Upper Sava Valley, while the new construction will represent an inter-regional link and bring the valley near Soča, which represents the currently remote and slightly neglected area of central Slovenia. This course, which runs along the Poljanska Valley, will significantly improve the link between Soško and the Sava Valley through Cerkne. In most of the major projects, ideas or ideas have already been developed. The necessary documentation for major projects will be available within two to three years of the adoption of the national programme. The implementation of the registered necessary measures depends on the available financial resources, namely the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the European Funds and other resources. However, the course under consideration is envisaged for the application to the Structural Funds. Let me also mention that under the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, the construction of the Jeprca section is envisaged, the connection to the Jeprca-Stanežiče section of the Gorenje motorway leg. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Would you like another refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u141	I would like to thank the Minister for his answer. As the issue is broader, it is large-scale, perhaps an additional question. Since this section may be the longest part of the diocese, then perhaps the binding road to Todraž, both of which are quite urgent: Is there a timetable or when we can expect further steps? Otherwise, I agree and may invite the Minister to prepare a round table in Škofja Loka and we will discuss this subject a little and invite representatives of Idrija, Cerkna and all other interested parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you very much for the additional question and also thank you for the proposal made by the Member. I will be happy to attend the round table, but I expect that participation will also be from the Selska Valley, which is equally tanning this area. Last but not least, it is an important connection across the Soriska mountain to Bohinj. The village valley is also connected through the Baska Grape with the central part of Primorska. For next year we should in some way seriously stop the construction of the bishop's carriage. However, as I have mentioned, the 2006 and 2007 Memorandum is in preparation and we expect, in the framework of these preparations, that we will also find the means to start implementing these investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you. But Mr. Mag wants it. Milan Swickl to ask a question of the mission, even though he's not the Minister of Finance? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and MPs, ministers, ministers! In the absence of the Minister of Finance, who obviously had to fly to the European finance ministers' meeting, I will still ask him a question. I wonder, given the presence of members of the government, whether we should go to some virtual question-making session, given that there are no types of ministers. My substantive question is about taxes. As everyone knows, there are only two things in life: that each life has its own end, and another that it is necessary to pay taxes for the functioning of the country. In 2004, a tax reform was introduced. This has received considerable criticism, even though it is because of tax reform that there has been an increase in revenue and you were able to divide the electoral booty a few weeks ago. This criticism of tax reform was responded very quickly by the new government, with two activities. On the one hand, the Strategic Council proposes the rapid introduction of a single tax rate, on the other hand the so-called Kranjče Working Group was formed. For the strategic world, we have seen quickly that it is only a'show of economics' and that the purpose of what they have proposed is to divert attention from other problems, from the decline in economic growth, from the increase in unemployment, and, as we have seen in the first question, the ever stronger integration into the economy. In doing so, I should immediately say that the Prime Minister lied today when he said it was only the first time that there had been calls for the Chiefs of Soda and Kad. Statutes shall be applied from the Statute of the Court of Justice and Kad, which was adopted in the previous decade. However, my question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. As is known, a report from the expert group on the amendment of tax legislation has been received. This proposes a reduction in the number of income classes, a reduction in the tax burden due to the requirements of the coalition contract, but, unlike what the Minister of Finance said on 21 March, that the Slovenian tax reform, as proposed by the new government, will be income neutral, the impact of the proposals will be as much as 60 billion additional deficits. If we did not adopt some new laws this year - even this week we will adopt these laws - this would even be feasible. However, I wonder: Will the Minister of Finance really support Krajnč's tax reform? And I wonder, will the Minister of Finance support the first step? This Thursday, we will consider a bill to abolish the tax on paid salaries. Will you support the abolition of the tax on paid wages? Will the government, to the greatest extent possible, help to increase the competitiveness of the economy, growth and conservation and job creation immediately? I would like the Minister of Finance to give a written answer to this question. Then, on occasion, I will also ask for further clarification if I am not satisfied with the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. The minister's gone. Do you want to ask a question anyway? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. In the context of the question, I will first criticise the government or ministers, who actually express great ignorance with this attitude towards MEPs and MPs of the national assembly. My question was also raised in good time. In so doing, let me say that the President of the National Assembly has trained us all Members and Members in this National Assembly in fact so much that we respect the rules of procedure and order that he also ruled in the previous term, as far as questions are concerned. Unfortunately and above all, it is unfair for the government not to inform us in time of, I don't know, the absence of certain ministers from the meetings of the National Assembly. Last but not least, in the previous mandate, the practice, if not the Minister, could be answered by the Secretary-General, at least those questions that were general and touched on the work and direction of the government. This is also no longer possible in this mandate, or is the Secretary-General, and thus Members have been banned from asking Members' questions. Let me go briefly to the content of my question, which is very topical. Indeed, the State is expected to increase its contribution to compulsory pension and disability insurance and compulsory health insurance for non-employee religious workers by means of a new Law on Religious Freedom and Religious Communities. The state, i.e. citizens and citizens or taxpayers, is said to be obliged to pay about 800 million tolls a year for church officials. Of course, the additional cost also means payment of their compulsory health insurance. All well and well, if we did not have the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states in Article 7, paragraph 1, that the State and the religious communities are separate. You don't want to ask me hypothetically if the state is covering for the Church all social and other transfers of religious employees - the country of course, we are taxpayers. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Does this mean that church officials are in the service of the State? [[...]] And: So is the country of some kind of employer? If so, then the Church is a state institution, which is, of course, contrary to Article 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And to conclude, I would only like to say that I have raised this question in a broader form, given that the Minister is not present today. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in writing, I therefore do not expect an oral response at the next meeting. [[...]] But I expect a written answer within 30 days.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The question will be raised by Mrs Cveta Zalokar to the Minister of Public Administration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already submitted to the public for consideration two extremely important documents regulating the area of public sector wages. Regulation on the salaries of directors in the public sector and decree on the classification of functions in wage classes. The first will deal with an extremely large area of salaries for directors, directors throughout the public sector, both in an area largely regulated and financed by the State budget, as well as for those whose founder and financier is the local community. The basic objective of the two documents is to establish appropriate salary bases by placing individual directors, directors and secretaries in wage classes for which a range is established, by means of more detailed criteria. Mr Minister, since the talks are very intensive and the documents are expected to be adopted this month and the groups have different possibilities of influencing more concrete solutions, allow me to also present two questions as a representative of the local communities regarding the regulation of local wages. The first question is the area of public institutions whose founder and financier is mainly the municipality. These are libraries, cultural homes, youth centers, public funds for culture. These are extremely important institutions at the local level, where we want the best staff as leaders and responsible people, for which they must also be properly stimulated. We note that these institutions are a source of funding, namely a municipality or several municipalities, automatically placed in extremely low wage classes, especially compared to institutions that operate at local level, but are financed by the state, such as museums, galleries. Allow a specific example. The Director of the Public Institute of Culture, e.g. a library that operates at the level of the municipality, will be classified in the pay grade between 32 and 45, a public institution that also works in the field of culture at local level, but is financed by the State, such as a museum, will be classified in classes 45 to 51. In doing so, it must be said that the Director will have a locality, although he runs an institution with a higher number of employees and a higher financial level of resources, almost 5 classes of lower wages. Also allow me to ask you about the pay grade of the parishes and the basements. These, too, were reduced by 5 classes in the latter version. And, of course, given their powers and powers, they are classified extremely, extremely low. Therefore, I ask you: Can both of these segments still be rectified at this stage of coordination?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Minister, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you so much for asking. Well, in fact, there are two important documents in the government procedure that regulate salaries in the public sector. With these two acts, the government wants to pay in the public sector where things are within its competence and are not linked to coordination or negotiations with the social partners, and at the same time where practice has shown the most problematic or most chaotic situation. Above all, I mean here, of course, on the salaries of directors in the public sector. Of course, the decision on functional salaries aims to make the salaries of officials substantially more transparent than they have so far been since they were regulated in countless sectoral laws. At the same time, we want this state budget decree to have no financial implications or to save something from this decree and thus symbolically confirm the seriousness of this commitment that the pay reform will be financially sustainable. It is also essential to establish a fair relationship between the salaries of officials. It's also a regulation. However, by the Regulation on directors' salaries, we want to establish order in an area where this order, at least the practice shows, has not been established so far. It might be possible to start with the issue of regulation and the salaries of directors of public institutions in the field of culture. Of course, the regulation is still in government procedure and is still in interdepartmental treatment. The interests you discussed, of course, in inter-resort coordination of the representative, are represented by the Ministry of Culture, but also by the Minister responsible for local self-government and in the project group, this is a broader government negotiating group, Mr. Ivan Pristovnik as a representative of the municipalities of Slovenia. As a matter of fact, public institutions have a strong representation at local level in this project. Of course, this proposal, which has been here today, is very concrete, is very similar to the proposals we are getting in inter-departmental coordination, so we will examine it thoroughly. It is clear that I cannot promise here today that we will fully respect it and that we will examine it. Above all, it is also necessary to look at the financial implications that it would have to bring. In principle, I can say, with this reserve of financial implications, that I support this proposal in principle. About the decree. The decree has also been in coordination for a long time and has been very intensive, very intensively coordinated with representative associations of municipalities, both with the Community of Slovenia and the Association of Slovene Municipalities, in particular in the section of municipal salaries, and if you look at the latest version - therefore, the very last version will of course be the one the government will adopt and propose to the National Assembly - you will see that it corrects the injustice that was committed to the mayors and thus the local self-government after 1998 when the mayors' salaries have been drastically reduced. Thus, in the county wage segment, we can say that we are almost in line with the representative associations of the municipalities. Although their demands would be slightly higher, I think that sufficient will be done for the mayors and thus for local self-government in terms of eliminating the pay imbalances and the injustices that have been committed. There's a different situation in the parishioners. According to our assessment, the sub-martial function is not comparable to the county, however, the mayor is the executive body in the municipality. The mayor has the entire office of the municipal administration, which is headed by the director of the municipal administration, which will also be valued in the Director's Wages Regulation, so we do not think that it is possible to overestimate or overestimate the submunicipal functions, especially because we know that up to three parishes can function in the municipality. Of course, I believe that this sub-martial function is defined differently from the congregation to the congregation. In particular, I would like to conclude by stressing that, in the coalition, agreement has also been reached to a large extent on the fact that the mayoral function is to a large extent compulsoryly professionalised, that gold applies to larger municipalities, and this also entails the incompatibilities of the mayoral function with the function of Member of the National Assembly. So, ideas go this way to set somewhere a limit above the number of inhabitants the mayor should be a professional over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you. Would you like an extra one? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you very much. First of all, with regard to directors of public institutions. It is true that there have been many coordinations, but this particular segment of the local libraries has expressed a great deal of the fact that it was not included in these discussions. I have also seen a document in which the Ministry of Culture, on the question of why they cannot be paid more correctly, replied that the local mayors are opposed because they do not want any director of the public institution to exceed their salary, but I do not think that this was the correct answer provided by the Ministry of Culture. Here, too, I would like to express my full support to the local communities to raise this increase for at least three wage classes on average, because it would in fact be totally inappropriate for a source of funding not just on the basis of the number of employees, responsibilities, financial resources available to an individual public institution to make a difference at this level. Thus, the local communities and the Ministry of Culture agreed in this segment last week to support this. However, as far as the parishioners are concerned, the fact that we have actually agreed on the mayors, but in the latest version, this matter has actually taken place in May with the parishioners who will lose more than a third of their salary. There are very few professional sub-districts in Slovenia, only in major municipalities and in cases where the mayor does not perform his functions professionally. Thus, I think that the financial impact would not be great, but within the municipal administration we would also be rewarded comparatively worse than the chiefs, for example, the individual departments of the municipal administration, which I think should be reconsidered and also looked at by the higher level of other officials of the municipal administration, so that this function, which we add to it, would not be completely degraded.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr Bevk alone will put the question to the Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Minister for a thorough written answer to the question about the status of the fast road Podnanos-Vrotojba and the completion of the route towards Razdrtem. Now for today's question. In the field of transport infrastructure in Slovenia, the construction of motorways has an absolute priority. For these purposes, the money is the most. The highway cross project is progressing well, although in neighbouring Croatia we have been shown that it is possible to build faster. In no way can we be satisfied with the modernisation of the remaining state road network. In the 2005 budget balance, investment maintenance and construction funds for state roads have even decreased. Of course, it doesn't go any further. It is unacceptable to ignore the state road network at the expense of the motorway project. There is a whole range of landscapes and areas in the country that do not have an appropriate link to the motorway network. Let me mention the northern Primorsko with Posoč, Idrija-Cerkljan region and the Poljansko and Selsko valley with Škofja Loka, Zgornjesavsko valley, Kočevsko, Belo krajina, Savinja-Šalje region, Koroško, Zasavje, Posavje and of course Pomurje, and there will be some area that is far from the highway cross. In January 2003, the Minister of Transport, Jakob Presečnik, replied to my question on the preparation of the national programme for the construction and maintenance of state roads that the programme would be developed by mid-2004. Last April, as far as I know, a draft national programme for the modernisation of the national road network was drawn up for the period 2006-2015, worth around 170 billion tolars. Minister of Transport mags. I ask Janez Bozič: When will the government adopt this national programme and send it to the National Assembly? What will be the objectives and starting points of the programme? What will be the set and priority of the projects as well as the financial structure and resources thereof, and how much is the overall programme valued? Within the entire project, I am particularly interested in: how you will evaluate the national road network from Logatco to Idria and through Tolmin to Vidma and from Domžal to Škofje Loka to Cerkna via Tolmin to Vidma. Both have the status of cross-border road links in the spatial development strategy of Slovenia and are linked to the network of international remote links. I thank the Minister very much for his answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for the question. Indeed, at the Ministry of Transport we have prepared a draft national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads. The programme is prepared so that the network of main and regional roads by 2016 will be fully, I emphasise, fully renovated, updated and upgraded, while the quality level is appropriate. The aim of the programme is to preserve and achieve the level of competitiveness of the country, to improve accessibility to individual regions and to improve regional integration, to link to parts of Slovenia which are now not adequately linked to the main European road corridors, which will allow for a more even distribution of the economic benefits of Slovenia's development. The preparation of the programme also took into account the spatial development strategy of Slovenia, which defines the basic road network in the Republic of Slovenia, part of which are also mentioned road links of cross-border importance: Logatec, Idrija, Želan, via Tolmin do Vidma and Domžale, Škofja Loka, Wanted via Tolmin do Vidma, mentioned in your question. We have financially evaluated the programme and prepared two possible funding models. The investment value of the entire programme is estimated at around 750 billion tolars and the value of updating the Logatec - Idrija - Želan and Peršeti, Kobarid, Robič, which you are particularly interested in, is almost 25 billion tolars. Of this, the value is part of the Logatec - Idria section - Wanted to be estimated at nearly 12 billion tolars. Since this programme has significant financial implications for the state budget and because its implementation depends on its content and value on the way in which it is financed, we forwarded the draft programme to the Ministry of Finance at the end of June 2005 for a review and a position on the draft programme, as this is essential for the production of a quality and real basis of the programme. The RS government will send a proposal for a national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the last months of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you. Would you like some extra? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Rudolf Petan will raise the question to the Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I am asking the Minister for the Environment and Space, but it concerns the elimination of the consequences of last year's catastrophic storm with the point that most affected the Dravinjska Valley, says Slovenian Horses with surroundings, but it is not the only area. In doing so, it has been shown that the legal side or current legislation is not the most effective in the systematic resolution of the consequences of natural disasters, while preventing, say firefighters, civil protection, health care works flawlessly, quickly and effectively, but is complicated in the systematic recovery of consequences. As I mentioned earlier, since this is not the only case since last year of such a natural disaster, and unfortunately we have also witnessed a terrible storm with a hailstorm this year, I ask the minister: Is there a system law that can solve these complications? The fact is that we have already adopted intervention laws, both for the Court and for other cases. This simply means that the law that we have, which has probably solved something, is not so comprehensive that we can cover all the cases and that it is not necessary to take some intervention measures every year. I'll ask you more questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Mr. Petan! Just the fact that last year's severe storm was in the wider area of the Slovenian Horsemen on 9 August 2003, while we will adopt the rehabilitation programme in the government, I hope that in this week or next week, some of the issues that you are also raising will be discussed. First with regard to the storm, i.e. Slovenian Horsemen, Zreča and Opletnica. These three congregations were deeply affected. The programme to address the consequences of the floods and other consequences of the storm by assessing the costs of the full recovery from the baselines for the allocation of the 2005 reserves for the implementation of this programme was unfortunately not operational until after the adoption of the balance sheet, and this additional delay also occurred. I hope that, perhaps this week or at the latest next week, the government will adopt the proposal. But it's big money, 700 million tolars. It is also a very detailed distribution if you are interested, but it will also be published publicly. The largest item is the renovation of municipal buildings of high construction, 259 million tolars. Then there are others: low construction, housing and so on. Now you're interested in a topic that's systemic. We worked very well here with colleague Maria Lukačič. And also on her proposal, we have drawn up a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters. We have two objectives: more effective implementation in the field of agriculture, one goal and the other, we are thinking about complementing the law by extending the types of natural disasters, particularly for damage to public sector matters. Here I must say that Slovenia, as a Member State of the European Community, is obliged to respect the rules of the European Community common market when granting State aid. It's a very sensitive question of where this line is. State aid is therefore assessed, defined as expenditure and reduced revenue of the State or municipality, which then confers a benefit on the recipient and thus confers an advantage on the recipient against the competitors and is intended to finance and co-finance programmes in specific units dealing with the market production of goods and services with a view to providing certain competitive advantages. This is a translation of the Treaty establishing the European Community, which speaks of State aid. Now there are changes affecting agriculture. The first amendment would allow the payment of the advance payment even before the final assessment of the damage is established in order to remedy the damage caused by the natural disaster as soon as possible. This will most likely be very topical in these big latest bites in Posavje, Dolenjska and elsewhere. Or, to the greatest extent possible, to mitigate the long-term effects of natural disasters. The second amendment, if the deposit is overpaid, we are looking for a way to establish the possibility of a settlement under the condition that the injured person, who has received an overpayment over a period of three years, is entitled to the means to remedy the consequences of a new injury. Don't let a paradox happen. Someone who was injured again next year must pay back too much from the previous year. A third change, perhaps irrelevant, is important. We propose, we are looking for a way to remedy the confusion with regard to the procedures for the recognition of damage and the determination of the amount of State aid to remedy the consequences of the mass outbreak of plant harmful organisms. I'd like to remind you, it's a small group of farmers on the Montenegrin plateau. [[?]] These are the larvae of the May bug. The law in force has made it impossible for the country to enter into this rehabilitation. Now we want to find the right path so that we can help here. And another amendment is proposed. There is ambiguity of the provisions of the law relating to the calculation of State aid payments for agricultural damage, where other direct payments to beneficiaries should also be taken into account. For example, all payments to the agricultural damage beneficiary, which may not exceed the market value of the agricultural production plant on a normal hectare yield, shall be made. We are thinking about these changes, I hope to be successful in inter-sectoral coordination, that the law will come to the National Assembly as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. So I'm happy with that answer. I hope that coordination will be successful, that we will also meet with this as soon as possible in Parliament. But maybe I could just explain why I asked that question. In fact, last year, the state announced, but indeed, the most urgent intervention means for high-rise buildings, so that we could, I don't know, cover the school, kindergarten and so on. Those were the minimum resources. But the fact is, people had to fill out a bunch of forms. Then it was somehow jammed and it was said that there were no criteria by which to estimate how much one would belong to: whether these are advances or total aids, or some calculations, or the like. There were several variants, or 800 thousand tolars in general for each - with 800,000 to pay nothing - and then the rest would eventually be paid. But that's not fair to those who had no idea and a million to 200,000 damages. Because he's gonna get another 400 grand. But those who suffered 8 million damages will virtually get everything paid. This is probably a poor criterion, so I talked more or less about systemic resolution and some criteria that would be, if we could even talk about honesty in such a matter, but probably some are more real than others. So I expect that we will meet with this as soon as possible, and I hope that this week the government will adopt the order that is needed so that the funds can be released for this damage to this storm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will ask the question of the message. Sajovic Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I have two essentially questions in one set. First of all, it's about tattooing genealogical dogs. This is still mandatory in our country, and then this matter, which causes some pain to animals and a minimum cost to the owner, especially the first unpleasant experience in life at the age of three months, is added to the skin chip and made some official registration. A significant number of European countries are this tattoo, which I consider unnecessary, has already been eliminated. I think it's time we did something like this in Slovenia. Of course, the Cinological Union of Slovenia is one of our partners here, with whom we need to talk and, above all, to negotiate. I think that if we show interest and will, in particular, let the initiative be on our side and on the part of the agriculture ministry so that we can succeed. However, the second issue, which is not essentially related to the first, concerns one of the agricultural policy measures, is retirement. I think that the context of this early retirement of older people on farms is positive and meaningful, because if we take the matter to the young, it will be more effective. Agriculture is experiencing constant changes from day to day, and some of them will and will be easier to deal with and better, so I support this issue and, of course, the measure started in 2004 and is expected to continue until 2006, perhaps even longer. At this stage, the measure has experienced some of the problems that we face every day, and I do not consider my question, and I do not personally understand it as a criticism, or as an indication of some error, or as an omen, but rather as a problem in the first year that we are trying to improve and eliminate them together. I've taken the heart of this question. The Minister has received a number of minor sub-questions and questions in writing. I will not be hairy and I will not focus on each of them, but I want one correct, broad answer that solves this issue and then see where we have common problems, where we have problems and then we try to improve and solve them. To illustrate this, of course, I also cited the example of one of the farmers from Gorenjska, who addressed me with a specific question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u166	Thank you. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u167	Mr President, honourable Member, thank you very much for the question and for your concern for our pets. As you have already explained, the Veterinary Act provides that animals must be labelled in a prescribed manner and that within seven days the dog owner must report an animal to a veterinary organisation that keeps a register of dogs, as well as the death, alienation, escape or any other change in relation to the dog. The purchase of the offspring shall be notified by the holder no later than four months of age. The Regulation on the labelling of animals provides that all dogs must be born from 1.1.2003, marked with an electronic notification system, a microchip. For all data on registered dogs, veterinary organisations are required to keep a register and to ensure the transmission of data to the Central Registry of Dogs, which has been maintained by the Veterinary Board of the Republic of Slovenia since April 2003. In the Republic of Slovenia, the labelling and management of the dog register is regulated in a very comparable way as in some other countries of the European Union. The marking of dogs by tattooing uses the Cinological Association of Slovenia, as you yourself mentioned, exclusively for your needs, because this way it denotes the monk dogs it has in its records. It would probably suggest establishing a single register that would be useful for all users of this data. As for the early retirement measure, some basic data. In 2004, 197 applications for early retirement were submitted and 10 of them have already received pensions. In the following month, 30 more investors will receive a pension because the decision-making process has already been completed. Among the 197 applicants, requests were complete 15 applications in 2004. The others were invited to supplement themselves. The transferor shall receive a return pension for a period of time from the submission of the full application. This means that the first lease also includes a transfer for the entire period, from the found completion of the application to the first payment. The early retirement measure is co-financed by the European Union at 80%. For all measures, the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development must be accredited. Unfortunately, the Agency received accreditation in this year on 17 May, which is also the reason why the processing of applications and the payment of claims has been somewhat delayed. Let me draw attention to the fact that the final deadline for the implementation or payment of this measure is 2006. This is reflected in the rural development programme endorsed by the European Commission in Brussels. About the investor, Frank Langerholtz. A few specifics. The date of the submission of the basic application was 31.8.2004, the automatic completion of the application on 27 December of the same year, the additional call for the harmonisation of the actual use, since the basis is taken from the role of the actual use of agricultural land, was 13.6.2005, the invitation received on 17.6.2005, the addition to this application for land was made on 20.6.2005. At present, the decision and contract are prepared and sent to the applicant for signature. It shall be verified that the applicant does not have commercial income for agricultural activities in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation. It follows from the above that the application has been completed and will be recognised back on 27 December 2004. As far as the data is concerned, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] since the claim was made that the application was fully sent in August 2004, the Agency checked with Posta Slovenije and concluded from the assessment that the original application was 16 grams and the full role was 32 grams, indicating that it was a complete application on 27 December 2005 and will be eligible for an early retirement measure from that date. [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Would you like an extra one? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, Minister, for your answer. With regard to solving both of these problems, however, in the first part, regarding the labelling of dogs, I would suggest that we have a joint meeting with the kinological association and, of course, allow it to participate in this process of registration and labelling of dogs. For these experiments have already been done in the past, but they have simply stopped at this stage of the kinology association, because they seem to feel deprived because they are losing part of their activity. I think that one such compromise agreement is possible here, but the country of Slovenia would allow us to have a more detailed and even more accurate record in the field of dog breeding. As far as the second part of the issue is concerned, I would say that, as far as the financial possibilities of the ministry are concerned, some solutions can be found to address this problem as a matter of priority, that those who are already favourably resolved to go immediately to the payment of funds, so that, of course, the increase in farmers and rural areas in this system will increase, because imagine someone who transfers his farm to younger heirs who may not even be his relatives, and thus loses the means to survive. And in the field in practice these things are sometimes, I will say, cruel, unkindly and any effort in this area will be considered to be good and, above all, to the benefit of the Slovenian countryside and to keep this landscape as beautiful as it is now. Thank you very much for your efforts and for the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you. Is there anything else you want, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u171	Initiative, we'll definitely invite you. We will call together the Veterinary Administration and the Kinological Union of Slovenia and try to find a common solution. I certainly agree with that. With regard to early retirement, this is undoubtedly an extremely important measure, especially since Slovenian farmers are on average 56 years old, we all know that. This is one of the weaker age structures in the European Union. We have dealt with this issue recently in the world of ministers. I will try to make this measure more intensively implemented than it has been so far, but in order to have these dislikes, I would say, stalling and slow rescue, but it is certainly in this accreditation of the agency which has officially had to obtain it, I can only promise you that by the end of August all the applications will be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič will raise the question to the Minister of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u173	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The Anti-Corruption Commission launched its work last fall and has received over 100 allegations of corruption so far. This shows that the so-called Kosovo Commission, in this short period of time, has gained the confidence of citizens and citizens since they often and seriously turn to it. This, unfortunately, is not the case with the police, since in the last evaluation of the international group of anti-corruption experts, it has not earned exactly brilliant estimates. Well, about the quality of prosecutions, good words has not yet been found by the chairman of the commission. Citizens who turn to the Kosovo Commission also like to say that they prefer to refer to it rather than to the police for the purpose of addressing their initiatives. Well, as you know, Mr Minister, all state authorities are obliged to declare a crime for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility, if they are informed or otherwise known. However, if the police are given grounds for suspecting that an offence for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official duty has been committed, it is incumbent upon the police to do whatever is necessary, which may be useful for the successful execution of the criminal procedure. Well, I am surprised that, at least so in the media, the police themselves said that they refused to accept applications and information sent by this state authority, which is even competent and which is its primary duty to prosecute or prevent and coordinate the fight against corruption. In my opinion, this committee's applications must carry even a little more weight than other applications, and therefore I find it really strange that the police have made such a decision. He's authorized, i.e. he doesn't have a commission. Now for the question. I ask the Minister: Are the statements made by the President of the Commission correct? Why did the police decide not to accept the allegations of corruption sent by this commission? And: How will you or the police, in accordance with your powers, give the necessary guidance in order to act differently in the future or in the way that citizens would expect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the question, Member. First of all, I would like to say that the statements made by the President of the Commission that the police do not accept the applications are inaccurate and misleading, which have appeared in public. The fact is that the police sent a reply to the Commission on three matters this year, which the Commission addressed to the police and informed them that it had withdrawn them for further consideration by the District Attorney's Office. In doing so, she also wrote that she advised the Commission that, in accordance with Articles 45 and 47 of the Criminal Procedure Act, when there were grounds for suspicion of a criminal offence, she could forward this notice directly to the competent District Attorney's Office, which could then only start directing the police and working on a particular case. With this, the police somehow put the commission on a shorter path so things could get better. On the basis of the conclusion drawn out of this letter, of course, we cannot claim that the police reject the applications or documents sent by the Commission to the police and it is not clear that any of the applications made by the Commission to the police would be rejected or not considered. Thus, the police at that time did not reject any document that had been received from the Commission. In the second part of the question, however, I would like to answer that the police are so far and will also act in the future in accordance with their legal competences and deal with, irrespective of excellence or communication, all the announcements they will receive, especially those which, of course, speak of criminally prosecuted crimes, particularly in relation to corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u177	Mr Minister, if I understand correctly, your continuing to work is also in line with what the National Assembly has adopted, namely the resolution on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, and it is your will and desire that the police carry out what is involved in the fight against corruption. I think I got the answer right, but I'd like to hear it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you. Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u179	Thank you very much for the additional question. Absolutely, it is my intention to support the fact that the police will act in accordance with the law and that, in accordance with all the documents adopted in the National Assembly and in accordance with the legislation, they will examine all allegations of criminal offences as well as suspicions of corruption. This is not least their duty, and the police cannot and must not avoid it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr Aurelio Juri, Minister of Public Administration, will raise the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A weak month ago, Mr Minister, I asked you in writing how that the candidate for Chief of the Management Unit in Cyprus, who was, as the only one who met all the tendering conditions, had chosen the official council, not intended to be appointed, but rather decided to repeat the invitation to tender. You have answered me that this is your right and that you want to choose between a wide range of names and that you will therefore also reshape in a new competition the conditions of knowledge of the language of the national community, as you say or because we are talking about Cyprus, Italian. At the time of the first invitation to tender, an active knowledge of that language was requested by means of evidence or a State examination centre or other appropriate institution, which was also attached by the selected candidate from the official board. You will now demand, as you write in a written reply, only a higher level of knowledge of this language, which the candidate or candidate can prove with other evidence. Questions: What other evidence can these be if the national examination centre certificate and the other relevant institutions are too stringent? Do you realize that, in a written question, I have warned you that you are changing your practice? For many years, this has required that in the designated positions of the state and local administrations or self-governments, which have work and tasks including contacts with the parties, there are people with active knowledge of both languages of the environment, i.e. Slovenian and Italian, who are both official and equal after the constitution. The same applies, of course, to Hungarian in Prekmurje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u182	Mr. Minister Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u183	Thank you very much. In fact, an invitation to tender was issued as Head of the Koper Management Unit because we agreed to withdraw from this position with the current or former Chief of Staff after the exercise of the capacity-building procedure or incompetence. The first call published required active knowledge of the Italian language and, as evidence, required a certificate from the State Examination Centre or the Faculty of Philosophy. Despite the large number of candidates applied for, the procedure has shown that only one candidate meets this formal condition. Thus, others have not even reached the second stage of the procedure, that is to say, the examination of competences, that is to say, the interview or the interview. In this way, the selection of candidates was very narrow, and I have therefore reconsidered the conditions laid down. It is true, but at that stage I thought about changing the tendering condition and asking the Chief of Administration to change the systemisation and require the Chief of Administration to provide the basic level of knowledge of the Italian language. At the same time, I was warned that the expression of the active and passive knowledge of the foreign language was completely inadequate and obsolete. I was familiar with the letter sent by the State Examination Centre, the Ministry of Labour, from 2004, which means that, if not the other, it is necessary to terminologyly harmonise these terms, it is no longer active and passive, but it is a higher and basic level. It is true that I have been thinking about reducing the requirement to the basic level, but then I have consulted with the Member of the Italian National Community, Mr Battelli, who suggested that I reconsider the matter and I have reconsidered the matter. In the systemisation of the Koper administrative unit, we have changed the required conditions for the Chief by requiring a higher level of Italian language. This is, of course, the highest that can be requested. That's how I think the fear of lowering the level can't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u184	Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u185	So, if I understand correctly, we no longer use the term active knowledge, but higher knowledge. And that's the maximum possible knowledge of course certified by some of our institutions okay. If that's the case, I'll be satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Rugelj will put the question to the Minister of Health. The Minister excused his absence for accepting the Minister of Health of the Czech Republic. You're still going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u187	Mr President, I would like to ask you to put it next time and to move me up on this list accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u188	Thank you. The question of Mr Mitja Slavinec, Minister of Defence, has a question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected choir! Dear Mr. Secretary! Much has already been said and also written about your alleged illegal border crossing. And last but not least, a statement was made today by the competent authorities, but it seems to me that the meaningful question that I raised or announced last week is still to be raised. Finally, in this way we will also allow you to answer and re-present the event itself, as well as some of your statements. Last but not least, you have already said that you have crossed the border nine times in a similar way, and according to you, the police have always done the same thing, and therefore, as we say, I would ask quite a few specific questions. I would like to know: In each individual case, how did the police act, or how did they carry out border controls, or did they give up that control? Are you still in favour of a statement that the police have allowed you to cross the border at the military part of the airport and that you do not have to carry out border controls? If so, who gave this assurance to the police? Are you still in favour of the statement that your wife was not part of the escort, but part of the delegation, and that, like you then crossed the border at the military part of the airport, she did not have to carry out border control as the rest of the escort did? Have the authorities against you and your wife, due to an alleged illegal border crossing, already instituted appropriate procedures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Erjavec, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank the Member for the question raised. Let me say that I have answered many times about the questions raised, not yet in the National Assembly, so I am pleased that you have asked this question. Let me say that when crossing the border or, more specifically, with regard to the enforcement of border control, I did not violate any regulation. This has also been published in the media today, on the basis of the results of the emergency surveillance carried out by the General Police Administration. It is true that I have already travelled on a nine-time business trip and that the border inspection was carried out in the same way. That means the police officer didn't ask me for a passport, but I was allowed to leave the airport uninterruptedly. Such a way of carrying out border crossings is also common practice in my experience, since I have not yet experienced my travel documents or other activities at border crossings. As an example, I mentioned at the last press conference that even on returning to Slovenia from Croatia, a border inspection was not carried out, but a border police officer just looked at me and allowed me to enter Slovenia. Such police practice is also justified by the rules on the implementation of the State Border Control Act, issued by the former Minister of Interior in April 2004, which, in Article 14, allows a police officer carrying out border controls to carry out checks on persons who are personally known by a police officer only occasionally. As I said, in nine cases such control has not yet been carried out. With regard to the exemption from the military section of the airport, I should say that such an authorisation has been granted on the basis of communication and negotiation between the Ministry of Defence Protocol, the air carrier dispatcher, the Security and Safety Office and the airport police station. On the basis of this agreement, this procedure has been carried out and is also in accordance with the rules on the protection of certain persons. With regard to my wife's status on that business trip, I should point out that she has been invited, which is common practice both in NATO and in the European Union, and that she has received a special invitation from the Secretary-General. As a result, she accompanied me in these activities of her husband, who was, of course, not a member of the official delegation, but was a member of the delegation, in fact, accompanied by my officers or two guards, as well as the attachés and some representatives of the ministry. This means that the government has not accepted my wife's views, because it was only part of the delegation, not part of the official delegation that took place at those events that the government has also confirmed. This was a formal conference of defence ministers for my performance at the global conference in Chantilly. Finally, I do not have the data to be dealt with in front of a criminal body at once, nor do I expect this in the light of the results of the extraordinary supervision of the general police administration. Let me repeat: I stand behind the statements I made.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u193	Thank you very much for your answer. I have a statement concerning internal control, which has not found a violation of the border crossing of Erjavac, which is a document which I have referred to before. In the original, it is certainly worth mentioning that they found that the departure of passengers was unusual. However, you referred here to Rule 14 of the Regulation, which states, inter alia, that in the implementation of the State border control law itself, if it is decided to waive border control, a person should be known personally, that no measures should be imposed on him, not in the Schengen system, nor in the national information network system, and that he has a valid document for crossing the national borders. Of course, we do not doubt that the police know you personally, but I am not sure that this is the case for everyone in your company or delegation, but not for the official delegation, as you stated. I also doubt that a police officer knows by what time is the valid personal document of all these people here, which I mentioned earlier. That is why I would like you to explain this matter further. Nor does it seem appropriate for me to compare the crossing of the border crossing and the passage after landing at the military airport when you said the police met you and did not require a document. Here the situation was completely different, because you landed somewhere where there was no border control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u195	Thank you for these additional questions. Let me say that permission was granted by the police to exit the military section of the airport. It is true that in extreme control, they find that it is an unusual way, but that is how the services have come to an agreement. But let me tell you, there was a police officer there, and there were two security officers with me all the time. With regard to the wife and the guards, let me say that the husband is treated equally, that is on the basis of the rules on the protection of persons, if I recall correctly. Because it would be insane for a minister to follow one procedure, his wife, but, I don't know, according to the regular procedure, if I put it that way. With regard to security officers, it is clear that the border inspection is carried out by a police officer on the basis of Article 14. I expect the cops to know each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic will raise the question of the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The rent for dwellings is becoming a huge burden for family budgets, especially those with one or the other difficulties, how to spend the whole month and settle all their obligations. In accordance with the legislation in force, we can see that in the past there have been quite a few changes in the area of subsidisation. Something in the interests of the beneficiaries and some of them, of course, have sharpened the criteria for granting a subsidy or subsidised rent. Before the rent could be reduced to only 50%, now it can be reduced to 80%. And where things got tougher, before the subsidy was calculated on the entire area of the apartment, now only to the appropriate area of the apartment. The property of the family is limited and the family must not own a vehicle of SIT 2.1 million. The source of the payment of this rent subsidy is governed by the Social Protection Act and in accordance with the Slovenian legislation in force, the subsidy is the obligation to the budget of local communities. Dear Minister Janez Podobnik, I ask you: Can the municipalities count on the reimbursement of the State budget's rent subsidies, since in particular the larger municipalities bear large costs in this area? They grant rent subsidies to other owners of apartments and rent subsidies for municipal dwellings. And second question: Does the ministry or better say that the government may fully consider that the procedures for rent subsidies would be fully transferred to social work centres and the source for them to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs? So from municipal budgets to the state budget. Thank you very much for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u199	Thank you for the question, Mr. Kontic. The issue of rent subsidies is a sensitive issue. The Commission of the National Court of Petitions also made a very detailed presentation to him last week. First of all, your first question. Can the municipalities count on the refund of the State’s rent subsidy? As you yourself have pointed out, under the applicable housing law and regulation, which has a long title: The Regulation on the methodology for the design of rents in non-profit apartments and the criteria and procedure for the application of subsidised rents is binding on the municipality to decide on the eligibility and the amount of the subsidy, as well as on the resources you have found for the payment of subsidies, the source is the municipal budgets. As long as there are no changes to the legislation in force, the municipality cannot count on any reimbursements. According to the data we have, around 5400 tenants will be excused for subsidised rent this year. At the annual level, municipalities will provide around 900 000 million tolls of subsidies. This is less than the previous years, due to some of the changes you have already mentioned. And now your conclusion that the entry price is to obtain subsidies to the rent per se. It is concluded that this number of beneficiaries has therefore fallen. On the basis of your questions and the constant monitoring of what is going on in the municipalities, we have prepared the first draft for a change in the system or correction of the current system. We've found that it can only be done through a change in the housing law, otherwise it can't be done. It's the only right way. Our thinking goes in this direction so that the current income price, which is a ticket for the acquisition of subsidies, will increase slightly. This would mean that tenants whose remuneration does not exceed the minimum income increased by 40%, their found income, would still be able to obtain a subsidised rent. And according to our assessment, around 8,000 tenants would be excused by such a solution. Now there's 5400. The annual obligation for congregations would amount to about 1.8 billion tolars. Now it's 900 million tolars. At the end of 2006, this would mean 2.3 billion tolars per year for the municipalities because of the gradual increase in rents, which is saved by the current housing law, at a rate of 4.68%. And now the answer to your second question is whether we are considering transferring the procedures for rent subsidies to social work centres and the source to work, family and social affairs. We've seen it twice. One would be this, and we have already formally proposed to our colleagues in finance that funds for non-profit rent subsidies should be provided in a 50-50 ratio, that is 50 municipalities, 50 state budgets. You can trust me that this will be a tough negotiation if we succeed. If this solution were to succeed, we could then incorporate it into the proposed amendments to the housing law that we will put into the procedure this year, as I said earlier. It is true, however, that Minister Drobník and I have already spoken to each other in writing, and we are proposing and thinking, therefore, that the source should no longer be the municipal budgets, but rather the entire resource for work, family and social affairs. I think that one of the fellow Members of Parliament at the previous meeting of the National Assembly has already made a similar proposal to the fellow Master Petty Officer. This is said to be true of the first question of the congregation’s recovery of funds or of minor burdens if we change the law. We are also considering moving the procedures to the centres and moving the source from the municipalities to the work, family and social affairs area. The second option is co-financing of 50 municipal budgets and 50 state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. The minister's gone. Do you want to ask a question anyway? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary, ministers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In order to implement projects under the Equal Community initiative, which was part of the EU strategy for the creation of more and better jobs and to ensure that no one is denied access to them, the European social malt received 1.5 billion tolars in the period 2004 to 2006. The Programme of the Equal Community Initiative adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and endorsed by the European Commission, the Ministry implements with the assistance of October 2004 the selected 26 development partnerships selected in the public tender for financing development partnerships, the Equal Community initiative in the Republic of Slovenia, which would be published in the Official Journal on 16 July 2004. The Equal Management Authority, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons in June 2005, did not endorse the six programme operators' timely development partnership agreements, including a transnational partnership agreement. However, the Labour Market and Employment Directorate has broken contracts with them because the projects already selected should not meet the criteria. There is doubt as to the partiality of deciding on the elimination of the six mentioned partnerships and their projects, the level of funds of a good 400 million tolar, since, among other irregularities exposed, it is also a violation of the Equal Community initiative programme, which sets out in Chapter 5 of the Equal initiative only one selection procedure, which has already been carried out in the tendering procedure. In the context of these events, we have already received Members from the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs, a disabled letter from the legal representative, Stanka Firm Govez, representing six beneficiaries of these programmes, and we have also received a message that the project will be tested through the criteria in Brussels, because six of those that have now emerged from this project have already provided this initiative. I therefore raise the following question to the Minister: Will you oversee the decision of the acting director of the Directorate for the Labour Market and Employment of Mr Eric Kos, who is not in line with the Equal Programme? Thank you very much. I would like to ask, Mr President, if I can get an oral reply from the Minister at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Happy Friend has a question for the Minister of Finance. Despite the Minister's absence, do you want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u203	Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u204	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u205	Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues, ministers, ministers! A small concessional activity for the adaptation of gambling is a strong guarantee for the sustainable development of municipalities, and therefore today's issue is also addressed to the Minister of Finance. It is unreasonable for the municipalities of Sežana, Kozina, Divaca and Komn, which I represent in essence, to have a concession withdrawn or not to be extended. We expect more reasonableness from the RS government when it comes to such an important issue and ask why the closure of one of the casinos took place in Sežana, which has resulted in 50 new unemployed people in the region, which is already already in fact neglected through the closure or opening of the border and the loss of jobs under this title. I would also like to point out that it is unreasonable to look at how far these concessions can be granted so that all these concessions are not granted. It seems that the government is replacing all these supervisory councils, administrative authorities in these casinos, to ensure majority management and, if this is not done, is adhering to the right not to grant concessions. In Sežana, we have a three-quarter building of Luna, which is a mixed ownership relationship, with owners of the bank, economic operators and private and social enterprises, and yet for the second year there is some activity here to obtain a small concession for gaming activity, and in fact the applicants are not successful. Employment in the gambling industry also offers employment to a wider region, as with the introduction of quality guest-tourism work we can expect a wider region to be employed. Just because we are looking at the possibility of granted concessions and the non-use of concessions, in fact, the unreasonableness of this behaviour by the RS government is indeed unreasonable. The loss of jobs in the region, which is already handicapped in terms of the coastal part of Slovenia, is great, so I ask the Minister: When will it allow applicants, especially the Moon, and those gambling structures that already have legal status, to operate normally and thus enable more than 200 new jobs to be employed directly and indirectly 100? Thank you very much. I expect an answer at the next government meeting, together with the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer will also raise the question of a Member of Parliament to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to receive your oral response at the next meeting. Given that today the question has already been raised to the Prime Minister and he did not know whether or not he wanted to answer some questions, the Minister of Finance may be more consistent and will answer my questions. In recent days, it has been possible in the media to track a number of different opinions and views on the alleged illegal constitutional session of the Banka Vipe Supervisory Board. Some information suggests that some supervisors who were not present at the meeting themselves should also be asked about this. Of the seven members of the Governing Council, only four were present at the founding session. Even more questionable is the epilogue of this first refractory session of the Abanka Supervisory Board, led by the U.S. the chairman of the capital company's administration, when the bank ran out of leadership overnight. Mr Špiletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, also asked about such conduct and unknown motives for the conduct of Mr Toplak and Kod. In addition, it is obvious that the capital company also operates and operates more domestically and rather deals with other matters than those for which it is established. This is why it is important to note, as we read days ago, that when Kad forgot to apply to the Luka Koper Assembly, the more alarming fact is that the value of capital company investments has been reduced by 18 billion in the last three, four months. That the statement of the first man Kad, Mr Toplak, before the meeting of the Abanka Supervisory Council I do not even speak of [[Quote]] : "We resolve the leadership of the Bank because the decision to sell 44% of the share of the Bank to the National Financial Society has not been politically verified." [[End of quote.]] Therefore, Minister of Finance, Mr Bayuk, I ask: Do the State’s supervisors have instructions that without even looking into the company’s documentation and without an adequate and expert opinion they leave the company’s leadership, as has happened to the Bank? Secondly: On which authorities of the executive branch do they say, in the government or ministries, that financial and business events are politically verified in individual companies where the State is also present through Kad and Sod? And thirdly: Why do the representatives of Kad do not fulfil the stated commitment in the coalition contract that says [[Quote]] "When he publicly reveals how he will vote in the shareholders' assemblies." [[End of quote.]] This has not been the case until now. Let us remember only Krka and Petrol, where the assembly was carried out in an appropriate manner by representatives of Kad and Sod. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u208	Thank you very much. We have thus exhausted questions from Members and Members. We are moving on to other questions of Members and Members. Mrs Lovtišar Bebler has the floor, which will ask the Minister of Transport the question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I would like to ask Minister Janez Bozic the following question. The Upper Sava Valley is one of the most beautiful Alpine valleys, with its centre in Kranjska Gora, is not an extremely tourist area. In such an area, of course, activities that have a negative impact on tourism are not desirable. One such activity is certainly road freight. I am therefore interested in: What were the reasons for the decision on the basis of which, in recent years, the traffic of trucks and groups of vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds seven and a half tonnes could take place on the road section Hrušica-Mystrana-Podkoren and on the road section Podkoren-Rateče? Was such a decision also influenced by pressure from the automobile lobby, which could thus have avoided paying for the tunnels in the caravan? Since a full-loaded tractor has such an impact on the road as at least 40,000 passenger vehicles, experts say, I wonder: What damage did heavy trucks cause on the road section of Hrušica-Rateča during this period? In view of the fact that, at the time of the adoption of the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005, my amendment for additional funds would have been rejected for this section, I ask you: How will the rehabilitation of the road section of Hrušica-Rateča, which is in very, very poor condition from the point of view of the tourist area? Is it accurate that in the future transit road freight will be banned at the Khrushica-Rateča section again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Mag. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u211	Thank you so much for asking. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. The state roads on the route Hrušica-Mojstrana-Podkoren and Podkoren-Rateče are now categorised as the regional roads of the first order, before which they were categorised as highways. As such, they were also designed and built. This means that the road structure was dimensional for the transport of heavy goods vehicles and technical elements of the road were adapted to this. In view of the above, there are no conditions for the prohibition of freight traffic on the route Hrušica-Podkoren - border crossing of Rateca. Due to the technical elements of the road to the Korena saddle, the road on the Italian side of the border crossing Rateca and the road to Vršič, transit traffic on the route Jesenice - the border crossing of Rateca is not possible. On the route Podkoren-Korean saddle, this is R1 201 regional road, is prohibited traffic for motor vehicles towing a trailer. On the route Podkoren-Rateča - the border crossing of Rateca, regional road R1 202, traffic for motor vehicles towing the trailer, other than a light or residential trailer, is allowed to the border crossing of Rateca, which is also marked with a supplementary sign. In view of the above, only local and freight traffic is allowed. On 30.6.2005, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia issued an order for roads to supplement traffic signalling, which marked the prohibition already on exports from the mountain highway on Hrušica. During the crossing of the Vršič it is prohibited to drive goods vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 7,5 tonnes. With regard to the question of damage caused by cargo vehicles, let me answer the following. The fact that trucks on the road cause much more damage than passenger cars, as you yourself have already mentioned in the question, is true. However, this injury cannot be assessed at the specific section. There are only comparative studies which cannot be applied to a specific section, as the damage to the vehicle is influenced by several factors, such as the vehicle, the condition of the freight and passenger vehicles, the initial condition of the vehicle and the sharpness of winter. As far as the planned measures on the road are concerned, this is the case. In 2005 the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia intended to arrange the crossing for pedestrians in Dovjem on these state roads. The project envisages the relocation of bus stations and the arrangements for the connections of both local roads for Dovje and Mojstrna. With regard to the renewal of the entire road section of Hrušica-Rateča, I can say that, as I have mentioned earlier today, it is in the preparation of a comprehensive national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads, which will also cover all necessary projects or cover all necessary projects for the modernisation of state roads. That programme will be forwarded, as I have already mentioned many times today, to the adoption of the National Assembly in the last months of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u212	Thank you very much. You want a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u213	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive response. I'm happy with him. But I cannot be satisfied with the fact that a programme is just being prepared, while the road that runs through the Upper Plain is in a very, very bad state. This is also unacceptable in view of the tourism I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pečan will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u215	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the provisions of Article 99 of the Agricultural Act, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development as an organisation in the Ministry is established for the implementation of agricultural policy measures, which means, inter alia, that it must work in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act. In recent years, however, we have witnessed hundreds of complaints from agricultural operators about the decisions issued by the Agency, if I only mention some. In Slovenia, for example, olivers complain mainly about the lack of consistency of records between the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Agency and about the time of data capture. In Stepan they complain about the error or error of the inspector in Dolenjska due to the error of the agricultural inspector, and also complain about the decisions issued due to miscalculated quotas. All complaints about the decisions issued were timely, in the rule of law it would be reasonable and expected that the appellate body would respond to the complaint in accordance with the law on the administrative procedure of the prescribed time limit, and also with the Agency, even if they did not work very domestically within your ministry. I am convinced that it is clear what the decision issued in the administrative procedure means and what its legal consequences are for both the party and the authority which issued it. At your agency, however, complaints received in due time, which are further mutilated by an appropriate administrative fee and in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, are recommended to be sent. At least that's what the data and the angry farmers in the field say. Answers to be received after 30 days under the Administrative Procedure Act are neither after two or after eight or more months. According to the information I have available, some complainants have been waiting for answers since 2003, so that I do not even talk about those in 2004. As I've been told, although the agency has very friendly informers who are trying to calm down angry and disappointed farm owners about this: "Good day, just a moment, please, yes, you know, your complaint has not yet been resolved, you know, we have a lot of complaints, probably at the end of the second month, please call..." And in this style from month to month. Thus, after several months of unsuccessful intervention, information is received that the complaint is dismissed to a second-degree body, to the legal service of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and time is measured from the beginning. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister: When and how will the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food ensure that the functioning of the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development is in accordance with the applicable legislation, in particular the Law on Administrative Procedure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for this question, which is very large, is also justified in much of the work. I'll go in the right order. First of all, the operation of the Agency in relation to the Ministry and to the legislation in force, you probably had in mind the law on administrative procedure and compliance with the provisions of this law. The relationship between the Ministry and the body in the composition is governed by the State Administration Act. The Ministry shall monitor and supervise the work of the Agency through annual programmes and through annual reports. The Agency shall be responsible for its responsibilities, rights and responsibilities to the Ministry. The Agency must report regularly on the implementation of the agricultural policy measures to the Ministry. The cooperation of the Director of the Agency shall be kept in the Colleges of the Minister of Agriculture. The operation of the Agency shall be controlled by European inspectors. We had five European inspectors this year on 24 and 25 June, almost a few days to determine the legality of the Agency's work. I must say that the report is positive in everything and that no major illegalities have been identified. However, as regards the individual issues raised by you, in particular the issue of records, I believe that you considered the records of discrepancies between the Ministry and the Agency, the records relating to the serial number and the surface. Are these records or any other records? I didn't understand. It's a misalignment of records between the Ministry and the Agency. The fact is that beneficiaries use data from official records, this is a land cadaster. I know that in the case of your area, the cadastral municipality of Izola 2 and Cetora, there have been changes in the partial numbers and surfaces. However, since individual landowners or land users have not notified them in due time to these official records, there has been a lack of consistency in these records. However, the fact is that landowners are responsible for the update of these records, not the agency or the ministry. The law lays down a time limit, a limit, when, on the day on which the applications are lodged and on that day, the data from the official records shall be used. However, as regards the work of the inspectors and their possible mistakes, the following should be noted. The annual pre-payment inspectors carry out a mandatory review of up to 5% in agriculture and monitor about 10% of applications for animal premiums on the spot. They shall be carried out in cooperation with the beneficiary and the findings shall be recorded in the minutes. The minutes shall be signed by both the inspector and the beneficiary. If the beneficiary does not agree with the minutes, he may comment on the minutes. Until the beneficiary agrees with the minutes, it shall not sign either. However, it is also allowed to demonstrate the irregularity of the minutes. That's basically the procedure. However, this does not justify the situation in Dolenjska. You are probably referring to this directive, in which, in 433 cases, the inspector misinterpreted the regulation. Mistakes have occurred and, therefore, wrong decisions have been made. I have inherited this matter, and I can only say that we have resolved 460 of these decisions, that this is a priority in resolution and that these mistakes made by the Authority can be resolved by the Agency on an official basis. And he's doing it. These complaints will be resolved by the end of August. If you were referring to a nitrate directive. As regards the issue of decisions due to miscalculated quotas. In the case of milk quotas, these are allocated on the basis of the buyers' reports. If the buyer communicated the wrong value, the beneficiary had the right to appeal. The Agency received 150 such complaints, 3 and 4 cases were justified, and remained unjustified. For cows breast-feeding system failures [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] With regard to the settlement of complaints within the prescribed time limit. I deeply agree that, in accordance with the ZUP, complaints had to be resolved within 2 months, as provided for by the law. However, the fact is that the Agency issues over 200,000 decisions per year, and about less than 2% are complaints. That's what they say. It's about 4,000 complaints. I can only say that we have additional staff, at the agency and at the Ministry of Agriculture, with the aim of bringing this scope of complaints into the current state of play. As far as we can make it, it'll show time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u219	That's all I'd ask here. The fact is, everything can be objective, the fact is you're understaffed and so on. However, any beneficiary, each complainant, if it is found that his complaint has been justified to obtain a positive settlement in the end, is also entitled to sue for the delay in payment delays which were otherwise due to him, because this is not the case for a month or two. Have you considered that if these farmers were to be organised as they should be, if they were to be sufficiently aware of their rights to be able to happen, that the Agency or the Ministry would have to be a state, they could pay huge sums of damages by way of judicial late payments? Where will you get that money, if I may ask?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u220	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u221	Legally, that's possible. Of course, the beneficiaries have this right. They have more rights. Firstly, if the complaint is not resolved within two months, they shall have the right to appeal to the authority's silence. In this case, the second-degree authority must certainly resolve within a legal time limit. We didn't even think about it, or we didn't get deep enough. If a mass event were to occur in order to sue the beneficiaries, they would probably also challenge the legal late interest on time or the unpaid funds to which they were entitled. At this point, I can only ensure that with these new staff, we try to ensure that complaints are resolved within the legally prescribed time limits.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Milenko Ziherl, a question for the Minister of Economy and Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u223	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Once again a nice greeting to the Minister and the Minister and to the most persistent colleagues and colleagues. The question was originally addressed to the Minister for Finance, but after consultation with the experts, I referred this issue to the two ministers mentioned. With effect from 1 May 2004, Slovenia became a full member of the EU and thus gained access to the Structural and Cohesion Fund. Much of this funding is still untapped. Local communities, these are municipalities, they count on them, they run for tenders, but they are often unsuccessful, because they do not master the procedure, they have unfinished projects and are unsuccessful for several other reasons. These funds are essential for the reconstruction of the Slovenian industry, where new technological processes, new products, new knowledge, infrastructure construction, utilities, environmental protection and other objectives would be developed. We have set ourselves or would like to imitate Finland and Ireland. Both countries have made a major development leap with the help of European funds and the good projects they have put into all these goals and tasks. Ireland reached 65% of the average E15 GDP at the time of accession, says the old European countries, and has already jumped to 105% or first, and is still showing signs of growth. So I'm asking the following set of questions: What are the options or programmes of access to the remaining funds available to Slovenia? How to increase absorption capacity to draw funds? How to simplify tendering procedures? For what areas are the funds still available? Will interested parties receive additional instruction on the tendering process, or will invitations to tender where funds are still available be supplemented or renewed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u224	Thank you. I must say, there is no Minister for the Economy. Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for asking. This question, which relates to the drawing up of European cohesion policy funds in view of how we have these funds scattered across individual ministries, concerns in fact several ministries, but of course I will try to answer in the part that concerns our service as a management body. If we touch on the funds that are in the area of structural funds, then it must be said that we are talking about four funds here. First of all, a fund linked to regional funds. This Regional Development Fund is located at the Ministry of Economy. In this context, I must say, at least that part of the work that concerns largely the municipalities is now practically exhausted. It is true, however, that they are not exhausted by all measures and instruments. If we look at measures in the area of the innovation environment, the development of tourist destinations, guarantee funds, the voucher programme, there are still some resources available. And, of course, tendering procedures are already under way, as envisaged. As regards other instruments, say measures 1.4, such as business zones, calls for centres of excellence. I must say that at the moment, according to known data, these funds have already been located in some way, the contracts are said to have been signed. However, given that we will review the use of funds under this fund, we will then propose possible shifts of these funds to areas where they could be used more quickly, such as production and turnover zones. In the second part, at the so-called structural fund for social policy, I must say that, in fact, all four measures, such as the development of active employment policies, social inclusion, lifelong learning, the promotion of entrepreneurship and adaptability, are still available. The tendering procedures shall be ongoing. There are, of course, eligible individuals and businesses. Then there are some of these funds in the two funds in the agricultural policy area, in the agricultural fund, for the fisheries sector, where individual procedures are also under way, but also there is no provision for municipalities to be able to use funds, but they are individuals or institutions, organisations that can run for these funds. With regard to the use of Structural Funds funds, the government has taken a number of measures to accelerate the process itself, from the preparation of programmes, to the simplification of procedures, including changes in criteria on some of the measures now being renegotiated. We have changed the criteria for simplifying and making wider access possible. Above all, it is important to redirect resources to those regions that are most eligible for them. I mean a region that has been declared less developed. The other area is the cohesion fund. There are essentially funds allocated between two ministries. One part of the Ministry of Transport where these major projects are, the other part is this part, which is connected to the municipalities. This is in the area of wastewater treatment and municipal infrastructure. Procedures run slightly differently. It is necessary to correct or supplement the reference framework properly, since the funds have already been allocated by project under the reference framework and we have already received all the relevant projects for this year. Thus, these funds have now been lost in this respect. As regards this area, it is also necessary to contact the relevant Ministry of Environment and Space. As far as information is concerned in general and also information. It is possible to take advantage of all the possibilities that already exist at this time, according to individual ministries, including through so-called information centres, which are across individual municipalities. We are also planning a certain part of the promotion activity in this area, because we really want to accelerate this absorption of all these funds. We believe and appreciate that this picture, which was very negative at the beginning of the year, will have changed significantly already this year, and we plan even better in the following year and, in fact, to the end, to draw funds for this financial perspective.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u226	Thank you very much. You want a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u227	No, no, no. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive response. However, I think that the Minister of Economy will reply in writing, which he wishes to complement from his field. Once again, thank the Minister very much for all these explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mrs Pozsonec, you have a question for the Minister of Economy, which is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since it is not the Minister for the Economy, I will save my question for September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u230	Mr Ljubo Germič has a question for the Minister for Education and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! It is clear that your most resilient and at the same time most controversial moves in recent weeks are the political setting up of the new members of the General Education and Disagreement Council, where it is increasingly evident that without publicly known criteria you deny consent to politically incompatible directors who otherwise meet the prescribed conditions of law have more than half the support of the collective. Despite the pre-election promises of depoliticisation and withdrawal of the country from various areas, we are receiving increasing politicisation in the economy, the judiciary, the media and, unfortunately, in education as well. This was pointed out by representatives of the Education and Education Union, the Association of Directors and the media. However, you continue your practice. We now have an example of Majda Vrhovnik primary school after Beltinci primary school and Muta primary school. Cases of concern. This is because, Mr Minister, you do not like to give reasons for your decisions in public, and instead of clear arguments, you prefer to resort to discreditation and non-truths. In your decisions, you are quick, but unfortunately, sometimes reckless. In your performances you act arrogantly and self-sufficiently. As a Member of Parliament and former teacher and director, several citizens and citizens who are in one way or another connected with education have turned to me. They're worried about the situation in school, and they're amazed at your decisions. They justifiably require clarifications and clear views. Therefore, I ask you, Mr Minister, why didn't you give Mr Oton Račečič your consent to the appointment as director, despite the fact that the candidate met all the legal conditions laid down, that he had 88% of the support of the educational collective and support of the local community? Is this a case of punishing a director who has not complied with your wishes and who is behind his professional decisions that are not in line with your political interests? I believe that as Minister you are committed to clarify your decisions, so I ask you to do so at last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u233	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for the question, Mr Germich. It was a little longer than I got it written. Which I find hard to believe has grown on your herbs, especially because of some of the claims you mention in the first part of the question. Sometimes it's funny when two or three cases give me political training after 12 years of, say, non-political recruitment. When I hear these allegations, I get the feeling that the cows are laughing a little bit. I will try to answer or there is less time to give you an official response to your claims. The procedure for appointing the Director shall be laid down by the law of the ZOFI, the Director shall be appointed by the Council of the School and the Minister's consent shall be obtained for appointment. This procedure cannot be considered as some decision-making in administrative matters, but is an act in the issue of consent or positive or negative axorent and not a separate legal act and therefore does not contain justification and legal instruction. I'm not saying it's that good, but it's in a normative sense. If these standards change, if they go in the right direction, I'll be the first to change these standards. But so far, I have complied with the law, with the law, and also respected the positive normative order. Therefore, the Minister has a discretionary right and since the administrative procedure does not provide for an explanation, I also find it difficult to explain, because there is always a limit to personal integrity. Where is the right limit where my judgmental claims or the interpretation of positive or negative consent do not affect the integrity of the individual or of the one which is affected by my decisions? It's paradoxical that I took these few findings from the Ministry's response a few years ago. But since the legislation has not changed to this day, the method and procedure for appointing administrators are the same. Such a method and procedure was also supported by the appointed one until recently, when he explained as president of the company of directors after Slovenia those directors who had not previously obtained consent from the minister. I would not have spoken more about other reasons, which were also relevant to my decisions, for these reasons. So far, I've made up my mind a few ten times, and I've given my consent, my disagreement. Mostly consent. There were no problems and problems in the vast majority. I made up my mind about the disagreements, no matter what the recruitment and appointment of the previous term was a few times less than my predecessor, and you weren't worried about that at the time. But more or less, it's a rather evasive procedure. I think that the reaction of the candidate in question after a statement of disagreement is such that it confirms that I have done exactly what is right in this case. I do not hope to assume responsibility for this candidate, because of some of his personal characteristics, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] as a suspicious ability to run such an important institution as the school.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I have previously listened to the answer to the question asked by Mrs Potrate. The answer to my question is roughly the same, because you haven't answered my question. The question was presented in the exact same way today as it was written and announced. However, the explanation before the question was a little longer, as I think it is also necessary. I would like to comment on whether Members are able to draw up a question with their own minds. This Mr. Minister as a teacher, as a researcher at the university, as a director, as a specialist abroad, I think I could still spell out a feature that is related to my person, so that I can only hope to say that I can draw up such a question and such an explanation in view of the current situation that is going on. It is, however, the fact that we are talking and commenting on various events. Whether the cows laugh or not, it is necessary to ask people who do not have an answer on your part and are, in fact, bounded or turned on their way, say their professional careers, such as Mr Račečič. When you talk about personal integrity, of course, Mr Minister, whether you are hurting the personal integrity of someone who was the head of the primary school principals' association, he proved his work with all his expertise, he has the support I have already listed, and do not explain that you rejected his next term. Isn't that what breaks personal integrity and creates a lot of uncertainty. What is it, Minister, that are those qualities of those candidates who will be involved in the candidate procedures in the future? However, I ask only if you can justify the reasons for rejecting candidate Račečič. It's a simple and clear question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u236	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I apologize for commenting on your question, but I didn't mean to say that you weren't able to ask such a good question, but I wanted to say that you could ask a much better question than that, with much less judgment and more valuable arguments. However, if I were to define in more detail the personal characteristics of the candidate, of course or even the general criteria, I could choose exactly what this is about. You can believe that my decision was valid, based on the kind of information I obtained, both from my parents and others, that it has a diametric opposite opinion on the ability of a candidate who was not his first job here and on the state of the school that leads him, which is not pink. I can give you some information. It probably wouldn't make sense here, but I could give you a day's notice. Certain procedures relating to the management of a company allegedly financed by budgetary resources and other procedures are also ongoing against the candidate, and this does not concern me so much unless this has indeed occurred. It's a person, I say again, for whom I personally do not hope to take responsibility for running one such institution as primary school.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mrs Majda Potrat will ask a question from the Minister for Culture, who is not. Still? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u239	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Let me begin by saying that I expect the Minister to give me an oral answer, and I will thank him for his answers. That's what the magnetogram says, except that the word "orthodox" was omitted when I asked at the previous session. The reference to Rule 249 of the Rules of Procedure, which Mr President gave me, concerns the asking of written questions, not oral questions. So I expect the Minister's oral reply. The question is as follows: At the last meeting of the City Council of Maribor we received saints and saints in the hands of a letter addressed to the Mayor of the Municipality in response to the sent investment programme for the construction of the puppet theatre in Maribor, which the Ministry is expected to review and confirm. Since the construction of the puppet theatre Maribor was included in the law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes in culture for the second time as a priority, I was surprised that the Ministry of Culture would avoid its legal obligations. At the same time, it is also an important argument justifying the decision of the Ministry of Culture, why the deadline for drawing on the investment programme envisaged by the Ministry of Culture cannot be confirmed because, as one of the four reasons given by the Ministry, [[.... ……]] : "According to the fact that the co-financing of the construction of the Maribor puppet theatre due to new facts, for example, the preparation for the Presidency of the European Union in 2008, is no longer among the priorities of the Ministry of Culture." [[End of story.]] At the time of the ministerial function, Dr Simoniti took on a greater commitment under the Cultural Tolar Act, at the same time predicting greater concern for cultural institutions in the capital. I therefore wonder whether this is also related to the call to determine the location of the cultural capital of Europe in 2012, when Slovenia will be in line with Portugal, and should already be published. It would be good if other places in Slovenia could apply for this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, unless it is already predetermined that it will be Ljubljana. However, the Austrian Gradec could be an example. I therefore ask the Minister: How will the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union in the first half of 2008 affect the legal priorities adopted in culture? Which investments and programmes will therefore have an advantage, and which will they have to wait for realisation? How will a project be carried out to determine the location of Europe's cultural capital in 2012? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Milan Petek, who has a question for the Minister of Public Administration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u241	Thank you, Chairman. Lone Minister, you're on your own. I need to ask you a question. I'm asking about the code you adopted at the government. When you explained in November 2004 why future ministers would have to sign a special ethical code, you ensured that the signature would raise the confidence of Slovenian citizens in the government and the state institutions, because future ministers with the code would morally and politically commit themselves to acting in such a way that the government, as the top of the state administration, would be an example of the state administration and the public sector as a whole. At the press conference on 22 November, you said, inter alia, that the Code for Ministeral Candidates brings some more general commitments to ensure that the government's functioning is based on some fundamental values. Thus, ministers who are smothered by daily tasks should not lose sight of the fundamental values of the framework that they are supposed to guide in their work. By signing the Code, you explained at the above-mentioned press releases that ministers should commit themselves to acting in accordance with the fundamental values of respect for human life and dignity, freedom, honesty and justice. The Ethical Code of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is intended to bring real changes for the better in your opinion. How does it appear to understand your current interpretation of the ethical code today? Is it still true that ministers are obliged to respect the code they signed in November? Is it still true that the Minister who violates the provisions of the Code must offer his resignation? That's how you guaranteed and wrote it in the code. I also ask you in relation to Mr Minister's previous reply: How do you assess this answer in the context of this Code?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u242	Mr. Minister, Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I still believe in the ethical code signed by all ministers and secretaries of state. This code lays down, in many respects, the standard of conduct, which goes beyond the requirements laid down by the current legal order, the Prime Minister, ministers and secretaries of state. This Code applies from day one to day one. This Code also contains a provision that the Minister will offer a derogation if the Prime Minister considers that a violation of this Code or for other reasons has caused significant damage to the reputation of the Government or the institution led by the Minister or the Secretary of State. Of course, the Code fully applies, but of course do not expect me to comment on the ethical behavior of my colleagues. And that's not in my jurisdiction, nor would it be right. The judge of our work is first the Prime Minister, then there are you who can ask us questions. Everyone is responsible for their actions and actions to the President of the Government and to the National Assembly, as well as to the public. These are the circles that judge us, including the ethics of our conduct. Prime Minister, Parliament, the public. That is why I think it is right that each of your actions should be explained on its own and, of course, also have the right to raise questions from or to respect the Code for each minister individually, as well as for the Prime Minister on the conduct of each of us. That's why I think it's right for everyone to explain their actions. If you ask me personally about my conduct with regard to this code, I am firmly convinced that I have respected it from the first day until today, and I can explain for every action I have done that it is in accordance with this code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u244	Thank you. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u245	Mr. Minister, of course, I expected that kind of response, and you didn't surprise me. I asked you because you're the author of this code and you've poured out your head on a piece of paper, and in this case, I think you're, I think, under quotes, a "botra" and one that could also represent your views about other ministers. You haven't answered me, I can't tell you this, I expected you to excuse yourself, you have no authority, and you can't judge other behaviors. However, I would like to remind you of some of the definitions of this code when it says, "I will convey to the public all public information of a public nature with which I will have my own or..." and so on "... I will explain to the public openly my views, questions from my field of work and the reasons for my decisions..." When we listened to Mr. Beast before, it was all different, but not this. He said, "In the framework of my discretionary rights, I decided not to explain any further..." This is exactly what we expected the Minister to define in accordance with the Code for the conduct he himself should defend. Clearly, I thought and hoped that this course of action would also serve as a basis for your answer. Since that is not the case, your conclusion at the time is that the code is a surplus of the new government. Today, I assess that the Code is a negative surplus of this government, because obviously there is no reaction to the Minister's behaviour. I would therefore ask you or suggest that you agree in the government if you do not wish to make a moral judgment to be made in the government to agree and to determine whether a formal ruling on the conduct of the Minister is also necessary at the time of moral judgment, because I think that you are committed and the author of the codex to point that out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Minister, an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u247	I'll answer that one more time. If I have an opinion on a fellow minister's conduct or compliance with the code, then of course I will say it to him in private. I can also suggest or advise the Prime Minister, but there is no way that I can express public views on the functioning of my fellow ministers. That's how I expect them not to say this about my work, but that we'll say it in private. This question of yours may be addressed to a colleague of the Beast or to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u248	Thank you very much. We have thus exhausted the agenda for the questions sent. It's interesting that we're done with the code of ethics. We also speak to the Code of Ethics of Members. I am very grateful that 10 or 11 of you have continued to endure to the end, because if you had not been to the last question, I would have stayed with the secretary and the minister alone. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and ministers for the answers given and thus conclude this item on the agenda. I am adjourning the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
