ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Just Bevk from 2 p.m. on, mag. Milan Cwickl, Geza Juban, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Aurelio Yuri from 3 p.m., Franz Kangler from 1300 hours away, Drago Koren, mag. Janez Kramberger, Dušan Kumer, Alojz Posedel, Mag. Anton Rop, mag. Borut Saiovic and Mr Villa Trofenik from 12.00 p.m. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE REGISTRATION OF THE EXTERNAL PARTNER COMMUNITY. In doing so, I would like to inform you that the total time of discussion foreseen for this point is 4 hours and 45 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At the outset, I would like to apologize to Minister Drobnik for not being able to attend today's meeting because he has an Austrian Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs at his visit. As a proposal for a law, the government was based on the fact that, in the case of the same-sex community, two adults, two men or two women were a special living community. In view of the specificity of such a relationship, it proposed to regulate the legal position of the same-sex partnership resulting from the social relationship by means of a specific law and to determine the extent of the rights and duties of the partners accordingly. The proposer wishes to regulate the position of the same-sex partner community legally and to enable same-sex couples to exercise their rights and fulfil their obligations to each other. The proposal for a law governs the relationship between two adults of the same sex and does not prejudice the relationship between the partner and the children of one or the other partner. Since the law interferes with a number of areas of social life, it has been the subject of difficult inter-departmental coordination between the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Government for Law and the Office for Equal Opportunities. Civil society representatives who made their proposals were also involved in the drafting of the bill. The proposed rights of NGOs include the right to inherit the share of common assets in the draft law. The draft law thus lays down the procedure and conditions for the registration of the same-sex partnership, the legal consequences of registration, the method of termination and the relationship between the partners after the termination of registration. The Community registration procedure shall be carried out in such a way that persons wishing to register the same partnership community will register it with the administrative unit to be selected for themselves 30 days before the intended registration. At the time of registration of the partner community, the simultaneous presence of the two partners shall be required, which shall first orally and subsequently give a written consent to the official of the administrative unit that they wish to register the Community. The official must, however, be informed before the procedure of the legal consequences of the registration. The consent of the official shall be entered in the register of same-sex partnerships and the Community shall be in force registered by signature of the declaration. The proposal for a partner's law provides a legal basis for the exercise of rights which, subject to registration, allow the functioning of a partner's community of two equally oriented partners or partners. The proposed law regulates both the right to subsistence and subsistence, the right to acquire property and to regulate the property situation within the community, the right to housing, the right to inherit the share of the common property, the right to obtain information on the health status of the affected partner and visits to health institutions. The Government foresees that, after the adoption of this law within 6 months, it will prepare amendments to the law on criminal proceedings, unfair proceedings, a fair procedure concerning the recognition of rights in these proceedings resulting from the registration of the same-sex partner community. The registered same-sex partnership ends with the death of one partner by declaring one partner dead and on the basis of a legal administrative decision to terminate the same-sex partnership. Property relations and survival and inheritance shall be governed by a fair or unfair procedure before the competent court. We estimate that the draft law covers all the rights and obligations of partners [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u3	Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u4	allow the normal functioning of the partnership community between two adults of the same sex. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you, Secretary of State, for further explanation of the bill. The bill was also considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. Please ask the chairman of the committee, Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to welcome everyone here. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal at its fifth regular meeting on 2.6.2005. Ms Marjetko Cotman, representative of the Legislative Service, representative of the DIH Society, President of the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities of the National Assembly of Mrs Majd Potat and representative of the Social Chamber of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission on Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities and the opinion of the Social Chamber of Slovenia. In its written opinion, the legislature notes that a proposal for a law establishes the possibility of a new legally recognised community of two persons based on mutual respect, trust and assistance. It points out, however, that, in addition to the constitutional provisions relating to the close rights of close relatives or immediate family members, they are also laid down in sectoral laws. It is the rights of family members in various legal and factual situations, such as deprivation of liberty, death, the procedural rights of family members, and therefore considers that it would be appropriate for partners to be treated as close to each other in all these cases. The Legislative and Legal Service also makes comments on the simultaneous regulation of the duties and rights of the partners, as the proposal sets out certain obligations, but does not provide for the rights which relate to those duties in the current legal system. It also points to the regime of succession, since it considers that the total assets as a whole cannot be subject to inheritance, as they belong to both partners, but also has comments on the establishment of two legacy masses. Specific comments were submitted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly to Articles 3, 5, 6, 7, 15, 16, 20, 22, 23, 25, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36 and 37 and 38. The amendments were submitted to the Act by the Slovenian National Party, to the 22nd Article of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to the title of the Act and to the 5, 6, 7, 8, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 25th Article of Article Maja Širc and Majda Potat. In the discussion, it was pointed out that representatives of non-governmental organisations and associations concerned with the content of the legislative proposal did not participate in the drafting of this proposal. For some debaters, the term "registration" in the title of the law is unacceptable, as they believe it is the same-sex relationship between the two people who freely choose to live together. An amendment was submitted to the title of the law to delete the word "registration", but the committee did not accept it. The key debate of the members and members of the Committee referred to Articles 6, 8, 22 and 25. In the context of the discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the amendment of the drafters Majda Širca and Majda Potat to Article 20, the other amendments tabled by the Committee. Many amendments tabled after the adoption of the amendments to the Committee were also irrelevant. The Committee has drawn up and adopted its amendments to practically all the articles addressed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and in this regard the proposal for a law as an amended proposal is also processed and supplemented in this regard. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 128, the Committee also voted on all the articles and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you for the report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. There's an MP's word. Majda Potrat, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u8	Dear Members and Members! Dear Madam Secretary of State! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, the need to regulate the legal property relations of the same-sex partnership, which would guarantee fundamental rights and obligations between partners, as well as with respect to third parties and countries which must ensure equality of human rights and fundamental freedoms, is aware. Other countries have also seen the need to regulate these issues and have regulated them in laws that sometimes, despite the same name, provide different legal certainty. The last example is Switzerland, which adopted a law on the registration of the same-sex partnership at the referendum, in which it also recognises the rights of social, health and pension protection. Social Democrats do not close their eyes to the fact that there are such communities in real life, even if we do not want to know and hear about it. We listened to the wishes of an interested group of people who, through a survey, found that the vast majority wanted to enter into a partnership and thus get out of the closet, although most of them confirmed that they had experienced violence as a result of their sexual orientation in addition to discrimination. That's why we were co-proposers of the law, which was rejected by the National Assembly. It was better than the proposal currently under consideration because it was the result of several annual coordination between the professional, non-governmental organisations and the Ministry of Field Affairs. The long-term search for consensus has not deterred the threat of a referendum, so it is clear that the previous government could resolve these issues if it wanted to, ordinary misappropriation, such as the misappropriation of claims that NGOs were involved in the drafting of this law. If they were once invited to talk and had to comment in an unacceptable short time, this is not a partnership and it is not a dialogue. The non-cooperation of NGOs and hence the absence of partnership is the first reason why we oppose the law. Another reason to oppose the law is that it is not acceptable for an interested group of people as it is now. At two hearings, on the Committee on Petitions and Human Rights and the same opportunities as the working body concerned and on the working body, the amendments tried to put into the text of the comments made by non-governmental organisations. The Group of Members of the Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is trying to improve the law in the third with the proposed amendments and expects to be supported by respected colleagues and colleagues. The third reason for non-supporting the bill is lack of substantive solutions. Stop at the title of the law. The term "registration" is inadequate. It could simply be the title of "the same-sex partnership law." This would not affect the text, since the word "registration" could be replaced by the word "conclusion" throughout the text, without affecting the scope of rights. The conclusion procedure does not take place in such a way as to mark not only the solemn moment but also the moment recorded or detected in front of third parties. The partner is not granted the status of his own. The rights of inheritance are inadequately regulated. The termination of the partnership is also inadequate. The argument that the law must be socially acceptable is related to whether the questions we raise are presented to the public in real or manipulative terms. We are aware of the fact that in Slovenian society, intolerance to different types of society can be seen in a similar way. At the same time, we note that we are increasingly aware of the importance of social inclusion of all groups of the population. Therefore, we also stress the tolerance that we accept as a social concept and as a social practice. Essentially, it is not that we tolerate or allow it to exist, not to persecute it or simply ignore it, but that we also accept it differently and thus ensure the social inclusion of those who, for example, deviate from the dominant sexual orientation. We believe that the rejection and prevention of discrimination is only a step towards genuine equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u9	We continue with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group, mag. Franz Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u10	Dear Members and Members! Following a review of the legal situation, it can be concluded that in Slovenia there is no legal possibility of registration or formal confirmation of the same-sex partner community for adults. As a proposal for a law, the government was based on the fact that, in the case of the same-sex partnership, two adults were involved in a special living community, namely two men or two women. In view of the specificity of such a relationship, it is also appropriate to set out the scope of the rights and obligations of the partners in the draft law. However, when defining the objectives of this Act, it should be borne in mind that the Community is of an important interest to the partners. The law is intended to open up the possibility for same-sex couples to regulate their communities legally, together with their respective rights and obligations under the proposed law. The rights arising from the proposal of this Act are, the right to subsistence and subsistence, the right to acquire and regulate property, the right to housing, the right to inherit common property and the right to obtain information on the health status of the affected partner and to visit health institutions. Non-governmental organisations or representatives of civil society were also involved in the drafting of the law. Some of their comments have been taken into account by the government in the drafting of the law, and all of them cannot be taken into account, for in the case of a homosexual community, it is a special society with a specific need and is not in any way compatible with the needs expressed by the marriage union or by the marriage community. From the debate on the home committee, the opposition has repeatedly said that the bill is invalid, unusable. In New Slovenia, we reiterate that we do not deny homosexual communities the rights they belong to, but there is no way that we can compare homosexual and heterosexual communities. We want them to organize themselves and put themselves in society in a specific and independent way that will be autonomous and independent. For the law cannot equal something that cannot be equalized. In Novi Slovenija we stress that the country must place marriage and family at the centre, not for religious or ideological reasons, not out of sympathy or compassion, but with a real view of our demographic development. In view of the physical survival of the company to which the State serves, the State must declare itself entitled to legal privileges and financial support for the family. This should be a priority project for our own future. Homosexual living communities are not far from fulfilling or fulfilling the tasks that make the marriage community of men and women and the family deserve special social recognition and concern. If it were to constitute the law of two persons of different sexes from a legal point of view only one of the possible forms of the marriage community, this would radically change the concept of the law and bring great harm to the common good. We cannot support this in Novi Slovenija. Due to our understanding of the marriage of husband and wife and family, as is also understood by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 53, Nova Slovenija remains a party that strongly supports the law and family in its existing and only possible form. In Novi Slovenija, we believe that the proposed law, together with the additions adopted on the parent's working body, is a peaceful and sufficiently regulated issue of the same-sex partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thanks again for saying that. Let me say that the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the bill. The proposal for this law has yet to resolve the pending social issue concerning the normative regulation of the common life of the two partners of the same sex in the Republic of Slovenia as the Member State of the European Union, is the first to be settled or resolved. It is interesting, however, that this action has been managed by European comparable conservative parties, which is not a very common scratch. The proposal for a law, irrespective of the fact that its concept is based on a Community registration procedure and not on the concept of the conclusion of this association, essentially resolves all the fundamental issues arising out of the common life of two persons, both under conditions for its legal establishment and under the consequences of common life. However, what is crucial is that the proposal for this law regulates and establishes a property legal relationship, including the issue of inheritance. It is also possible to say that the individuals to whom this law is intended were expecting more. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we are convinced that the solutions that the individual members of this bill bring to the common life of two persons of the same sex are the extent that is still more broadly socially acceptable, especially if we evaluate the proposal in the content of the amended bill prepared by the mother's labour body through a number of adopted amendments, which have also resulted in a legal system to a large extent, thanks to the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly. From this starting point and conceptual design of the bill, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will not support the amendments, as supplemented by the draft law tabled by a group of Members with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Shirco. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. My friend Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! Finally, there is a law before us that is not required of us by the European Union or that does not give us directives and guidelines on how to regulate an area. We have a law before us that doesn't force us to accept urgency and speed. However, given that there are still many unresolved issues in Slovenia that need to be settled and in the light of the speed at which this came into the parliamentary procedure, one gets the feeling that it has nevertheless come under certain pressure. The law before us saw a parliamentary procedure under pressure from a slightly larger marginal group of same-sex people. Therefore, there is a legitimate fear that there will already be a new law at the next meeting, which will regulate the relationship of another marginal group that will find an accomplice in the government or in this national assembly. The law is completely unnecessary, according to the Slovenian National Party, because there are many other areas that would be more urgently regulated. But what it is, it is. Today, this marriage is before us. The fact that the law came under pressure and haste also testifies to the fact that a number of comments were made by the legislative and legal services, as well as the ignorance and inability of government representatives to answer questions from Members and Members on the home working body. If I add to the content of the law on which we have also tabled amendments in the Slovenian National Party, the first paragraph of Article 3 allows us to conclude an incomprehensible registration between the custodian and the guardian, the adoptive and the adoptive, the foster parents and the foster parents when the relationship ends. The fact is that in these relationships a certain almost relative relationship is formed for the duration of the relationship. The second paragraph of Article 3 provides that the same-sex partnership community may conclude two if one is a national of the Republic of Slovenia. This provision allows for a number of manipulations and exploitation of the legal arrangements of the same-sex community. I am not afraid to import gays and lesbians from Sweden and Norway, but we will import them from a nearby neighbourhood, Italy, Croatia, from countries where this status is not regulated. Article 8 lays down the rights enjoyed by same-sex partners following the conclusion of the registration. Among other things, it is the right to housing protection. According to the current data on housing status and residence conditions of Slovenian families, now I am talking about family in a constitutional sense, says the real family, but they do not have the housing right provided for in the Constitution. Today, we are going to put another group in this category, a smaller group of marginal people - already a normal family of countries cannot provide housing protection - and today we are going to offer it to someone else. This is totally unacceptable for the Slovenian National Party. That the law came under pressure and in haste, as I have already said, is evidenced by the fact that government representatives on the home committee were unable to answer specific questions. We agree in the Slovenian National Party that registration of gays and lesbians is necessary and welcome. It's right to make a list, a list, or a register of these people. If not otherwise, it is because of the statistics we use to prove certain facts, and so do we in our performances. As I have already mentioned, we do not agree with the scope of the rights given by law to future same-sex partners. Also, in some segments, particularly in the segment referred to in Article 3, paragraph 2, the law is too wide and allows manipulation. As I have already mentioned, we have also prepared some amendments to a certain article in the Slovenian National Party and have also submitted them, presented them, and defended them on the home labour body, where there has been no obedience from both the other opposition parties and the positions of Members. Otherwise, the committee meeting looked like Members of Parliament, Members of the House, Members of the Government had more flexible exercises than the desire for dialogue, as they had more or less raised counter-cards and they did not, in my opinion, follow the topic that was on the sidelines. The law before us, once again, will highlight the position of the Slovenian National Party, is unnecessary, more prepared by force, a force of pressure, in order to ensure to a group of same-sex-minded who wished certain rights in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you. We are moving on to the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Mr. Willie Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u16	Hello! We are talking about a subject that compels us to accept, I hope, a good or at least a better law than it is now before us. Of course, only if we value humanity, if we appreciate freedom, if we appreciate diversity, if we do not, can we find such a law superfluous. In our parliamentary group, we feel that the situation in our community is such that it is right to deal with such problems, to regulate them, in a way that will be as favourable as possible to those who are actually concerned. We need to remember, unfortunately, some history as well. And this one teaches us that perhaps not everything that could be exploited has been exploited. Once there was agreement, real power was gathered to make a better marriage than this possible, and the will was run out. I hope that today we will not run out of will to improve what is ahead of us, as far as possible. A later retrial, when the first one was actually delayed, was rejected on the parental committee with majority and government support, since it is not a suitable proposal proposed for admission to the National Assembly. It was supposed to be inappropriate because it was conceptually at other points of origin because it demanded too much rights for those for whom it was. The bill we are talking about today is a proposal with the support of a majority in the committee. But this bill has some characteristics. First time. We believe that the proposal for a law is very ambitious, that more could be done so that more should be done. We also believe that it has some characteristics that are typical of some other laws. If we think of just one that we have recently adopted, the law on changes in respect of displaced persons, where, for example, it has been said about this - one of the arguments was that those who are not from here and therefore do not pay taxes are not entitled to such a right. We are now talking about people who are from here paying taxes and contributions and who do not have the right to do so. The government in the introduction says that the law is written by trying to take into account the social circumstances prevailing in Slovenia today. If so, of course we need to think seriously about it. I am afraid that it is so, therefore, that the circumstances are such that they are unfavorable to raise resistance to those who are different from us to actually stigmatise them. Some would just make registers to make stigmatization easier, so they wouldn't possibly be dealing with it and looking for themselves. But we already know this kind of practice from history. She wasn't good. What bothers us in this regard is that we adopt a law at a lower level, we could make it higher. This level that we are talking about today is, in fact, almost the lowest possible level, it cannot be cut down, because the whole range of rights concerning social, health, pension, housing and other protection is too low. But even at this lower level, a total of 20 amendments were proposed for 38 articles. Only one of them was the one who wasn't on the boards, and he was adopted. Those adopted by the Committee were amendments adopted by the Committee on the basis of comments and opinions from the legislative and legal service. It was almost impossible to accept them, but it was impossible to accept them. We hope that even after the 30 amendments to the 20 articles were adopted on the Committee to make any further changes, we will support further amendments. We will also support the bill because it would be even worse if we did not have anything regulated, but we will not be proud of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Ambassador Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! We will, of course, support the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group's proposal for a law on same-sex partnership, which has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact that we are discussing the same topic for the second time within three months suggests, on the one hand, the real severity of the problem in question and, on the other hand, that it has prepared the present government, which has listened to the problem and the law which will regulate the area, as an urgent one. Thus today, 8 months after the current government's appearance, we are discussing a law that the previous government has not been able to adopt in 8 years of so-single cooperation and negotiation with NGOs, despite the majority in Parliament, and it has been considered a supremely liberal and delicate government. Such cooperation by the former authorities with NGOs, which unfortunately did not result in any result, can be marked without bad news as a waste of taxpayer money, since in 2003 the previous government approved 3 million and 420.00 tolars, although it did not adopt the law. Insinuation that the coalition does not participate and even ignore the proposals of non-governmental organisations has also been constantly emerging in recent times. We strongly reject such an indication in the SDS Group. In connection with the law under consideration today, they were also rejected by the NGO representative himself, Mr Bblažič, who, on behalf of the Association for the Integration of Homosexuality, said on the contrary, on behalf of the Committee on the Integration of Homosexuality at the suggestion of Ambassador Shirce that the Government should propose a law which its future users reject, I quote: "Let me say that in DIH we positively assess the decision of the Government to regulate the open issues of rights and duties of same-sex partnerships. The same-sex partnerships in Slovenia exist, and the fact is that so far the state has not recognised them as non-existent and that the country has not recognised any rights to them. The government's decision to address this issue is considered positive and respectful by the DIH."the end of the quote. In the SDS Group, we are aware that the area in question needs to be regulated and that the same-sex partners need to facilitate their social situation, while at the same time we believe that it is enough to achieve such a goal if the same-sex partners are allowed to register their communities. This is also the case in most European countries. Finally, European legislation leaves the possibility for this area to be regulated in accordance with the country's social climate. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has also carried out a public opinion survey which shows that almost two thirds of respondents agree that this area is regulated by a specific law. We also reject in the SDS parliamentary groups any equation of the same-sex community with the marriage of men and women either in a formal or symbolic sense. The Marriage and Family Relations Act is primarily designed to protect children who represent the weakest member of society and depend on them for the future of society and the country. However, we are aware of the serious problem that we are dealing with today. This is one of those areas that requires a very subtle solution to this problem, because it concerns a person in all his essence, his integrity and his dignity. These are rights that must never and in no way be violated. These guidelines were followed by the government when it prepared the law that we are talking about today. The law regulates common property, housing protection, the right to survival, the right to a disease, and an area of inheritance is also regulated. In the SDS Group, we also believe that we cannot uncritically accept all the examples and patterns from the Netherlands that you offer as an ideal model to opposition parties, although negative trends in the Netherlands may sometimes be excessively liberal or too quick to make. At the same time, you forget that large European countries such as Greece, Italy and Austria, as well as Luxembourg, do not have this area regulated. We are obviously somewhere between the Netherlands and these countries and in the same situation as most European countries, which regulate this area by registering same-sex relations. This is a big step forward, so we do not accept the impression that we do not take this area seriously enough and do not show openness to this issue, let alone that the government coalition behaves in this law. [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] undemocratic and even xenophobic. [[...]] In the SDS Parliamentary Group, we will support the government's proposal for legislation in order to enable the same-sex partners to enjoy a better quality of life as soon as possible, which they have been waiting for for eight years.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u19	Please, if you finish. Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation of the position of the Member's LDS Club, Ambassador Majda Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u20	We also regret today that we are meeting only some of the Ministry's employees and that dialogue on this law will also take place today without the Minister's presence. In the dialogue of the National Assembly, the Minister has not yet appeared on the subject of this Act, nor has he been at his home work. We regretted this every time, because the Ministry representatives did not know how to give us the right answers. It is true, however, that we know the Minister’s true answers from the previous period and that they have always gone in a direction where homosexuality was understood to be a disorder, a medical disorder, or a phenomenon, sexually disrupting phenomenon. Today’s discussion is understood as the last possible attempt to correct certain problems and shortcomings that are in this law and that are few. Given the insolence on the family committee, the work, I'm afraid this attempt will go empty, but still. In the following week, Spain will meet with the adoption of a law that amounts to 100% equalization of marriage with same-sex partner communities. We have heard that a referendum has recently taken place in Switzerland where the beneficiaries of inheritance and also the tax system are equal in both heterosexual and same-sex partnerships. Scotland has recently exercised the right to adopt for undisputed and also for same-sex partnerships, as Britain has done in 2003. Our rights, which we will obviously gain by this law, are selective. The proposal for a law that we have before us does not adequately cover the rights of social health and disability insurance, but merely taxively lists some selected at the discretion of the Ministry, regulated rights, does not touch on the definition of the status of family members and does not specify the inheritance rights or only those inheritance rights that relate to common property. In this respect, there is a great weakness and understanding of NGOs that have made comments and have only been heard on one narrow just mentioned segment, in short, on the common succession right, but not on the whole of the succession right that today and even in the last days cannot be involved in this unequal dialogue, which, as I say, has been a monologue and is not right today to manipulate their views. We believe in the Liberal Democracy that this is a hypocritical law. Otherwise, the government will boast of understanding gays and lesbians and allowing them to register or register their relationships. However, registration allows for limited rights, those rights that the government likes at its discretion. This assessment is selected in principle: as few rights as possible, the better. And that makes us sad. It saddens us to consider this law, including the fact that if we remember the former uncontested bill, which was based on analysis and long processes, including dialogue, and the fact that this law is based only on one survey. All the answers we met were in this direction. The poll said it was the same. But the poll only asked one question: whether we need this law or not. And we've known for so many years that we need him. I'm afraid that poll is going to find out in a few years that the law isn't useful. And that makes us sad. If any comments are supported, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We will try to support him, but if we do not enforce them, we will have to reconsider his decision. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I shall proceed to the debate and decision on the articles and amendments tabled, which I shall guide on the basis of the review of the amendments of 16.6.2005. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of Ambassador Majda Shirca and Mag. Majde Potrat. Who wants a word? Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Article 6 governs the Community registration procedure. As is now the case in the updated text proposal, it is improved to learn as originally proposed. So allow me to say first that the proposed marriage text and this article can be considered from this point of view that the time needed to prepare the law was, but it was in the interest of us to discuss even such a minimalist law in the context of the expected support of the law. At least if I judge by the opinions of the parliamentary groups, the support of the coalition is almost impossible for the law not to be adopted. However, whatever we call the process of conclusion, whether it is a registration or a conclusion, it is not possible to ignore the fact that, as this process is now written, it is still just a matter of two that the community concludes and an official at the official window. A third person who would have participated in this event as a witness does not take this procedure into account. That is why such an option is envisaged in the amendment and it is envisaged that they will participate in the registration - the term must remain because it was not possible to introduce a conclusion - so that there are also two witnesses in the registration of the same-sex partner community. It may be possible to discuss, of course, that the spectrum of solutions offered by laws in the European Union is very broad. But that the conclusion of a relationship is an important event for those two who conclude it, or for those two who conclude it, it cannot be denied. Nor can it be denied that in some countries that were previously heard, it is not appropriate to follow them, because they are preliberal and therefore are already having difficulties, let us say, reading in public on 23 May this year that even Catholic and Protestant priests have been blessing same - sex relations in the Netherlands for a year. And that in a public opinion survey involving 70% of all priests, they said they would gladly report them to the church. This is said to really depend on the openness of a society, which seems to be part of a society that, according to the pope's statements, is strongly opposed by the institution that is running it and such a relationship, is close in another country to such an institution that some recognition in the form of a blessing, if that is what those who conclude such a relationship expect and demand. Therefore, the requirement that there be witnesses to the same-sex partnership is indeed acceptable and minimal and in fact would be realized by what the supporters of the same-sex partnership law, the previous one, had in mind all along. Once again, not only do we recognize and realize that such relationships also exist, but also that we accept them and allow them to show themselves outside is what should be the criterion for the admissibility of a legal decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u23	A colleague of Happy Friend signed up for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u24	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues! If I may, my colleague Majda would like to thank you for such deep Christian thoughts. But I would have pushed this debate into a single saying that love can also be a disease. What we accept today is kind of embarrassing for Slovenia. If we treat alcoholism, kleptomania, we could also treat it to some appropriate institution. I think if we're talking about an amendment, it's hard to talk about a marriage that's not normal, it's not natural. We will be doing the wrong to children who can be adopted, and we will be able to do the wrong to generations who will in fact be exposed to neglect. In school, such a child will not be equally involved in a community. I am alone against such acts, and it is also inhumane to listen to the motioners to make the opposition a group. We don't agree with that. I don't think it's Christian or normal or ethical. Therefore, I will not support this law or any amendment other than ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you. Mrs. Potts, did you want a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u26	Of course, I want to replicate the insufferable mark that same sexual orientation is a disease. At the level of general education, it is considered that no different non-dominant sexual orientation can be considered a sign of disease. If that belief is still alive in someone, it would be good to learn from basic students at least how to deal with it. However, I am pleased, Mr Friend, that the Slovenian National Party does not belong to the opposition party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you. We continue the debate. There's a colleague, Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, Members. Honourable representative and representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In human society, there are two people's living communities, either different or the same sex that help each other. First, i.e. the living community of two persons of different sexes, in the Republic of Slovenia is governed by the law on marriage and family relations, which has a significant basis in the Slovenian Constitution. Secondly, the living community of two persons of the same sex wants to regulate the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by law on the registration of the same-sex partner community. Like most European countries, the Republic of Slovenia has also seen the need to regulate the relations of such communities and wishes to regulate the situation and consequences of the existence and termination of the same-sex partnership by law. The main objective of the proposed law is to regulate the legal status of same-sex partnerships. The law follows social circumstances in the Republic of Slovenia and legally regulates the new social relationship of same-sex partnerships. I personally support the position of the bill's proposer, which was based on the fact that in the case of same-sex partnerships, two adults, two men or two women, are a special community of life. In view of the specificity of such a relationship with the proposal for a specific law, the proposer shall regulate the legal position of the same-sex partner community and shall appropriately determine the extent of the rights and the extent of the duties of the partners. In defining the objectives of this law, it should be borne in mind that the same-sex community is particularly in the interest of partners and not those who, for example, would like to gain a political point by doing so. The important rights arising from the bill are: the right to subsistence and subsistence, the right to acquire property and to regulate property relations, the right to housing, the right to inherit common property and the right to obtain information about the health status of the affected partner and to visit health institutions. It is a matter of opening up the possibility for same-sex couples to regulate their communities legally, together with their respective rights and obligations under the proposed law. The registration of the same-sex partner community guarantees rights arising from the relationship between the partners and allows the partners to legally regulate their relationship with each other's responsibilities and obligations. I do not favour the adoption of the proposed amendment to Article 6 of the proposed law. My colleagues and colleagues in our Group feel the same way. The proposed amendment does not significantly contribute to the achievement of the basic objectives of the law on the registration of the same-sex partnership. The question is whether it would be right for the law to enforce two witnesses, the question is whether interested same - sex couples want it. It is an important registration of the partner community and I therefore believe that the oral declaration alone is not a serious enough statement for what the partners actually want to achieve. I support the bill proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! Gays and lesbians have not been since yesterday, not today, but it is during Mr Drobnič's ministry that we will get a law regulating their relations, even though your opponents are so maligned by European institutions. Opposers are disturbed by everyone, but above all they are disturbed by the fact that same-sex-oriented communities will not be equated with marriage between husband and wife. This cannot be because this community is not equal to the marriage between husband and wife. I am surprised that you have so much to do with the official ties, the marriage between the same-sex partners and the "ceramony" around the wedding, but we know that there is never as few report in Slovenia as there is today. They say it's not modern, it's not worth it, it's not necessary, it's binding and it's like an excuse. But you simply rape them, and you want them to make these connections, even though many of these partners don't want to. The union will also be valid without witnesses, according to the proposed law. That is why I do not support the sixth amendment or amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you. A colleague of Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! In the introductions, it may be necessary to apologize that these are not ordinary staff, Mrs Shirca, but are State Secretary and v.d. Director of the same Ministry. This is not the right thing to do, insulting these government representatives. Like the next one. I'll say so. This law is one of those things that I will find very difficult to press this key for, but still so that this story can be arranged in a special way, because it is also a special story. This thing that we accept today at the proposal of the government in the National Assembly, and I know absolutely nothing about these things, but I will also do so within the framework of the parliamentary group, and I myself support this story that for those few Slovenes and Slovenians, this story is finally settled, and it is said that it has been waiting for more than 8 years. I think that I will be given the opportunity, as an officer in charge of marriage, not to have this opportunity to report such a law at any time; then I will certainly be missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office! I am in favour of this, of course, Article 6 being taken into account, mainly because of the fact that the law on same-sex partnerships is to be brought to life in the way it is necessary not to be outside our legal system. This is because some things, such as oral statements, for start-up, oral registration or even de-registration, which is supposed to be mere oral, smell better under Sharia law, where it is enough for the partner to say three times that I have enough of you, and then the relationship is dissolved. I said a proposal for a law on the same-sex partnership community on purpose, because I think that the law should be called that, because it does not only regulate registration, but also regulates a number of matters that result from this registration and, above all, the consequences of living together. Here we are now moving to a slippery area, when we suddenly begin to give new meanings and somehow withdraw them from that important area that they have otherwise. Registration means simply recording what already exists, which is already so clear and which has all the consequences. Here we see that this conclusion of the relationship does not have all the consequences, but only some of the chosen ones. I'm going to support the marriage on my own, because I think it's a little better than nothing. In particular, because of the fact that these very few couples in Slovenia, however, will be able not to be in eternal trouble because of the discrimination that is otherwise caused by the unjust situation that is now. The second thing that seems important to me, including the article, is that the oral statement is replaced by a written statement. The matter is stronger, more binding, binding, of course, between the two partners and then has some legal value and legal effect, otherwise it would have been complicated in any dispute, as it is certainly true that these relations are subject to the same time as other heterosexuals. And as far as the use of the word "faggot" we've heard here. In this sense, of course, it is acceptable because it means homosexual. Unfortunately, however, the Slovenians have already managed to move this meaning and it means more of a character than a homosexual.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much. In its implementation, a colleague from NSI first asked whether the desire of same-sex partners is such that they want the registration procedure referred to in Article 6. Those who know the wishes of the users of this law know what they have also tried to achieve within the Ministry and which, of course, their comments were not taken into account, so it is also right to say them at this point. They say and wish that the form would be different from that proposed in the law and that the procedure should be unfortunately registered - unfortunately for registration, they themselves have endeavoured not to register, but to be called as the conclusion of same-sex partnerships, because, as they themselves have said, the law inappropriately calls the registration, which resembles the so-called "black" lists, the list of homosexuals who are a matter of the past. Let the comments be made on why they justify the presence of two witnesses. They say that the law allows for the choice of the same-sex partnership to be concluded in a solemn but also in a non-verbal form, they certainly say, and that the conclusion of the community should not take place in any section of the administrative unit behind a certain counter, so we propose that the conclusion take place in places where marriages are otherwise concluded, as this is a situation that is quite comparable. The often-mentioned argument that the same-sex relationship is by nature different from that of diversity, because it is closed to life, they say, is extremely ideological, since the condition of marriage is not a continuation of generation, but it is only a potential that the spouse takes advantage of or does not. In this context, of course, understanding the correction of this amendment is logical. An amendment to at least one, it's hard to say if you don't make peace [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u37	Mrs. Shirca, please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u38	The amendment shall at least a few human beings conclude the procedure. Now it can happen anywhere when the partners just fill out a form. The amendment also removes the confusion between the statement and the consensus, which is also important as it provides for an earlier oral statement. The conclusion or literal registration does not take place in places where marriages are concluded and therefore this correction is here. Of course, here we are moving in a closed and already defined dictatorship, in short, we no longer have the opportunity to interfere with an address that we still think is very, very controversial. Also at the semantic level, we know that registration is not only because the dictionary of the Slovenian book language tells us that it is an incomparable registration that applies to the registration of an aircraft, the dispatch of packages, the earthquake sun, weapons, working organizations, the registration of electricity or certain members. At the semantic level, it is no longer appropriate, but it is possible that we are now facing this and I hope that, once in the future, there will be possible changes at other levels. As far as the amendment is concerned, I think it would make sense to find at least a more human form that would not push the same-sex partners into a semi-secret or non-essential and restrictive process.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u39	The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about the amendment to Article 6. The first thing I would like to say is that the comparison of the decline in the number of marriages, the conclusion of marriages between men and women, and the impact of the eventual recognition of the relationship between the same-sex partners as marriages, is completely on broken legs. The fact is that the number of marriages between men and women in Slovenia has fallen mainly because we have one very free liberal - I would say not liberally that someone would not misunderstand - the rule is that relations between men and women are considered to be a family relationship if partners live together for a certain period of time. It is said that they do not need to be married, and therefore they have all the rights, all the rights arising from the marriage concluded before the state authority. That's how empty it is when we talk about how disastrous it is, because we don't have marriages. The fact is that children are born to us that as early as last year, the number of newborns has started to grow slowly and this trend is gradually continuing this year, so I think that the impact of same-sex marriages on the demographic picture cannot be expected. Above all, I must say that relationships between same-sex partners exist, whether they are concluded or not. It is said that this possible impact on the demographic image of Slovenia could already be extremely long, so that, of course, the unconstitutional relationship between the same-sex partners has bad consequences for them. The second thing I'd like to say is that I, too, am an attorney, as probably a number of people here in this national council, to form marriage alliances. Of course, for today, according to the Family and Family Relations Act. And I would be extremely happy to have the opportunity to be the author of a marriage relationship between two same-sex partners or partners. Why? Because we would have proven once again that the Slovenians are the people we're open to. Which their tolerance or tolerance for Slovenia is not a foreign feeling, a foreign attitude towards the environment. Who are not hostile to people who are different from us. We're not ready to wipe out anyone who thinks otherwise than we think. And who are willing to go so far as to express this hatred publicly, in front of the auditorium of all our constituents. I think it should be a shame for those voters who hear that their electorates use the words we have heard today regarding the amendment to Article 6. I will of course support the amendment, as will the other amendments, which improve the position of same-sex partners in the event that they are finally given the opportunity to enter into a partnership, a marriage. And there's something else I'd like to say. I will, of course, support the marriage, no matter how narrow and, I'll say, it will be non-liberal. However, I will also make every effort in my entire mandate to work with colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly and in cooperation with civil society movements in the area of same-sex partners continuously to improve this law. You will have to work very hard many times to prevent this European law from being comparable. In the most Christian country of this Europe, Spain, a much more liberal law on same-sex partnerships has been adopted than we will. I think the Catholics here in this circle should think differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you. I invite Boštjan Zagorec to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as Article 6 is concerned, in the Slovenian National Party we absolutely oppose any extension of rights to gays and lesbians, which Article 6 certainly gives them. However, I must point out that the representative of the largest government party, when she presented her position, mentioned that the children were the weakest member of the family. Of course, we cannot agree with this at all. Children are the most beautiful family member, but they are the most vulnerable family member. And if the government has drawn up a law under the pretext that children are the weakest member of the family, then I sincerely regret that this was your foundation when you were making the content of this law. I'd also like to mention this. The same representative of the largest government party mentioned in her performance that the opposition is advocating a Dutch model. No, this part of the opposition - and here I will thank Mrs Potret for not putting us in this part of the opposition that advocates this model - advocates what we have already said in the first place, that any arrangement of the same-sex partnership community does not seem necessary. So, as I said in the beginning, marriage is totally unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you very much. First of all, I must say that, on behalf of New Slovenia, I am protesting that we are being labeled impatient here. We have heard many times in the past four years that we are xenophobic and so forth, and at the same time these same people, I would say, here they are degraded by the present secretary of state and by the acting director and against such doing I am also joining what has already been said - strongly protesting. Here we are, I think, enough, ladies and gentlemen, and that this is no way to discuss and please stop this once. I'm trying to be a Christian myself, and I'm not gonna say that I am, because you could tell me something right now, of course, and I'm not gonna say I'm not. And my answer is, I'm trying to be. In this direction, we are looking for the best solutions, and I think that all the honour of this government, which will resolve this issue with this law, has not been settled by the previous government, and that we will once again put this debate on the agenda in this country. But it is also with this law for some additional social recognition of homosexuality as a way of life, and this is exactly what we do with this law, and I do not allow or refuse that Mrs Pečanova speaks about this intolerance in this way. Now the other one. Those who advocate the need to make a ceremony out of these marriage alliances or from these registrations that will be the same as the marriage, but most in this national assembly are not in favor of such a solution. We are for registration, but we are not for marriage or for the elements of this registration, which have certain elements of the marriage bond between husband and wife. It will not come to what I once heard the Ljubljana mayor who said, "I look forward to doing the first one," but she vowed not to say the ceremony, but to say the funeral. Then she said, "I'm nervous," and I saw it on TV, and so I hope to do it again in this place. Otherwise, as far as certain values are concerned and definitions are concerned, I would like to add something else that I read in one of the discussions of a Swedish sociologist who says: "Most children in Sweden and Norway are born out of law." It is no coincidence that in this country they have been closely associated with fully recognised same-sex marriages for decades or more. The same-sex weddings strengthened and strengthened the Scandinavian trend of the breakdown of marriage and parenthood. This is self-explanatory, where they have arranged this matter very liberally. And then she wonders, and says, are they going to be same-sex weddings, that's for Sweden and Norway, that same-sex weddings are going to undermine the institution of a classic marriage relationship between husband and wife and answer it, they already did. With this, of course, if we are doing some publicity - and in this amendment it is this, this with witnesses and so on - then of course on the long run I agree to do just that. And for this reason, of course, as my fellow Members have already said in the New Slovenia Group, we will not agree to this amendment, as well as all the other amendments that are trying to enter into this law the elements that are characteristic of the marriage ceremony between husband and wife. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Purchasing, do you have a replica or just a discussion? For the debate. Mrs. Shirca, here's the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u46	The second time I replicated Mr. Sok, he mentioned my name. I would like to point out that I still do not think it is right that we have not faced the Minister once in all the debates so far, and therefore I stress the surprise that he is not here today, regardless of the excuse that he is not here today. However, we also understand, of course, that he avoided all confrontations, given that his views on this law are already known in previous periods and that he was also the first to be signed under, I will say, the so-called suspension of the previous law, which in the end also prevented the timely adoption of the law. However, we have repeatedly faced the VD Director of the Family Directorate and the Madam Secretary of State as today. However, our answers, our questions remained unanswered, or they were based only on the fact that - as I say, the whole question referred to what was answered by the survey, which was carried out by a group of public opinion detectives or when we asked ourselves about fundamental and once obvious arguments, even though the previous law did not contain financial consequences, we received the last answer that the Ministry does not have any assessments and that it will be seen after the law has been brought to life. In short, the answers we received from the Ministry were minimal, misleading or lacked sufficient opportunities and arguments to establish dialogue at all. We regretted this and in this respect my observation that I regret that there are no real interlocutors from the Ministry of Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you. We continue the debate. Mr. Sok, there's usually no replica on the replica, but this time he let you do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u48	So, I would only, if the chairman would allow, want to explain that the minister wanted this point to be postponed because he has an excuse for his absence, and at the outset, when we adopted the agenda, I also proposed this and I received an answer from the President of the National Assembly that it was not possible to do so for other reasons. Thus, the Minister wanted to attend this debate today, and he does not hold that he would like to avoid these questions that you are asking. However, he kept answering questions, but of course the other problem is whether you are satisfied with these questions or not, obviously you are not, but it is not true that he did not answer them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u49	We continue the debate. My colleague Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you, Chairman. In the explanatory memorandum to Article 6, this is the content of not going like this again, it reads: "by all means, the conclusion of the community must not take place in any section of the administrative unit behind the counter where the partners fill out the form." I absolutely agree, purely. But the partners of the husband and wife who are looking for an apartment are building this very community to provide a child, in one room, 30 square feet, at the counter. The people who are looking for help are looking for her at the counter for the first time. Another time. I'm the mayor, and I'm never in my life until, if I do, I'm not marrying the same-sex partners. I won't. I'd rather step down. Third time. Today we have heard a statement that marriage is not a matter of kin. There may be some truth in this statement, but how painful this statement is for those who have their own kind and do not know where, for those who would like it, they do not hope because they do not have these options, but especially is a painful statement for those who would like it, whose love lives for only one child, two or three, but for health reasons and other reasons they cannot do so. And I would like to see one amendment in which, in the next paragraph or in the new bill, we could increase the amount of, I don't know, two, three, five billion funding for the development of innovation in health to enable people to give birth - those who are sick. This statement is cruel to all those who cannot have it. Fourth time. I'll be brief and clear. We've also heard that relationships between same-sex partners exist regardless of Yes, but why are we in this national council again today dealing with something that exists? [[..]] Why? If they're same-sex partners, if they live together, if they have a place to live, let them live. I don't care if two guys like each other or two girls, let's just... let's just... let's not make them feel bad about each other. So, the fact is, and not least, ladies and gentlemen, because there are countries abroad that allow for the conclusion of the same-sex community and that these gentlemen go to Sweden, or that the ladies, Norway, Denmark, as well as Slovenian workers go to work in Austria, Italy and Sweden and do not have it at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you. The word is "Cveta Zalokar Orazem."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that those we conclude under the authority of the chiefs of administrative units and report are, in fact, officially appointed officials for the conclusion of marriages. And I think that in a lot of democratic societies, if someone expressed such a discriminatory position as the speaker before me, it would probably be right to lose that title and that function, because such a discriminatory expression, which marriages would never want to conclude, seems absolutely inappropriate to me. No matter how many excuses there are here today regarding the absence of a minister, I think that few laws or amendments we adopt in Parliament have been adopted at any stage of the procedure without the presence of a minister; there are few such laws. In particular, this law does not deserve this, which I think would greatly dispel in every society the opinions that would fuck. However presented here today and looking for excuses, it is a fact, and it is my observation that the Minister is absolutely avoiding this topic. Last but not least, about three months ago, we even found him on a lie when we examined the law tabled by the LDS Group and the Social Democrats. Of course, this is nothing out of the ordinary and probably the minister hasn't changed his mind in a year. Apparently, he is afraid that he should say this opinion here, or he does not want to say it, for whenever he says so, he often makes a major blow. I'd like to say, quote what the minister said exactly one year ago. He said, "it's homosexuality," and I quote, "medical disorder, or it's a sexual phenomenon, which is a disorder." Here it must be said that it is unusual that the minister, then a Member, does not know that the World Health Organisation has already removed homosexuality from the list of diseases, and this has long been the case. He also declared in 2003 [[otherwise it's a two-year gap]] : "The inclination is not tolerated [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u53	Excuse me, Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, we're talking about an amendment to Article 6. You're just going a little too far. Please stick to the content! Although I have decided not to limit the substantive debate in the event that someone does not go too far. And you're going too far. The contents of the amendment to Article 6 refer to something completely different and not to Minister Petty Officer. Please respect the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u54	I'm talking about the status of homosexuality, because we've heard statements here today, love is a disease. Of course, it is a proverb that has really been in force for a very long time, but this proverb has not been written because of homosexual couples or homosexual love, but because of the conclusion that a person can’t resist love like a disease, it’s actually that love is in this sense like a disease. Of course, love comes, love happens, love is chemistry, love is sympathy, love is sparks, love cannot be directed, and much is told about literary works, no matter what material differences are, what physical qualities are, what is the color of the skin and, finally, what sex is. You can't force it, your colleagues and your colleagues to stop it. And it doesn't help, it doesn't help, it doesn't help, it doesn't help, it doesn't help, it doesn't help, it doesn't help discrimination, it tells us history, because from Sappho onward in ancient Greece, it's the predisposition that exists, and you, too, colleagues and colleagues, you can't stop it. It would, of course, be good if, on the basis of such experience in the Slovenian Parliament, we were also to adopt and think and that parliamentarians and parliamentarians would show significantly more tolerance, understanding and openness to this matter. I will not support such a law, in which it will not be supplemented, even this addition, which we are now talking about, or the amendment, because such a law has shrunk, in fact, a sort of blinding maneuver is being implemented to cover that something has been done. However, you all know that such a law does not agree with those who are touched by the law, even more, that the law is discriminatory, so I don't even know why we accept it. Obviously for those who want to ease their conscience or perhaps for Europe to show that something has also been done in Slovenia. However, in any way made inappropriate, minimized, far from standards, and of course a whole range of problems will appear in the future, making it clear that the law is not prepared in such a way that it actually covers all the issues covered by this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you. Members, honourable Members, you have all used the general provisions or general discussion in the framework of the amendment to Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure. In view of the fact that I said I would not restrict the substantive debate. But I am just reawakening to you that this kind of debate will, of course, trigger the chain system and everyone will be following you on to discuss everything else, just not the amendment to Article 6. Therefore, from this point of view, I ask that, as far as possible, you stick to the contents of the amendment to Article 6. We continue the debate. Next on the list of applicants is a colleague of Paula Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! The law we are adopting today is the first step in the history of Slovenia, with which we will give the possibility of regulating the same-sex partners for a slightly more normal life. I am sure that this is not an extreme form of law, that this will change many times, but of course the first part and the first good will, if not the ability that has also been demonstrated by such a criticised minister, to settle this matter. For 8 years or more, you needed to coordinate, talk to NGOs, and I can label this as a complete lie. The former government, the coalition, the Liberal Democracy and the United List at the time, you needed it, you urgently needed it for an outpouring, orgasm, if you want, to read other xenophobics, intolerance. You've used homosexual partners for long, long years just to criticise, condemn, and kill the opposite opinion. On purpose, I have used a few phrases about same-sex partners in families in this package, but in the media, which have been extremely left-wing, Youth and others, I have experienced ridicule, criticism, so not what you are advocating to be free, free, perhaps, as in the Netherlands, even by blinking recognized, perhaps even perpetuated if someone admitted to being same-sex. No, the other way around! A mockery, regret only because someone who isn't SD or LDS said so. Eight years of pure lies! And what I'm reading today, and with these amendments, I see, is a lie to a lie. I condemn everyone, condemning extreme right-wingers and extreme left-wingers. You all have a homosexual subject for mutual accounting, to prove who will be the greater xenophobic, who will be the greater impatience, and the solution is here in law, at least the first part of this solution. And all you've done so far is nothing, no one's solved any problem, no ridicule, no what, nothing what. Ladies and gentlemen, since when is the law of the world and the sacrament, that you now want to marry homosexuals and marry one another with some ceremony, but if you already have a law about - you call it a normal law, and I am a law between two partners of different sexes - it means nothing; if the official who is married declares that a woman is an integral part of his life, all the newspapers are full of ridicule. Who are you lying to? You're lying to yourself. Since when do Communists refer to Christian ethics, and to the Pope, please! Do you know why you need this? So that a guy like the one who talks here would tell you that and you'd label him as a big xenophobic in tomorrow's newspaper and the media. But in this national assembly, in the process of taking or making decisions, in the working body the same possibilities of so much intolerance because some of us have been thinking differently that - I'm sorry, Mrs Shirca and Mrs Majda Potter - you would not expect them from men. I can't even give a sex score! I would order you a mandatory marriage review of the leg to find out which sex you are at all, so that you can declare such abominations as you did at the expense of those we otherwise thought. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] [[...]] It's not a lady. This is not hate speech, these are the facts that have been exposed here in this House. So I'm not talking about the Slovenian National Party. I'm sorry, you can't make excuses about other people, with other beliefs, just like you do. And I personally condemn the far left and the far right, who takes this for mutual reckoning. I would therefore suggest that we accept as calmly as possible what is proposed without any additional performances that will not benefit anyone. It is a handful of people, and most in this country this law will not change life, bring them nothing better, nothing new, just mutual reckoning, intolerance and what we all have more than enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u57	Before this performance, I have warned all Members and Members that the direction of the debate depends solely on you speakers. And since I've already, like all of you, long ago noticed that no one adheres to the contents of the amendment to point 6, and I've also predicted that I won't interrupt the debaters, because I think you have to watch what you're saying, so I didn't do it this time. Therefore, we continue with the Procedural Proposal, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u58	Mr. Vice President, have I heard the same words as you? Have we heard, or have I heard the same words as all of you in here, that one of our fellow Members proposed the examination of the hindquarters - did I hear that word - two or not know how many Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u59	Please give me a procedural proposal or a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u60	If Mr Rupar does not apologize immediately for the words, if you do not ask him for an apology, I request immediate recess or an immediate obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u61	Allow me, hand to heart, to request an apology in this National Assembly for any price slowly begin to bore. You have been alerted to the need to take care of the content, and write down the contents or consequences yourself. Therefore, I will not ask Mr Paulet Rupar to apologize, you can take advantage of the business option, obstruct the meeting, leave the meeting, but it is most reasonable, in my opinion, that we continue the debate at this time on the basis of the Members declared as you have applied. That's why I'm gonna do it. I won't give you another word. Mr. Paula Rupar, neither do you, Comrade Friday, nor you. That's why I keep going. Next on the log-in list [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u62	Mr President, I have been appointed and I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u63	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u64	Well, thank you very much, though I know we should get a word in front of the others, those who have requested procedurally. But I'm going to take this opportunity to say that I'm not surprised by the words we've heard, because some of them can be expected in advance, such words. But I'm surprised that some people smile at it kindly -- people I wouldn't expect to. Now I'm going back to the amendment. As far as this amendment is concerned, I will support it. I'd support a lot of other people who didn't come through the sieve because they make sense. It cannot be expected that all those who are authorized to report will be ashamed of this. I will proudly do so whenever possible, and I will thus confirm that I am in character open. As for the possibility that this law would not bring this subject back into the agenda for many years, I do not think it will work. The fewer amendments that will improve will be adopted, more will be needed to quickly find this law again, or a proposal for amendments on the agenda. As for some other parallel things in this regard, let me say that there are quite a few in this House that are equally gender-oriented. And perhaps there is absolutely nothing wrong with Mr Gulič's thoughts when he even mentioned character traits.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you. The panellist for the debate is colleague Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I have remained in the Chamber despite the extreme harassment, Mr Rupar, of the rudeness that you have allowed yourself to two fellow Members, regardless of whether they feel otherwise that they would say some of their opinions on the amendment proposal and on the occasion of the marriage. The debate we are hearing today shows the state of the spirit in this national assembly, and unfortunately also because we are representatives of the people, the state of spirit on this issue in our country. This condition of the spirit may differ. If you were a great optimist, then you could say that all the efforts that my client, which the Liberal Democracy has made, and especially those that have been invested by civil society organisations in the last years in the drafting of this law, have borne fruit because the law, I hope, will be adopted today. Certainly it took a lot of effort in the public, in the work of the government, in Parliament, in the mutual relations between the parties, even in the previous government coalition, because we had long discussions, whether to draft a law or not, whether this law should have been so, because there were also different views on solutions and content in the coalition. All of this has helped us to have this marriage. So once again, if you were an optimist, you'd be happy to accept it. However, if I listen to today's debate, then I must say that I am concerned about how you understand and how many fellow Members and Members will adopt this law - with the incredulity that you never intend to implement it, that it is a law that harms Slovenia, that it is a law that is unjust, that does not take into account all the other things that are the problem of our country, but which has nothing to do with registration or the content of the relations of same-sex partners, then I must say that I am concerned. I'd like to give you my opinion on just two, three things. First, when we adopted the Slovenian Constitution in 1991, I understood - and such are all the explanations - that article 14, when it said that equality was guaranteed, regardless of any other personal circumstances, always understood that sexual orientation was included in these personal circumstances. And all the interpretations of the Constitution, read them to yourselves, and they talk about it. It is also said that there is an obligation to enforce this equality at this point. But if someone has tried hard to read the Constitution of Europe, which unfortunately agrees with it and does not run as we wanted, and in Slovenia we have adopted this constitution, then directly and directly it says, "equality, regardless of the different sexual orientation". And it would be right, ladies and gentlemen, to understand and respect what we have all accepted in the European Constitution. This is about equality before a law that does no harm to anyone, but gives some fundamental rights to those who have such a orientation and have decided to do so. And now for the amendment to Article 6. I repeat what I have said, the state of the spirit is that, in the majority view, marriage is an urgent evil, not a civil duty of our country. And if the law is an urgent evil, then surely you cannot accept that the civil duty of our country would be in the sense that it would give the right to be completely formal, but it can also be solemn, that even in the presence of witnesses, it can also be in the presence of the country - in the form of giving, working, not literally - "saints" and so on. Why? To prove to her that what we're going to do is a minimum that you're still taking in in bad will. That's too bad. A step could be done today much more - I would say, to the satisfaction of all and boldly, as it will actually be done. However, the debates that arise in this regard and the reactions of some colleagues and colleagues to these unacceptable debates reflect their views, their perceptions, their character, and their right to it, only to be imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Pavel Rupar, I will give you the word only if your words tend to calm your passion, in so far as I assess otherwise, I will take your word with the witness. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman. I hope they didn't take my statement personally. However, once again, I stress the impatience that arises from the amendments' proponents. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u69	You already said that, so I'll tell you. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u70	Just a little bit in fact we can't prescribe it. [[...]] [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u71	We continue the debate. Next on the list of applicants is a colleague of Potrata. She's not in the hall. We're moving on. On the list is Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman. Unlike the transitional debaters, I will follow the rules of procedure and speak only of the proposed amendment. The representatives and motioners of the amendment, Mrs Shirca and Mrs Potrata, and Mr Potrč, before me, presented and defended the validity of this amendment during their discussions, especially that the journey to the common life of two men or two women is not in the way that the law allows is sufficiently solemn. I don't know if they are and I don't know how they put themselves through the conclusion of their marriage, but I do know that ten years ago, when I was married, the celebration was primarily up to me and those I invited to the celebration. And I don't see anywhere in the law that any article or provision would prohibit partners, future partners, who would like to register their community, from being able to have a party with each other and having a celebration in a circle of friends. So I think that with these explanations, somehow there's a sense of the proposed amendment, and I'm not going to support it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you. It's a short notice. In view of the fact that none of the Members of the Liberal Democracy Club and the Group of Members of the United Nations or, I apologize, the Social Democrats are present at the plenary session, I am informing you that no one has informed me of the obstruction, so I will not take it as an obstruction. If I receive notice of the application of the rules of procedure on obstruction, I will interrupt the meeting and convene a college, given that the two members of the group, if they refer to it. Until then, we will continue the debate. Bogdan Barovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u74	I continue the debate in particular with Article 6 and the amendment to Article 6. I refer to the words that this amendment and the official registration of same-sex partners have nothing to do with the social categories. The amendment to Article 6 clearly legalises the same-sex community. This gives this community certain rights. So, he and he who is at home, I will think of someone who will not take me for a "crawler", and I will say from Sri Lanka, Bosnia, Croatia, France, on the basis of the accepted content of article 6 of the amendment, citizenship in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. Does this have anything to do with rights in the country? Of course he does. Secondly, two men or two women, with the official conclusion of a marriage, have much more opportunities under the legislation that exists in the Republic of Slovenia to get an apartment. And if I compare this to what I see as a mayor, that a woman who has two children come along and separates another baby on the way gets half the points because she has nowhere to be, no really, respected colleagues of the Social Democrats, no connection with the state of the Republic of Slovenia? Two men get married, get an apartment! Fine, and a subsidy with it! But a family where there's a conflict, not with four kids? This has nothing to do with it? If this has nothing to do with the amendment to Article 6, then I am an elephant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thanks for the debate. We're moving on. I invite my colleague Jerovska to the floor. Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to come in at all, but I was encouraged by Mr Potræ's statements, pointing to MPs or the ruling majority to see this law as an urgent evil, not a civil duty. It's just an increase in deliberate provocation of this side. These words "emergency evil" come from us. And this was all the time confused with the amendment to Article 6 which, as you rightly warned the President, has a completely different content. It went through and through for a total violation of the procedure which was committed there, from these benches yesterday, and called itself the mother of democracy, on behalf of the procedure today was a flagrant violation through and through the procedure and provoked Members. I am sure that the intention was to deliberately provoke someone from these parliamentary benches, so that on this basis there could be a demonstration leaving the bench, a press conference could be convened, which is probably already being done at this point. I'm afraid that won't work. I'm surprised it's not - through and through, they're talking about there's no responsible minister, because there's no chief of the opposition either, because he's not even in the budget or there's nothing here! Let them assemble the client! In fact, Mr President, I think that this deliberate provocation, and then leave the parliamentary bench immediately, is the agreement of the government coalition that it covers the whole thing as an "emergency evil", which is also offensive. I am very sorry that some Members then have a low concentration, even a sharper resource, even though we need to know that different Members understand differently and have a different way of reacting, but they do not mean any harm. And here I think it was the worst insult of all of us sitting here. Everything that comes out of our bench is necessarily bad, and I can't accept such provocation. I am very sorry that they have now done unannounced obstructions, that they are not even perceptive of any debate and that in this way, they are reacting only through press conferences. I think it's too much. This is not gonna work here. And I also call on customers who have triggered an unannounced obstruction to think about their reactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u77	Mr Jerovšek, I would advise you, well-intentionedly, that before you accuse a group of Members or a club of Members of Parliament of obstructing you to take a good look before this, if their Members are not really in the Chamber of the National Assembly. If you turn around, you will find several seats behind you Mr Petk, representative of the LDS Club of Parliament, so I consider part of your speech irrelevant. On the list of applicants, I only have one more debater, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Indeed, this debate may have taken us too far quickly. It is essentially that this law is essentially very politicized throughout the world. I also think and attach to those who say this is a relatively strong political tool for liberal political flows in efforts to discredit the right political forces and, of course, there is still a link between us, in saying, "Catholic Church" which seems to be working in this direction to prevent this from happening. In fact, these left - centered movements are not concerned about the same - sex partnership or individual, but are more or less about the actual abuse of the very sensitive human inner world of emotion and, perhaps, mental conflict. Usually these movements always leave at the end of a man alone, left to himself. As for the explanation and defence of Mr Potrč, who often teaches us what he writes and what he does not write in the constitution, and of course he knows this, he does speak Article 14 about equality before the law, but then Mr Potrč must also read Article 53, which speaks about marriage and family. There will, of course, be no violation of the principle of equality before the law under article 14, in nothing. In fact, he also said that he had read it in the European Constitution, but I doubt he read it correctly, because on one occasion he also claimed that he had read the Institute of Immunity in the European Constitution, and then we found that he did not know exactly what it said. There, too, the matter is otherwise resolved as he relates here in this national assembly, and perhaps I myself would suggest that this time, when it is not there, just take advantage of it and read carefully what it says in one and the other constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u79	Comrade Paula Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u80	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Majdi Shirci and Mrs Potrata apologize for the statement, although I do not apologize for the call to end the intransigence which is expressed on the committees and elsewhere by their performances. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u81	I believe those to whom the apology was intended heard that. But we will continue the meeting as scheduled. I hereby conclude the debate on Article 6 and move on to a vote. We will vote on the amendment of Ambassador Majda Shirtz and Mag. Majde Travel to Article 6. We're voting. There are 46 Members present, who voted in favour of 2 votes against 42. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving on. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of Ambassador Majda Shirca and Mag. Majde Potrat. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. We vote on the amendment of Ambassador Majda Shirca and Mag. Majde Travel to Article 7. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present; he voted in favour of 1, against 44. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of Ambassador Majda Shirca and Mag. Majde Potrat. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm sorry. Who wants a word? Comrade Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you. The explanation is unacceptable to the Slovenian National Party and is unacceptable to me. The amendment to Article 8 states, in explanation, that, for the legal consequences of the conclusion of the same-sex partnership in other legal areas, the issue has been presented, but it does say that the existence of the same-sex partnership registered under this law gives partners the same rights and obligations as those given to family members by laws governing health care, health insurance, health care, social protection, income, justice and unfair treatment and even the registration of residence. This is an absolutely unacceptable explanation and unacceptable content.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you. I give a word to the Member of the Kokal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The strategy for the development of Slovenia is based on a proportionate and sustainable development, although some of these concepts are not clear, but I think it is not difficult to understand that it is true for a strategy that wants to align the ambition of progress in our society with the naturalities - I would like to ask for peace in the Chamber - and not to disturb it gravely. However, sustainability also means a long-term perspective, which is linked at least to the indicative life span of one generation. In view of the proposed amendment, which seeks to align the situation of the same-sex partner community with the family community, I believe that such an amendment is in no way in line with the strategy I have been talking about, and I think that the work of the National Assembly in addressing all the legislation and everything we are doing must be in line with that spirit. The work of the National Assembly does not address such or other ideological views, but rather the search for a common nominee for those things that lead us to the goal that I have mentioned. For this reason, I believe that the legislation proposed has sufficiently governed the issue, which has been discussed for reasons other than the reasons for regulating the social emergency for almost a decade in our country. I therefore propose that this amendment should not be supported. The law itself, which is completely, as I said before, in fact, I think that the upper limit of what can happen at this moment is absolutely acceptable enough to resolve this situation. Dramatization of same-sex issues also has other sources. I think it would be very good for the Ombudsman to also prepare a study this time on the causes and criteria which in fact dictate the same sexual inclination. I am sure that there is almost no such phenomenon in relation to the natural characteristics of this phenomenon. But I am also faced with many provocative facts as a father. If we only read teenage literature in Slovenia, we see that our teens are actually on their way to such a tendency. At a time when children are looking for their basic human identity and also their sexual identity, I think it's a very questionable act. We also know that same-sex partnerships are often misused as some kind of identification for very narrow lobbying circles, which sometimes have a very strong impact on social events. I therefore believe that this subject should be addressed with extreme care and that very extreme solutions should be taken into account, and in particular in no way in the direction of equalising with certain naturalities, as I mentioned earlier, as suggested in this amendment, the practical alignment of the same-sex partnership with a natural one that has a thousand-year tradition, a family community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much. On the Committee on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, and today, it has been repeatedly expressed that gays and lesbians are our citizens, that they live and pay taxes here, and that they are not granted social, pension and similar rights as, say, husband and wife or spouses. In Slovenia there are many groups of people who work, who live, who pay taxes; who love someone, but perhaps in a different way, care for them. These are, for example, all unmarried persons, but they do not require special rights that belong to spouses, husbands, and wives. Values are not the same, they are the same. To decide for children, to have children, if you can, of course, and to care for and raise citizens, is a special value protected by the state. That is why I do not agree with the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you very much. So, I am a doctor by profession, and I regret that our position was not adopted in the drafting of the law to show at least one of the rights covered by this amendment, but to incorporate it. For example, I mean the right to care for a family member. On the contrary, if we wanted to enable this same-sex community, then it is unusual to oppose this right, that if someone is sick, that one cannot care for him for a few days and make him tea. And, of course, we knew in the coalition that it would not be possible to equalize rights, as do relatives in terms of the relatives of the marriage union, so we modestly expected that at least some rights of vital importance would not be taken into account. Now this right, which I am specifically talking about, is emerging within everyone else, but I cannot help and I think it should be in law, and for this reason I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u89	This concludes the debate. We're moving to the vote. Sir, I'm asking you to raise your hand this time. It's impossible for someone to just point a finger at you. I tried to close the debate for the third time, while you can't even raise your hand honestly. Let us be at least as correct, if not to me, for the entire national council to make an effort and clearly indicate who wants and when he wants to speak. I mean, who wants to talk? Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I really didn't wave much, but I did, and I understood that I gave Mr Žnidaršič an advantage as an elder. So, I think, too, that if this amendment and possibly the amendment to Article 6 which spoke of witnesses were to be adopted, then on the rights of such a community, then through these amendments, regardless of the title of this law, the registration of the same-sex community would really be equivalent to that of the legal community. And also the public opinion poll they did for this purpose, in which citizens and citizens asked whether they felt that the same sex partners should have the same rights as the same spouses, answered 51.4% of those polled that they did not, while some more than 38% felt that they should have the same rights. I think that the legislation of this proposed amendment would indeed mean the evaluation of the family as the basic cells of society and that is why such an amendment is unacceptable and, as has already been said, we will oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you. Member Capuder has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you. I do not support this amendment in particular for this reason, because it obviously equals the family and the same-sex partnership community, which I do not think is right for our society. The purpose of the company, as I have already said in my opening statement, is to protect the family, to enable the family to carry out its own functions after the end of its functions and therefore also to set certain or certain ratings for families, such as the maintenance of a family member, as it facilitates the payment of income and so on. I think it was the desire of the legislators who were preparing these laws in this area that it was particularly important for our society to stress the importance of the family. Such an equation, I don't think it's good and I don't want to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with my colleague Milan Petk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u94	So, I hope at the decision point, we're the presidents?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u95	At this point, the debate is still under way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u96	I'm out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u97	Then let's move on. My friend Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In order not to make it appear that there are only those among us who are believers and only those who are the guardians of the Slovenian family who are quite advertised, it is right for a person to say something. Personally, I have put a great deal of pressure on this social issue to be settled in a civilized, human way. This is a question between us, these people live among us, and we do not have the right to treat them like a foreigner. But in this title, we must also understand these people humanly. I think that certain matters could also be written in this article, not as the amendment proposes. In fact, from the life of two sisters together, we have many cases, and we live together for the rest of our lives. I don't know why a man wouldn't give them this chance that one of these sisters has the right to take care of another sister when she's sick. In this sense, we also look at these two people, these two people who live their lives as same-sex partners. We can't take this so hard. The company is complex. Life originated in this world from Adam and Eve, but this life also receives such changes and changes. I know that some of the rights in terms of property could be registered in the law, not just as this amendment stands. I won't support the amendment. But I do know that there's a bunch of condescending around here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u99	Mr. Franz Capuder has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have to respond to Mr Brenčič's implementation because I think that the law is written for same-sex partners because they intend to live an active sex life, a man and a man and a woman and a woman. But when we talk about sister communities, I think - I didn't understand it so much that this law would solve the sister community's problem, because then in a similar way we could say about all the communities living on the floor or the monks and the nuns and the monks.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u101	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u102	Just to clarify, one is sex, one is the life of this community, and the other is the other part of life, which is part of a life as we all live, so that I do not be misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u103	We continue the debate. The word is from a colleague of the Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I appreciate the thoughts of the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but I must say so, if there is a sincere desire to do something about mutual rights in the field of health care, then this amendment needs to be supported and given the opportunity to find a solution in the third reading, which may also be more agreed upon. If this is not done, then it will be accepted or rejected, if rejected, there will be no possibility. However, I would like to say that in relations with each other, irrespective of sex, two who live together permanently, the issue of the treatment and question of the rights they have, or the obligations they have with each other in the event of a disease, is one of the serious issues. This is also one of the serious humanitarian or human issues. The question of the relationship between people at this point, and I must say that I do not understand, really not that this must be a punishment, because it is an same-sex partnership, does not matter to each other on the basis of the same rights as it is to a family member. Why? I just don't understand, and I think it's really a kind of narrow-mindedness or a narrow-mindedness to look for cases where we have to make artificial distinctions. But this artificial distinction will indeed go to the detriment of this community and ultimately to the detriment of society as a whole, because if you have a sick person there who will not be cared for by anyone, then the State will have to worry about it sooner or later - because we do not want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u105	Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u106	I would like to respond to what Ambassador Ptrč has just said. I don't know where he got this idea that he shouldn't worry about each other. What does that come out of? What Mr Brenčič said earlier has nothing to do with this law. In this law we are talking about registration, it is said that if two people register, they will officially declare that they will live together. And then this law laws on what such a community can do or how it can function, how it can stop and how it can end, and 8th Article on the scope of rights and obligations, I will read it: "On the basis of the registration of the community, partners have the right to subsistence and subsistence, the right to acquire common property and to regulate the property situation within the community, the right to housing, the right to inherit the share of the common property after the deceased partner and the right to obtain information on the health status of the affected partner and to visit health institutions." It is said that at times of illness, they help one another; of course, there is no place in this marriage. Then there is another paragraph: "Partners in the community are obliged to respect each other, trust each other and help each other." It even says that you are obliged to help each other!It means that any meeting doubts that you should not help yourself, there is no spirit or hearing in this law. I think it's something that's really completely unproductive and something that's not so legal in this law. Unfortunately, Mr. Potch, that's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u107	First question, Mr. Potts, a replica or a debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u108	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u109	Then you will wait, before you, colleague Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your word. I will support the amendment to Article 8 because I am convinced that in my content it provides everything that the normal partnership is supposed to provide, whether they are same or different partners, a community that is based first and foremost on the emotional connections of the two partners and then everything else. I mean, I don't know why we keep forgetting that it's just a different relationship, the relationship between two people of the same sex. However, over and over again, even between husband and wife, before you decide to do so or before you decide to have children, you have to be emotionally attached, you have to love each other, and the same applies to same - sex partners. That is how it comes out then, not the desire, but the need or necessity, that long-term they may have all the rights guaranteed by partners in an extra-marital relationship. I've listened to someone before to talk about that within the marriage is the right to, I'll say, some mutual security, after the death of a partner, in the marriage itself If we just say that when it comes to marriage and one of the partners, one of the spouses, is sick, the other spouse has the right to have paid sick leave to take care of him. [[...]] In this respect, as set out here in the basic text of Article 8, this possibility does not exist, but when it comes to the emotional attachment between two people living in a community, whether registered or not, it cannot be ordered by law to respect each other, to help each other and to support each other. It's just a Larry Fari. The law cannot command that a man and a woman, it is said, are different sexes, understand each other in a marriage relationship and do not fight, that they are not harassed, that there is no violence in the family; the law sanctions it, but cannot command that they must love each other, that they must help each other, so that it is a mere floscule, what is the last paragraph of this article. There's something else I'd like to say right now. We've got one of them, and that belongs to this amendment, so please don't tell me I can't say this because you're letting me say amazing things today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u111	I don't see any reason why I wouldn't let you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u112	Because there will be something that has no direct connection, but I have a direct connection. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u114	"The Member is respectful in relation to others, having the same attitude towards all, regardless of race, nationality, sex, language, religion, political or other personal circumstances, respects equality, equality and accepts diversity. In relation to fellow Members and employees of the National Assembly, the Member shall come from their work and expertise, not from their religious, political and other definitions." Other definitions! Collegiate, respectful and solidarity! "The Member shall act at meetings of the national assembly, meetings of working bodies, meetings and other working meetings in such a way as not to disturb his colleagues and other participants, his colleagues and their statements or actions by maintaining a respectful relationship, in a genuine manner, and by safeguarding the integrity of the national assembly." I think I have said enough, and I think that today and today's debate on these amendments is talking about the fact that in this national assembly such a code of Members cannot be adopted because the conduct of some colleagues does not fall within this framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you. Let's go over the list of applicants. The word is from a colleague of the Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I would like to point out once again that I do not believe, not even Mr Sok, that he does not know that this law also regulates the content in addition to the title. And it is certainly true that we are not just talking about the registration of same-sex partnerships, but we are also talking about the content of the relationship on the basis of an address that does not even reflect the content. We probably all know that, and it's a shame to talk about it, but it's a good thing for the public to repeat itself, that no one would say that we're other fools because we don't know what the law says. The second is the issue of specific rights. But here we know, and it was already said, I just wanted to say it before it was about the content of justice right or in the case of illness. We give only the right to care for another person - whether he has the rights to do so under the law, and that is his family member. And that's what this is all about. And I think it would be right for us to give this opportunity. S, otherwise I do not claim to prohibit the law, Mr Sok, that it cannot help him. Of course he can, but he can help if he is not at work, he can help if he gives his regular summer vacation for this, and he can help him in the afternoon when he comes home from work. You say that's enough. That's exactly what I'm saying: it's not good to regulate the law in a way that says we can give a little bit, but not much. And in this part, the broadness of this national assembly would be much more understandable if it allowed such things to manifest a mutual relationship. And here I don't understand this narrowness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u117	Mr. Brenčič, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u118	I have a replica of my colleague Sok that won't look like you only know the content of the law, not the title of the law. That's simply not what you're saying, Mr. Sok. This law does not only govern registration, but that those to whom it is intended will also understand. This law does much more with its contents than just the administrative registration procedure. And we don't share these levits forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that it is not the best practice to teach those who have neither read nor the basic law, but some parallel literature. I will therefore read what others have written about these rights. That's the way it goes. [[Only one part]] : "The law gives the partner a certain right in the case of another partner's disease, but does not grant the partner the status of a lower family member, which is essential for the equal position of the partner in relation to other relatives of the partner, and for the exercise of basic health and health insurance rights under the Health Insurance Act." And so he has no right to a hospital for the care of a partner, and they have no other right. They do not have the right to rent credit as a couple, they do not have the right to an income allowance as a couple, they do not have the right to compensation for a separate life. Let's just imagine that one of those would be, like, a member of our national council, and he would be the only one among us who wouldn't get a refund.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you. For the time being, Vice President Vasja Klavora is the last on the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u122	Mr. Vice President, it's been a while since I raised my hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u123	Believe me, you've been on the list since you picked it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u124	Good. I listened calmly to this discussion all the time, even when I went out, I listened in the office ahead. First of all, I would say that I'm a little surprised by the rather low level of this debate in terms of terminology itself. If we get to the table the time to discuss the same-sex people or partners, not gays, not gays - I forgive those words that I have just said, but they are not mine - then it would be right for us to use at least as much terminology as is right in this national assembly. I'd like to warn you of the following. I am very pleased that the government and the Ministry have prepared this law. I'm going to support the marriage, even though I had a few concerns about these amendments. Above all, the concerns, not the first time we found out what the registration should be and so on, I think that this is all still parallel and perhaps even at the first stage marginally, but this article that we are currently discussing. I would like to warn you as a doctor and as a Member that we are still discussing people, and be aware of that. About people and not about some sentences that are written here that we don't want to understand. We are discussing people I have met for more than 40 years in my profession night and day, in difficult situations, in severe diseases and in countless deaths. Too often, too, those who needed care in the event of a serious illness or dying had no one with them, even though their families were brilliant in all respects. But he was alone and lonely. And from all that I'm telling you right now - and this has hurt me a little bit, I'm not answering every day - I said I would like to remind you that we're discussing people. And if colleague Žnidaršič said that as a doctor he cannot go past this amendment, where he confesses to his partner - if we have recognised the law, if we have recognised the registration, then let these people help each other in the way that honest people help each other. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you. Can I close the debate now? I conclude the debate and move to a vote. My friend Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u126	You've probably all figured out why I'm actually the only one from Liberal Democracy here. In accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I request, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group, a 45-minute suspension for consultations in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u127	If you'll excuse me, I'll grant you your application under Article 73. Before that, I ask, since this will be the last activity I will make before the vote, what reasons are there for this vote that they will not then be against the misunderstandings on this matter? [[No, no, ……]] Then I interrupt the session until 1:25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u128	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our adjourned session. Since the representative of the Liberal Democracy has requested a recess, I ask him if he wants a word. Dr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the time of the offending appearance of Mr Paul Rupar, Vice-President Saš Pečet, I have since asked him to take certain measures to provide an apology or other measures that are possible under the Rules of Procedure. These measures have not been implemented. Mr Vice-President, who was then in charge, did not apply the provisions of Rules of Procedure from 75 to 80 - specifically, did not apply Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure - which require and direct the sanctioning of Members in such cases. Nor did the President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukjat, nor did the colleges, because he was not present. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia obstructs this point. At the same time, I must stress what has been foretold that we all feel that this meeting is falling apart, that this meeting is still on the verge of sustainability and legality, that legitimacy has long been lost; that the points are changing here and there, that they are not ready for this to happen for the first time in this mandate, and that we are all watching what we are actually doing and how we are doing. Therefore, once again, the LDS predicts obstruction. We believe that this path is not good for this national assembly, as it is, and for the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you, Dr. Gantar. As part of my leadership myself, I must publicly express my dissatisfaction and my resentment at the insults and manner in which this esteemed congregation is headed, which does not belong in the parking lot, let alone in this hall. Mr Pece did not use the business opportunity of the Presidency to draw the attention of his colleague Rupar. And, dear colleagues, in such circumstances, I cannot and do not wish to continue to hold a meeting. I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u131	Ladies and gentlemen. We're continuing our session. Unfortunately, there's been an unexpected interruption. As I am informed, we are voting on the amendment to Article 8. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u132	Mr. President. I do not wish to be rude or contrary to the rules of procedure, but it seems to me that if one of your vice-presidents interrupts the meeting with the conclusions that have been made, it would be wise to convene a college and to consult at the college.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u133	I think it's my business and the vice presidents. We think we're going to have to agree on some of the vice presidents' actions, but that's within our narrow circle. This is our problem, Mr Potrč, the problem of our vice-presidents and, of course, next week we will have a meeting in this sense. I don't think we need to interrupt. If you'd like, may I put your proposal to the vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u134	I just think it's a college, not just for the vice presidents. I'll be grateful if you put him to the vote, even more so if it happens to be adopted, but I don't have that hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u135	You heard the proposal. Please make it more precise. How long do you want to suspend the session?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u136	Mr President, I will not repeat the proposal. If you want, I would like you to put to the vote a proposal to convene a college. This is your right. If you don't give, you won't give, I don't need any rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u137	As long as we call a college on every fly of vice-presidents, we will never end this meeting. We continue with the meeting and put to the vote the amendment to Article 8. This is the proposal of the amendment prepared by the parliamentary group or group of Members with the first signed by Shirca Majda. We're voting. Please be careful about the presence and the card insertions. Please, Mr. Tanko, if you pull my card. We will vote again on the amendment. We're voting. Votes are running. We'll re-vote at 1:45. I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u138	I ask Members and Members to take their seats. We continue the meeting and move on to the third vote on the amendment proposal to Article 8. We're voting. Do you request a re-voting?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u139	Please, Mr President, if we could repeat the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u140	As requested, I'm obliged to call the technical service and abort in five minutes. Such is the agreement to call the technical service as soon as it is found out that it is not working. If he works, then there is no re-voting. I don't think things change the facts, either. There are 57 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 43. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the amendment to Article 21. The first-signed group of Members, Ms Majdo Shirca, proposes to delete the article. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u141	The amendment to Article 21 is linked to decisions or solutions in previous articles, because if amendments were adopted to regulate the status of the owner in such a way that the person having this status could also enjoy all the rights and obligations arising from such status, then the deletion of Article 21 would be useful. Indeed, Article 21 is, as it is now written, an improved text of the original proposal. Some of the things discussed in the debate on Article 8 have not yet been implemented, so we have not withdrawn this amendment and it has been tabled. However, as it is said, the non-admission of the amendment to Article 8 made the draft law somewhat difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Article 21 complements what we discussed in the previous debate and, of course, we cannot support this amendment, because this amendment says that Article 21 is deleted. Article 21 speaks of disease rights. So if this article were deleted, then what some colleagues said in the previous debate would really happen is that this law does not allow the partner to be informed of the illness of another partner. This article even goes so far as to make decisions on the treatment of the partner. For this reason, it is not in any way considered to support this amendment in Novi Slovenije. And we don't understand at all why the motions for this amendment do not withdraw, why we are discussing this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. That's all I'd say is that everything shows that we really don't know how to read what it says, what a colleague said before. If the amendment to Article 8 were adopted, then of course Article 21 is unnecessary. The fact is, these two amendments are linked. So if the first amendment has not been adopted, then the second amendment makes no sense. [[Back-up advertising.]] We can't withdraw him because he has the signatures of people who aren't here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Indeed, the initial proposal of the law was so laid down that the status of the spouse was not recognised to the partners in the same-sex partnership. Nevertheless, I must say that there is a law in the procedure in which the partner in the registered partnership has the status of his own right not to say even a family member. I am talking about the law on RTV, where a registered partner cannot become a member of the professional council of RTV because he is classified as family members. Thus, this government or those who bring laws into the legislative process do not have a fully harmonised position when they make laws. It's like that in one marriage, it's not in the other. In particular, I stressed that the original article 21 had been written down differently and that the partner had only the right to visit, he had only the right to receive health information. At a meeting of the Committee on Work, Family and Social Affairs, we adopted an amendment that went towards a solution to allow someone who lives with someone who knows him well to have an impact on the course of treatment, as it is based on life experience that often the same-sex orientation of his family member is not accepted well-intentioned or he cannot face it, and then he is not willing to side with it in the event of treatment. That is why it is so important that this option of deciding on the course of treatment is also maintained and I agree, Mr Sok, with you that now that Article 8 has not been amended, this solution is in Article 21 at least as regards the course of treatment, as I would say, an emergency exit. There is one solution, but it does not cover all that has already been discussed in connection with Article 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss it? If not, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendment first signed by Majde Shirce to Article 21. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present; he voted in favour of 1, against 44. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the amendment to Article 22. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 22. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 54 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 42. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the amendments to Article 23. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. We turn to the vote on the first amendment to article 23, proposed by the Group of Members with the first signed Shirca Majda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 54 Members and Members present, for whom he voted 10 to 42. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 23 proposed by the SDS and DeSUS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 23 has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the amendment to Article 25. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Article 25 differs from that of the amended proposal to regulate the termination of the same-sex partnership. The fact is that in the complementary proposal the original solution has been improved, as was the original one, and this is still left to it, finding that such a community has ceased to be the administrative body. We believe that, like in the case of other community discontinuances, it would be when it comes to things that have property consequences and other consequences, but it is a matter left to the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 9 votes in favour and 41 votes in favour. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 41.]] This concludes this agenda item. Since less than three amendments or amendments to three articles have been adopted, I give the floor to the bill's proposer and please whether he has any comments on coordination.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Government does not have any comments on coordination, but I would like to stress in particular that the proposed amendments, which were not adopted today, sought, in substance, the equality of the same partnership with the marriage community. As has already been mentioned several times today, this proposal for a law on the legal regulation of a specific living community, which cannot be identified with the legal community. The Government, taking into account the family resulting from Article 2 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which defines the family as a community of parents and children, enjoys special protection for the benefit of the family. I would also like to mention that, already in 2003, a constitutional initiative was put before the Constitutional Court by a representative of a non-governmental organisation in relation to Articles 3 and 16 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, concerning the equality of marriage and the same-sex partnership, but the Constitutional Court has not yet decided. Therefore, the proposal for a law could not take into account the equivalence of the marriage relationship with the same sex partnership. We believe that the proposal makes it possible and gives all the rights and obligations of partners that allow for the normal functioning of the partnership between the two adults of the same sex.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you. At the same time, I apologize for skipping the last phase. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, that is to say one article, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. That's what we have to decide. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to hold a third hearing at this meeting. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 10. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. On Wednesday, 22.6.2005, after the end of the last item of the agenda of this meeting, the National Assembly will hold a third reading of the draft law. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed on Tuesday at 12.00 p.m. At the same time, I inform you that at 2.35 p.m., we will continue to hold an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will address the budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. So, we continue our extraordinary session five minutes in half three, at 2.35 p.m. Thank you.
