ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the continuation of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Aleš Gulič from 12 noon onwards, Saša Pece, Jakob Presečnik until 17:00, Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving to 2. This is in line with the demands of the Group of Members that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the National Assembly to propose a law on amendments and amendments to the Social Security Act, EPA 355/IV, to be adopted in accordance with the ordinary procedure. At its meeting on 15.7.2005, the College of Presidents decided that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Protection Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after a reduced procedure should be considered on a regular basis. During the five-day business period, the 27-member group, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure, the College decide on the decision of the national assembly. With regard to the College's decision to deal with that bill on a regular basis, I give the floor to the representatives of the applicants of the request. If there is no wish to present, then I find that there is no debate on this request, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the proposal of the Group of Members in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.50 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Point of the agenda - This is a second-hand proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxis. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Fees, which is before you today, is prepared due to changes in the various areas of substantive legislation which set out the content of administrative acts and documents for which this law provides for administrative fees such as: the Regulation on Administrative Operations, the Land Book Act, the Law on State Border Control, the Law on Economic Companies, the Law on State Border Control, the Law on Explosives, the Law on Industrial Property, the Law on Parental Protection and others. The main solutions to the law are as follows. The amendment of the law also allows for the possibility of payment by modern payment means, which is also covered by the adopted Regulation on administrative management. The second solution provided for by the law is that, by supplementing Article 28 as a sole entrepreneur, an individual is provided for the exemption of payment for documents and actions for registration, registration of documents, data and registration of the termination of the individual’s business activity in the business register of Slovenia. In addition, Article 28 will provide for the exemption of time limits for documents and actions for applications for entry or deletion from mandatory databases collected on the basis of the rules governing agriculture, wine and other products of grapes and wine, veterinary, livestock, marine fisheries, seed material of agricultural plants, plant health and provisions or certificates from mandatory databases. In addition, a new tariff number, 4A, will be applied to the regular extract from the electronic land book by amending and supplementing it. This supplement will provide the legal basis for the administrative authorities to charge an administrative fee for the regular extract from the electronic land register. At the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy, all amendments proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly were supported. The amendment by the first-signed Mr Ptræm was not adopted. The amendment of the Social Democrats Group in question is once again tabled and the government opposes it, so we propose that the National Assembly support the draft law, as adopted on the working body, without the support of the amendments of the parliamentary group with the first-signed Mr Ptrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr Špiletic, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u4	I say hello to everything! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. At its 7th meeting, on 6.9.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on administrative fees submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance. The Committee was also given the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and the amendment of the Group of Members by the first signed Merani Potrče of 29.6.2005 to Article 2 of the Act. The Committee was attended by a representative and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service. In the introductory, complementary explanation of the member, the representative of the Government pointed out that the proposed legal solutions did not constitute major changes to the law in force and followed by amendments and additions to the substantive rules setting out the content of administrative acts and documents for which the law then sets the level of administrative fees. In particular, one of the purposes of the proposed law was to try to establish a more friendly relationship with independent entrepreneurs, individuals who would be exempt from the fees for documents and actions relating to entries in the business register of Slovenia. With such a proposed solution, the government also follows the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and representatives of civil society from the types of entrepreneurs. Then we also discussed the amendment with the first-signed Mirano Ptrče. On the basis of this amendment, in addition to the documents and acts of exempt fees as referred to in Article 28 of the current law, such exemptions would also be subject to documents and acts relating to the registration of rental contracts or apartment annexes and to the registration and deletion of rental contracts or annexes from the register of rental contracts and to the acquisition of non-profit dwellings provided for in the invitation to tender for rent to applicants who are not liable for payment of their own participation and security in respect of the social situation. After further consideration and also discussion, after which an opinion was given by the Ministry of Finance that this issue was sufficiently well defined in Article 25 of the current law in relation to Article 13, paragraph 28, of the same law, which provides that documents and acts for the enforcement of social security rights to be exempt from fees provide a sufficiently broad legal basis for such exemption and thereby enforce the rights to which the amendment applies. The representative of the government also stressed in the debate that the provisions of the Law on Administrative Fees are in force in the event that they are not actually implemented, further consideration is given. The government will examine them and implement them in the same way as was originally planned in the legislative provisions. After that, the Finance Committee adopted all the amendments to the Committee, except the amendment which I mentioned earlier and all the articles of the law, which it also proposes to adopt to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Starman. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u6	Mr President, Members and Members of the Government. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the law amending the Law on Administrative Fees for two reasons, because it introduces support and enforcement of modern payment funds and gives support to entrepreneurship in Slovenia. However, I would like to stress in particular that we will also support the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, which were first presented and unfortunately not accepted on the working body and which I hope we will support today in this consideration. I must say that I am surprised that the government representative has just said that the government is proposing to the National Assembly that it adopts the law only as it was adopted by its mother's labour force, and that the government is saying again today that it does not endorse the amendments which, in fact, in the Law on Administrative Fees, only wants to meet the objectives set by the same government in one of its programmes. These objectives, among other things, are to increase fertility and so on. We are surprised at this in particular in the Liberal Democracy because this was said by the representative of the Ministry of Finance, who sent the law to the government procedure on Friday, which speaks of the fact that, irrespective of the fact that all the other Slovenians are paying interest on the assets we have, which we have obtained either through profits or otherwise, the only exception will be the interest they have received through bonds to denationalising beneficiaries. So, on the one hand, we have a government or the Ministry of Finance - because the government has not yet accepted this, and the National Assembly has not yet accepted it - which says: we will give more to the rich, but to those who have problems with registering leases, to those who have problems with obtaining non-profit apartments, to those who, of course, could be exempt from all administrative fees in emergency relief procedures and, on the other hand, to those who are the Government of the Republic of Slovenia through the words of the representative of the Ministry of Finance, here it says, and we will not forgive them in the law of administrative fees of these duties. We believe that this duality of government, which is not appropriate, is why I am not surprised that both the Government's representative and the representative of the labour force have spoken of the signature of the amendments with the first-signed Mr Mirano Ptræ. No! No! It is the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group of Members and, in fact, the only social democrats we have in this National Assembly, because, of course, the Social Democracy of Slovenia with the proposals of the laws it proposes, and by not supporting amendments to address the social problems of those most at risk, it is not the Social Democracy of Slovenia, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u7	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u8	But, of course, I'll suggest it if it's accepted. [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] also tax legislation to rename yourself as a Republican party. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. I give the floor to Mr Janko Weber, who will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a good day on behalf of the Social Democrats. Proposal for amendments and additions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u11	I'm asking for peace. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u12	The law on administrative fees already states in its introduction that the fundamental objective of the amendment proposal and the addition is to achieve greater uniformity between the different legal provisions. [[...]] Thus, this amendment of the law touches on the law on land books, the law on explosives, the law on industrial owners, parental protection, the law on wine; in short, a whole series of regulations that have been adopted in the last period. Here we miss the housing area, which has also been amended by the adoption of the new law, but let us not see that the amendment and the addition of the administrative fees law follow the housing law and try to regulate and harmonise this regulation in the procedures for issuing administrative fees. Therefore, our proposal is that the amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Fees should also be subject to the House Act. What's this all about? One of the areas governed by housing law is the establishment of housing funds and the establishment of public housing funds on the basis of the law on public funds and also the regulations of housing law. In this way, they transferred the exercise of their original powers to public housing funds and, of course, they should also follow the legal obligations regarding the exemption of administrative fees. The current law on administrative fees itself refers to the fact that the state and the municipality are exempt from administrative fees, but it is not to say that housing funds can also be exempt from administrative fees. In order to solve specific problems and problems, and not least to solve housing problems, we are in practice faced with the issue of documents relating to the registration of rental contracts or apartment annexes and the entry or deletion of rental contracts or annexes from the register of rental contracts. This provision in the current Law on Administrative Fees will not be observed anywhere that it has already been taken into account or anything like that. The following proposal, documents and actions in the process of obtaining non-profit dwellings, which are envisaged by a call for tender for rent to applicants who, in view of the social situation, are not liable to pay their own participation and security. This point is also not recorded anywhere in the Administrative Fees Act. In addition, documents and actions under the temporary authorisation procedure for the use of emergency assistance in the use of the apartment or the transfer of the tenant to another apartment in the event that exceptional circumstances indicate a long-term inability to pay the rent and other costs paid in addition to the rent. Let me remind you that in Slovenia we also had a very difficult situation with regard to natural disasters, and in the procedures to be followed with regard to assistance in the use of the apartment or the relocation of the tenant, we also burden such applicants with administrative fees. And the current laws and this amendment do not solve this problem. We therefore propose that this point be further classified as a point for which no administrative fee is paid. Finally, the documents and actions for the exercise of the right to subsidised rent. Perhaps it can really be seen in this law that it is already the legal basis for not paying the rent subsidy fee, but, nevertheless, I think it is not, and we are convinced in the Social Democrats' Group that we can very quietly write down this provision in the Law on Administrative Fees, that payments of administrative fees are exempt those who exercise the right to subsidise the rent. We believe that such an amended law would really draw close to its basic objective, which has also been set out in the applicant's introductory explanation, and I propose that you accept these additions, which we have forwarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, honourable President of Parliament. Representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! The New Slovenia Group supports amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Fees and also supports all amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The Administrative Fees Act regulates the payment of administrative fees to administrative authorities and public authorities in administrative and other public law matters. The proposed amendments to the law aim to achieve greater uniformity between the different regulations, both the Land Book Act, the State Border Control Act, the Explosives Act, the Industrial Property Act and some other laws. Some of the new fees are newly introduced due to the changed conditions of the internal and external market following Slovenia's entry into the EU. The amendment of the law is also necessary in order to simplify the payment of administrative fees by electronic money, this is possible and prescribed by law regardless of what payment is paid under the tax rate. The legislator also takes a step in time, as he also introduces the electronic form of the land book. The proposed changes are undoubtedly a new contribution to a more favourable public administration for citizens, as they bring numerous exemptions, some reductions, alignment with real costs and also some new charges related to Slovenia's entry into the European Union. In our view, it is very important that independent entrepreneurs are exempt from administrative fees for entry and removal from the business register. It is also important that tax data collected from agriculture for entry or removal from mandatory databases are exempt. In addition to the above, legal fees are exempt from documents relating to parental protection insurance, decisions deciding on rights within the procedure for a certificate of finality and a certificate of legality, a visa for a diplomatic passport and the renewal of registration in the register of representatives in the field of intellectual property rights. An electronic extract from the Land Book is reduced and an increase in the performance of the professional examination and examination for a patent representative or representative for models and brands. It must be said that these representatives and these professional examinations are very few, so this does not significantly affect, this is in line with the costs alone, because these exams and the scope of these examinations are significantly more difficult than they were at the beginning. In short, the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees, together with the amendments of the Home Committee, because we believe it is good and will contribute to better public administration. Perhaps it would be added that we do not agree with the SD amendments, which I expect to have a slightly more debate later on when we consider the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Testen. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, government representatives. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Administrative Fees Act in second reading for two simple reasons - that I will be brief - it is a solution that introduces a new way of paying, as previous colleagues have already mentioned. Secondly, it is a more friendly relationship between the state and its citizens in various administrative procedures, so that certain official records maintained by the public authorities will not need to be paid administrative fees in the future. And we welcome the way in which the government has proposed these amendments to the law, and we propose to the Government to examine the whole law on administrative fees and possibly the problem that has arisen when this law on changes and additions to the law on administrative fees, as well as the issues that arise in everyday life, and possibly prepare a comprehensive amendment and supplementation of the law on administrative fees. And since there may also be some other things that may not have been exposed at this time, they are problematic due to high administrative fees in the administrative procedures of the public authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we will not oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Fees. The bill offers new options according to the modern mode of payment and, of course, indirectly offers assistance to entrepreneurs as well. Nevertheless, I would ask all those who may already have views on the amendment to the draft law tabled by the first-signed Mr Miran Potrč to consider their opposition. That amendment is good. He's good, that's what the mayors need to know. I must tell you in this position my own experience, when we have received from the official government services a written instruction, a request that those applicants - in particular, I am talking about points 31 and 32 in this amendment, which is or may be an integral part of the law - that everyone, including those who apply for non-profit apartments, must pay taxes, after it happened that 40 or more applicants were rejected - still had to pay a fee. When we complained about government services or asked for an interpretation, we received an answer: not a dick or a mouse. You have to pay a cab, you don't have to pay a tax, we think we should pay a cab, we think it doesn't matter if they don't pay it. It's called domestic disorder. And this mess has obviously been established, at least after I have the data, even on the parental board. For points 31 and 32 of this amendment, I propose, colleagues and colleagues, let us think together and think smartly and make some order. And I think that the proposed order in these points is good enough, well enough designed and that it has no financial implications. In fact, this moment is at least in this area, i.e. in the area of paying taxes for non-profit dwellings and in some social segments - in fact, from practice I assure you - of disorder. And whatever you do, someone can convict you of working contrary to such or other laws, even if you prove with paper that it's not even a government service that doesn't matter who, before, doesn't know what to do. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the amendment and also propose that this amendment be worth a little more debate and a little more attention. So once again, I ask everyone to think about life and not at least think politically about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, everybody! Administrative procedures and administrative acts cause certain costs and the government has decided to propose some changes in this area. It is a matter of changes that we will probably all support, whether it is a different way of paying, a different way of paying, whether it is a matter of leaving certain obligations or introducing new payments for individual services. In the DeSUS Group, we agree to support this law because it primarily has positive effects for users, both for individuals and for certain economic operators. But there are some things we'd like to point out. It is also a matter of judging that the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats must be supported for a very simple reason, because some of the proposed exemptions are already being implemented - so no fee is being paid for the acquisition of a non-profit apartment, as is not paid for the non-profit flat subsidy, as is not paid for some exceptional aid, but the registration of contracts with administrative units is being paid. However, it is wrong to declare this as a social measure, as this payment is paid by the owners and not by the social or non-profit beneficiaries. We therefore consider that, should this be supported, the government's representatives on the committee have also said so, and the report states that this is duplication in individual areas. But if, in practice, such services are to be charged, they should not be charged, then there is nothing wrong with setting clear limits to what is and what is not to be charged with taxes in this administrative tax law. However, at least it would be appropriate to exempt the owners of flats to pay the tax, because it is some kind of profitable activity, as we forgive individual agricultural or other economic operators, p.p. in this proposal for their activities. But there are some other things we'd like to point out. First, very briefly, perhaps it is not best to leave the fees for complaints, it is just an additional stimulus that complaints, including unjustifiable ones, can be made even more. We believe that higher evaluation services could also be provided to obtain location information in the area of construction of buildings. We also consider that there could be slightly higher points for paying a tax on explosives training, and we are convinced that the wrong ratio of dividing the tax between the State and the municipalities, as these procedures and costs lead and bear the municipalities, while the division ratio is 70:30 in favour of the State. Perhaps another marriage will be a real opportunity to change that relationship. What we will be able to change, perhaps already in the case of the law on the financing of municipalities, when we deal with it in one day, is also the possibility of saying that it is a mistake, that these fees, which have reimbursed the costs, are charged to the municipalities in an appropriate way to reduce their financial compensation - to those who, of course, have financial compensation. And last but not least, we don't have a security guard to pay a tax on some abuses. Indeed, some employees of individual companies may obtain information through company orders, in particular location information, which is in fact their personal wishes or their personal interests. We do not have an insight into this; we do not have the opportunity to verify that those roles are indeed a role for the benefit of the company or individual member of that company. The Group of Members will therefore support, DeSUS, this law will be supported, and we also support the intention of the amendment of the Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support those amendments to the Tax Law, as well as the amendments adopted by the Committee. I would not repeat it, but there is a reason why we will support it, especially because the law wants to achieve greater uniformity between the different legal rules. Furthermore, it introduces some of the new developments that are also urgently needed in our tax law. Above all, it is a matter of amending Article 8 of the Law, allowing payment to be made by modern means of payment. Supplement 1a in Article 28a will provide for an individual to be exempted from the registration and amendment of the business registers of Slovenia and from the business register of Slovenia. A new 29 point will provide for an exemption for the application, entry or deletion from mandatory databases on the basis of the rules governing agriculture, wine and other products of grapes and wine, veterinary, livestock, marine fisheries, seeds of agricultural plants and plant health, and decisions or reports from mandatory databases. A new tariff number 4a will also be applied by amending and supplementing. for a copy of the electronic land book. This supplement will provide the legal basis for the administrative authorities to charge an administrative fee as an extract from the electronic land book. We welcome the news that they also need to find legal bases to properly charge. It should also be mentioned that in some cases exemptions are also established and defined when the fee is not paid. For example, I would like to mention that the visa for a diplomatic passport is free. By supplementing and amending tariff number 66, the administrative fee for a transfer right certificate and a certificate from the register of rights whose payment obligation is based on the Industrial Property Act shall be re-set. We have also debated and tried to define ourselves until the amendment of the Social Democrats to the proposed law. In principle, we support the fact that in cases of social distress, taxis are exempt in the case of housing traffic, but we think and believe that the interpretation of the government on the committee, that this is properly regulated, that it is possible not to be implemented, we think that it is unnecessary for this amendment to be adopted further and therefore we do not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Starman. We have completed the presentation of the views of the members of the groups and are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the amendment review of 23.9.2005. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Mr. Weber, Mrs. Pecanova, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I would like to further substantiate the amendment we tabled in the Administrative Fees Act. We note that the third point of Article 28 already speaks of the fact that the files and actions in the process of obtaining evidence of poor property conditions as a basis for the recognition of such exemption are clearly a procedure that is appropriate and you need it in order to then enforce such an exemption on individual segments or issues governed by an individual law. We note that it is also necessary to specify the housing area in the Law on Administrative Fees. The housing area is not listed in this list, and our amendment introduces this. On the basis of the certificates you can obtain for the recognition of such an exemption, of course, on the basis of this certificate, you apply such exemption also on the issues referred to in our amendment relating to the housing area. This is mainly the case for points 31, 32 and 33 when we are talking about a procedure for obtaining a non-profit apartment, then for the temporary approval of exceptional aid in the use of the apartment or the transfer of the tenant to another apartment and for documents where you claim the right to subsidise the rent. We cannot, I will say, follow the assertions that everything is already agreed and resolved with a point that speaks about it, the files and actions for the enforcement of social protection rights. In so far as this Article 13 point 28 applies to all other areas, then even a number of such beneficiaries should be exempt and it should be said that this is already a general solution for all and it does not need to be defined more precisely any other procedure or file for which it is entitled to pay a fee. For comparison only, I can point out that it is already in this article that it reads "the writings and actions relating to the exercise of family benefits rights". This could also be considered to be a social protection right and should not be further written in this Article. Therefore, I explicitly stress that the provisions of the Housing Law are missing and it is much clearer and easier to carry out procedures if these are very clearly written as an area for which administrative fees are exempt, and we propose that for all these four points, which are listed here, the National Assembly decides that this should also be recorded in the Administrative Fees Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you very much for a good and good day to all fellow Members and, of course, to Mr President. I would also like to explain from my point of view why I believe that this amendment needs to be adopted, and I also ask my fellow Members and Members to consider that this is not a particularly significant reduction in the revenue of either the country or the municipality. It is necessary to know that these fees are administrative fees in one way or another and that, in the event that the administrative fee for the application for the grant of an apartment for which the applicant is entitled to a subsidy is exempt, it is said to be received from the municipal budget later on, if the apartment receives it, also from the subsidy for the payment of the rent for that apartment. It is pointless that this same municipality, which will provide funding for the subsidisation of these rents after years and years in the budget, is because people who are not financially able to pay full non-profit rents, are at the same time asking such an applicant to pay an administrative fee when he is applying for a non-profit flat, which we once called a social apartment. I think that now the rent subsidies are so high, so high that many people who have not actually been able to apply for a non-profit apartment can now come to this, we can really give them an exemption from the administrative fee, at least so that they can also make an application when the invitation to tender in a particular congregation. I believe that, with such a move, we will also say, we are dispeling some of the problems that are emerging, we have experience, we have recently had one such invitation to tender with the actual cost of paying the administrative fee and also the costs of the procedure itself, because it is usually combined, which is quite high and many of the applicants have great difficulties in collecting these funds. I suggest we accept this amendment, however. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! With regard to the amendment tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, and in particular with regard to their explanation, I would like to say that the inappropriate comparison of the administrative fee between independent entrepreneurs, the entry into this register and the current law abolishes and the payment of the fee for the registration of leases. Even more so, I find it inconceivable that this will lead to more owners choosing to register leases. I can now ask myself what the relevant inspection services are actually doing in this regard, and I feel that this argument does not hold back. The other thing is, we all know the height of these rents. And in New Slovenia or I will not support this proposal. With regard to payment of own participation and security. We have heard a lot of things, but we know that congregations, local communities, are determined by housing law or by the rule of censorship, or that this height is not linear, and in fact it could happen that someone who is entitled to be forgiven is their own participation, and one who will pay for a few tolars of differences. And then someone's gonna pay the cab, and someone's not gonna pay. I think the solution is in order right now. As regards the subsidisation of the rent, the local communities should be charged a fee in respect of applications for subsidies, as this is resolved in Article 13, paragraph 28, of the Law on Administrative Fees. Here we also got an interpretation of all local communities and I am surprised that some are charging and some are not charging. In fact, the local communities received this in March of this year. The second thing that surprises me, what was said earlier, is exactly what I said earlier, about paying my own participation and bail, that there are no administrative fees. Given the current law, an administrative fee is paid here, which is - I think one of them said earlier that this local community is not charged. And another explanation. This administrative fee is in the appropriate consumption of local communities, so that it is charged within the appropriate spending and, in fact, whether these fees will be higher or less, depending on the financial compensation by the Ministry of Finance. I will not support the amendment alone and we will not support the amendment in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I've already said that we're going to support this amendment. We will support this amendment as well as others, especially because of the fact that they want to do in a similar way as you suggest with entrepreneurs, in fact to do what we will do in the area of rental contracts in the area of housing management, which will soon be normal practice in Slovenia. And normal practice will be that, no more than 90% of families with their own apartments, but, above all, younger families will live largely in rented apartments. And those who have done little with renting know that today's administrative fee is about half a month's subsidy, which we give to students to make it easier for them to get apartments with private people in Ljubljana. Of course, from this point of view it makes sense in the Law on Administrative Fees if the government has decided to support this in order to do so for independent entrepreneurs, to do the same for the registration of rental contracts, apartment annexes. This is not only a question that the country needs to do so because of information on this, because of public interest, but mainly that we will gradually get into a situation in Slovenia in the residential area when we have suppliers, builders of apartments to broadcast, and when you want to normalise it, then you need to simplify the procedures at all. And of course, these procedures also include whether or not administrative fees will be paid. And just think about what was said before, because then we'll be in the future. The same applies to others of these amendments. These amendments - or other articles - only tell you that if we really want to achieve what is good in Slovenia, some have even written this in their coalition contract, then we will take steps to solve the housing problem, not only in terms of buying an apartment, but in terms of providing legal rental as much as possible. That is why we support, of course, the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Anyone else? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much. With all the arguments put forward, I would once again ask for the attention and support of the amendment. Where there is ambiguity, and we have already sent questions to the Minister of the Environment months ago, a space which has also worked with the Ministry of Finance, and very different views have been explained to the effect that they should be interpreted differently in practice. In short, there is a lack of clarity about the social situation associated with housing. And in these cases, when it comes to confusion, I think it is better to regulate this possibility in this law, not to expect that some congregations will be governed in one way or another. As far as the leases are concerned. Look, we've come from the logic that in the case of leases and fees, in any case, the renter will pass the fee on to the renter and will be paid by the renter and will thus be higher. And secondly, when we have - I agree that there would be a better order and where the inspection services are, let's just be honest with ourselves, as we sometimes say, how much do we really hope to guarantee that the leases are declared and that the taxes are paid. We probably all know that relatively little and that the exemption of this fee would also be a stimulus in order to create the necessary order in this area and ensure that these leases are recorded. In this respect, we also think that the proposal is appropriate, and we expect you to consider it and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Run. Here you go, Mrs. Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I would just like to confirm what my fellow Member has already stated that I cannot support the amendment, but above all I think it's kind of illogical last statement by the proposer, if we don't vote on your amendment, we're going to push the amount of the fee into the framework and the amount of the rent. Now, it is probably clear to everyone that the fee is paid once, the rent is paid, for example monthly 60,000 - a small apartment in Ljubljana. Fee 4,000 - one-off. So, I think this argument is completely pointless and ridiculous about the rationale behind this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Kucler Dolinar. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u36	I'll tell you two more. 10,000 scholarships to students, 4,000 fees, 40% once a year. A lot of people don't decide to accept students who have a grant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u38	I would also like to say that when it comes to paying 4,000 dollars, you don't have 60,000 dollars to pay the first rent, and if you're also a registered and certified tenant for rent, even if you're making a lease with the owner of the apartment, the municipality is paying a subsidy, that's what you need to know. The municipality shall not be able to pay a subsidy in so far as a tenant who has the right to a subsidy has a contract concluded and registered with a private tenant of the apartment. It is said that this tenant, including them, happens to conclude these contracts every year because they have to move from apartment to apartment every year. That's the kind of guy we have if I tell you the case. There were 177 out of 199 people in Isola who, if they stayed in the rental private apartments, would be in each contract registration - and change the apartment every year, I must tell you. That's how it is, from one to the other, to the third, to the tenth apartment. Thus it is impossible to obtain permanent residence and remain in ignorance of any permanent residences. For this reason, I believe that the people who are paying rent with such difficulty also have a meaning of 4,000 tolars. It doesn't mean anything to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I give the floor to the representative of the government, Mr Špiletic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. The inability to pay the taxes of those in poor financial condition has been repeatedly exposed. The government estimates that the current law allows the identification or exemption of the payment of taxes to those in poor financial condition. However, we estimate that the general exemption, as proposed by the amendment, would lead to those who are not entitled to the exemption. Secondly, the payment of a tax in the event of a search for the right to provide a non-profit apartment has been repeatedly exposed. The Ministry of Finance has already taken a clear position that no fee is necessary in this case. Unfortunately, we have found, even on the home committee, that there are different practices in individual municipalities. In this regard, the Ministry of Finance has already started all activities to identify the actual practice in Slovenia as a whole and will ensure that this position of the Ministry of Finance is uniformly implemented throughout the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mr. Špiletic. This concludes the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of a half-hour vote after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.50 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEPARTMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SCHOOL INSPECTION LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation to Mr Education and Sport Minister Dr Milan Zver. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u42	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! So the government wants to bring this law into line with the new circumstances, as well as with some new legal bases, with the amendment of the School Inspection Act. This is about the fact that the purpose and purpose of the law, of course, remain the same as in the current law, namely respect for the legality and rights of children, students or all participants in the educational process. The Inspectorate - the main changes relate to its competences so that it can be said that, on the one hand, competences extend slightly to other entities, such as student homes, higher education institutions and, on the other hand, the new laws define more precisely the powers of the Education Inspectorate. It is also a matter of some harmonisation of actual competence, i.e. by the law on inspection, which also regulates the field of inspection in the school field. The law in Article 1 extends the competence of the school inspectorate also to homes, students and student homes. In Article 2 and 4 respectively, it amends Article 7, which states that certain professional expertise can also be managed by certain institutions within the framework of the school system, such as the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia, the Centre for Vocational Education, the Andragog Centre, the State Examination Centre, as well as some other institutions. Article 6 quite simply states that an inspection is required to carry out regular checks as a rule every fifth year, which means that a few of these regular checks will be less than they are, but they may be more thorough than they are. Article 5, for example, lays down the conditions that experts must have in the field of education, this is a high level of education and ten years of work experience. Article 3 provides that the content of the professional examination for the general part shall be determined by the Minister, provided for by the Minister responsible for the administration and by the Minister for Education’s special professional examination. These are the key changes we are introducing with this short novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you, Dr. Beast. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman or Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Sam Bevik, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! At its 7th meeting, on 7 September 2005, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport addressed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the School Inspection Act proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. In a supplementary explanation, the representative told the members that the proposed amendment was not in violation of the basic principles of the law, but was in line with the amended sectoral legislation - the Law on Inspection, the Law on Public Servants and the Law on Offences. The representative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia presented their written opinion and said they supported that part of the proposed novel, which means compliance with other laws governing inspection. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, however, said that the comments made in their written opinion were largely taken into account. The members and members of the Committee made comments on Articles 1 and 4 of the Act in particular during the discussion. The Committee then adopted its amendments to Articles 3, 4, 7, 9 and 10. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. By including the amendments adopted, the legislative proposal has set out the text of the amended bill, which is an integral part of the report and is now under consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed law belongs to a large group of laws that we receive in the National Assembly, as in the current lane, to be dealt with in the short term and to the announced minor amendments that are expected to be necessary in order to comply with the legislation in force. As in most cases, the applicant shall ensure that there is no greater or perhaps even conceptual change. That proposals for amendments and additions arise in considerable haste and that they are ill-conceived, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which has made comments to the seventh section of the Act, which has no more than 11 articles without transitional provisions. The opinion of the Council of State, which attaches to that part of the changes relating to coordination with legislation, is also being held to some extent, but raises concerns about some of the solutions raised by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. In the Social Democrats Group, we do not oppose those changes that really mean compliance with the legislation. However, the justification for the changes in existing practice is not acceptable if it means a reduction in the volume of work and thus the effectiveness of school inspections. The previous provision that regular supervision be carried out in schools and kindergartens at least every fifth year is now amended to reduce the standard of regular supervision, as it will normally take place every fifth year after the new regular supervision. The exclusion of student homes from the competence of supervision of the school inspectorate has also remained at the level of experience so far, but we have not received an answer to the question in which the supervision of student homes will be judged by a new one. However, despite comments from the legal and regulatory services, some new powers have not been adequately clarified and supplemented, for example, the powers of the inspectorate with regard to the appointment and discharge of the director or director, the assistant director in the original dictatorship. However, the scope and nature of the proposed amendments certainly goes beyond the solution in Article 4, which constitutes a conceptual change. We understand the difficulties caused by the large volume of work and the small number of inspectors and inspectors, which require them to assist themselves in their work with the expert opinions of external colleagues. However, it is unacceptable that the proposed amendment authorises institutions or public institutions as a whole for expert opinions. This is where the conceptual change is, for example, because the educational institution is dedicated to advisory work and now it will regain its inspection powers. This is not compatible with the design, which is also dominant in other European countries where inspection and advisory functions do not unite in one institution. An individual consultant may draw up an expert opinion and it is unacceptable that the educational institution, as an institution, would assume the role of extended school inspections. We oppose this, so we will support the proposed amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u48	Well, hello, all of you! In Novi Slovenija we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the School Inspection Act because there is a need for a legal dictatorship with other laws already adopted. The proposed amendments abolish the competence of the school inspectorate to operate student homes, since the school inspectorate has not already had this authority in practice. THERE have been no complaints after the Chief Inspector's words, so we do not see the need for the work of inspectors in this area. The compulsory examination of the professional competence of inspectors shall be suspended every four years after the professional examination, as this is regulated by the Law on Public Servants. In particular, institutions are defined for tasks supervised by the school inspectorate. However, the powers of the inspector are also clearly defined in the findings of incorrect verification of knowledge and evaluation. The compulsory supervision of an inspector every 5 years in each educational institution is changed to 8 years, as it is not possible in practice to do so every 5 years, according to the Minister, due to the existing organisation and number of inspectors. We hope that the effectiveness and legality of educational institutions will still be ensured, as we believe that frequent visits by inspectors cannot act in a stimulating way on the work of educational institutions. In Novi Slovenija we support the proposed amendments to the School Inspection Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Uhanov. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the School Inspection Act does not make major changes, but it is primarily about complying with laws such as the Law on Inspection, the Law on Civil Servants and the Law on Offences. The new law repeals the mandatory examination of the professional competence of the inspector every four years and specifies in particular the institutions that provide professional support to the inspector in the exercise of supervision and more specifically define the statements of the necessary measures. We also included in the amendment of the law the comments of the legislative and legal service on the home working body with the amendments of the committee. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that these changes in the law will certainly make it possible for the school inspection to work more efficiently and economically, so we will also support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! Thus, as has already been said, the matter proposed is complementary to the existing law and the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are without prejudice to the basic principles of the law. Unlike previous speakers, however, I would like to point out that it is positive that it brings forth the law in articles 14, 14a, 14b and 15 quite a few new positive things. That is, if we look at the details, the inspector has the right and the duty to revoke the assessment and order the reassessment. Therefore, it can also exclude textbooks that are not in accordance with the prescribed rules. In short, he may also propose to the Director the introduction of a disciplinary procedure against the worker, in short, he may also propose the termination of the working relationship for a professional worker or teacher who has not carried out his or her duties in accordance with the rules. These are the things that led us to view the law as positive, and as has already been said, the law is supplemented by the basic law on school inspection and we cannot speak for so-called bad or radical changes in marriage. Therefore, the Slovenian National Party will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The proposed amendments and additions to the School Inspection Act should be without prejudice to the fundamental principle of the law, since, as defined, the main objectives of the adoption of the law are, inter alia, to harmonise the real competence of inspection laws, to define more concretely, to express measures, to harmonise areas and control, with regard to the transfer of particular areas to other bodies and ministries and to define more concretely the institutions that provide professional support to the inspector in carrying out inspection. The amendments that follow the first two objectives are not opposed in the LDS House of Members, since they are indeed in line with the other laws governing inspection. We note, however, that there are also some important changes in the law that are unthinkable and therefore it is questionable that there are too many articles of law at issue, and the legislature has also warned. In part, the amendments on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport have already been corrected and one amendment has also been tabled by our Club of Members. However, for the LDS Member Club, there are more controversial changes related to the transfer of individual areas to other authorities and ministries, crucial to the specific definition of institutions than only experts who can provide professional support to the Inspectorate in the exercise of supervision. The law also brings down the scope of inspection activities. Although the inspection has not been able to verify every five years all kindergartens and schools due to the staffing and material conditions, the government should gradually ensure that the conditions required by the inspection for its activities are met, instead of reducing its activities. In this regard, it does not seem appropriate for us to transfer individual expert expertise in inspection matters to public institutions which have a particularly advisory role, such as the education institution, but rather to represent the position that individual experts who may be employed in these institutions should do so. The proposal for amendments also takes too little account of children, students, students as well as users on the one hand, as well as teachers and other workers as performers on the other hand. In view of the persistent number of cases of various attacks, including physical and other forms of threat to the latter, these are operators, it is undoubtedly also necessary to define the areas and content of inspection in the field of user obligations. Otherwise, the reputation, authority and thus the social position of teachers and other educational and training workers in these processes will be further reduced, and the level and quality of education and education in our schools will also be compromised. It also seems to us that there is an absolute ban on the use of unconfirmed textbooks, as this does not follow an important objective of ensuring differentiation, creativity and creativity in schools. In any event, it is essential that each supplementary learning material is permitted, including the use of other resources. Last but not least, practice shows that more young people are always serving electronic resources and content to an unsuspecting extent. Often, especially in the field of selection, specific astronomy is already such, and certified textbooks are not easy and the prohibition of the use of unconfirmed textbooks also prevents the learning process. In the LDS, we therefore doubt that the proposed changes will contribute to the greater effectiveness of the inspection work. We believe that part of the proposed solutions is inconceivable, so we will not support the bill if the proposed supplements are not adopted, in particular complementing Article 4 of the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. We have completed the presentation of the views of the members of the groups and are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendment of 26.9.2005. I therefore put to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Gaber. Anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General. I would like to announce once again, as on the committee, that when we are really trying to bring this area of inspection into line with some other areas, my conviction is that there has been a delay in the philosophy of the educational inspection services set out in Article 4. Once again, I would like to point out to all colleagues and colleagues that a decision was taken in Slovenia, somewhere in the area of independence, which was welcomed by the school meeting at the time, I think, entirely, after previous years of discussions. In fact, the decision to separate the inspection part from the advisory office, that the education institution in the same persons will no longer be present in the same class today as the one who advises and tomorrow as the one who conducts the inspection. This mixed function has put counselors and counselors in a very strange role. There are some teachers and teachers here in these rooms. I am one of them, and we have experienced on our own what this dual role of advisor inspector looks like: I advise, but if you do not follow my advice, I punish you. In this schizophrenic position to place a person and some institution seemed then professional - and I think that the dominant seems to do so today - not particularly wise. With our Supplement to Article 4, if we do not fully address such a situation, at least reduce it, bring it to what is still acceptable, perhaps acceptable. In fact, if it is true that the inspection service cannot find other experts who would be included in the list of experts who go instead of an inspector to examine a particular case in the class, and if it is therefore necessary to include experts and experts from various public institutions listed in Article 4: CPI, Institute of Education and Andragog Center, etc., then let us at least make sure that this institution is not carried out by those who exercise this supervision. Because if we stay with what's written here, we're going to have the education institution regaining inspection powers. They are also acquired by the Centre for Vocational Education, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, I'm afraid, half a step back in the refinement of the approach to education in this country. No need, I don't think Mr. Minister is for us to take this step. I therefore call on you to support the adoption of such a supplement and thus a slightly different culture of conduct in schools. Let the consultant not be in the same person at the same time and the institution that advises the inspector at the same time. We've been over this. And I would have kept that level.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Gabra. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I have already announced in the opinion of the Group that we will support the proposed amendment in the Group of Social Democrats. Allow me, as a teacher who had the opportunity to meet with inspectors and less of course with counselors, since I did not study in high school at the time, to say from my experience that a visit by a school inspector is something other than the work of a counselor or a consultant. The scope of the work, the powers of the educational institution are different from those of the usual in the 1970s and 1980s, when the inspectors have already checked me to see if I am implementing the subject and the school plan and what I did is consistent with the journal entries. Regular inspections of the school inspectorate ensure that the school’s work is carried out as commanded. The teacher also works in expert groups to help him. And I have to say, I also know the work of the education institute from the experience I've been getting at my graduation. Therefore, this proposal that the education institution, as well as the state examination centre as a whole, be included in the school inspection body as an institution, and this works, is not a good solution because it is intertwined and difficult. Look, just by name, it's hard to change habits. A lot of people who have a long school practice for themselves are still going to hear that they're going to say "inspector" to the counselor instead of "consulter." As we reintroduce the institution as an institution into this part again, this designation will be strengthened and strengthened. And I think we should try harder to let the education institution really take over the development and advisory functions for the school field, and actually let the school inspection do what it does, say, inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u60	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, I support the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy, not because it was tabled by this party, but because the memory of inspection and counsellors actually leads me to the 1960s. Actually, at the time, we had school inspectors who advised, but later, the education agency had advisors who were insinuating. That was in the '70s and of course looking under the finger, what was going on at school, and the counseling was gone. That's how it was there in the '80s. Slovenian education did not start in 1991 and it would be good to look at the solutions that sometimes existed and at the mistakes that occurred in various solutions. One of these major mistakes was that school counselors became inspectors and counseling was withdrawn. In today’s education of all in the educational process, counseling, conversation, and all that is supposed to be, not insinuating and looking under the fingertips, is certainly vital. Therefore, it seems to me that it is very important that we do not mix these matters up, that we do not make some kind of whore who will not be able to determine what is who or what will allow, in fact, only that control can now be exercised by most of the people who are supposed to be doing something else. The other thing is that obviously the inspectors are too small and they can't do the job, but it's also not being solved in a way that standards are falling, but probably in a way that employs more people, that gives them different powers, that somehow improves the matter, but not that the standard is reduced, but now it's all within an acceptable framework. So again, I call for the amendment to be adopted, because it will, in fact, allow for normal work in schools or make it easier to work, while the solution, as it would be, is that more institutions are involved in inspection, a solution that we have seen once or perhaps even more that is not good, but we do not have to repeat history constantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would also like to add some personal experience in support of this amendment, given that I have had the opportunity to act as a teacher and also as a director for some time. And I must say that, as a teacher and as a principal, I wanted to take an innovative part in the development of the institution in which I was employed, and there was a very fundamental thought of mistrust in relation to the new role of the education institution, which was introduced in the 1990s, in view of whether this institution would also have the powers of supervision and inspection. That is why we have spent a lot of time in the institution, especially in creating a positive shift in thinking when considering and exploiting the advisory and development services offered by different institutions in this area; both the education institution, the vocational education centre, the Andragog institution, because it was very difficult to do, as was said here, movements in the heads of those who had already had the opportunity to feel the different roles of these institutions on their skin. And according to my experience and behavior so far, this thought has moved very much into the fact that teachers have really started to cooperate intensively with all these institutions. And a step back and a very important step back would be if this creative atmosphere and this trust counseling, looking for solutions to the development issues of individual educational institutions, in finding those solutions that we have talked about here too much, that we need Slovenian society, create in one person the possibility of one - or in one institution - to create the possibility of one who will advise, while also overseeing. Therefore, I think it is extremely important to hear these comments, which we present today in this amendment, because a very important step back in the development of education, in the introduction of changes, in the innovation to ensure the quality of the educational process, will be the loss of this trust that has been established in recent years. This means that these institutions advise, have a development function and that inspection is carried out by someone else. That is why I express my support for this amendment, because I think that its rejection would be a major step backwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Would any of the Members like to discuss it? Mr. Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to make a few sentences myself in support of the proposed amendment, because I believe that if it is not adopted, the advisory service will be reduced in both the scope and the importance of its important work. I give myself the advantage of definitely learning from training. And why did I say that? For the counseling service now helps with the counseling of the teacher, by teaching them to warn them and perhaps offering them new solutions to improve the learning process. But we know that training is based on punishment for mistakes and then people avoid them in the future. However, we know that training is no longer common in humans these days, but in animals. And that is certainly why I would not want teachers to avoid, because of fear or suspicion that they may be doing something wrong, consulting services that, at the same time, can then be prosecuted for a specific issue. I certainly believe that teachers of their work, at least in the vast majority, do not as a profession, but as a mission and everything they do, do in good faith and new learning aids, new learning methods, new learning methods, introduce in good faith, so that they can give their students better knowledge and better prepare them for life. For the sake of this, I propose that we support and contribute to the future by having as creative as possible, not as obedient teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. Dr. Beast, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to respond to the debate on the amendment and the law as a whole, if I may. All people have good intentions, not just teachers, but the state still establishes certain control mechanisms, creating some rules that standardize the lives of people and society. That is why we also know an authority in the field of education, such as an inspection. However, it is not a matter of making an inspection to contribute to a higher degree of training — not to students or teachers. It is precisely this law that introduces some novelties, so that a wider, wider range of student rights allows even the repeal of the assessment, unless the evaluation decision has been duly taken, as well as the repeal of the educational measure. This contributes significantly to the expansion of student, student, and student rights. It would therefore be difficult to talk about any introduction of training or additional training in education with this novel. Of course, the country does not have - or has - limited options, limited resources. We cannot provide sufficient human resources, such as an inspection service, so that we can carry out this mission without distraction. This is precisely why the additional element which speaks of the inclusion of expert opinions is included. This is not about turning the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia into an inspection body. On the contrary. This authority is some kind of support to the inspection service, which will help it make better decisions. And where it comes from specialized institutions, I see no more suitable address for help, support, inspection than the institutions mentioned above. Once again, it is not about mixing the functions and missions of these institutions, such as counselling, inspection. I guess that's clear. Certain inspection powers are clearly defined, including as regards the use of textbooks. The decision on which textbooks are to be used in the educational process lies with the professional bodies, the professional council. Of course, teaching and other tools are quite widely understood that there are no limitations when it comes to additional tools in the learning process. There is no fear that the inspector would ban any appropriate additional teaching aid or anything like that. We have also released, liberalised, a few of these textbook validation procedures this year, so that it is not a matter of fully limiting or restricting the freedom to choose teaching aids. For these reasons, because it is not a matter of mixing the function, because it is not a matter of duplicating the tasks of this institution, it is not a matter of transferring the inspection functions to these institutions, the Government considers that this amendment is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Gaber has spoken, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, dear fellow Beast, we will vote on this supplement tonight. I'd like you to consider in the coalition how we're going to vote. It's not a political game, it's not a big ideological question. It is a completely practical issue and practical functioning in schools. Mr Germič pointed out this, and also the chief inspector, who came from the education institute, knows how long it took to slow down the view of advisors as well as of inspectors. People have found it hard to accept them as advisors. There was still an old shadow of inspectors. Let me repeat, if Fani Nolimal enters class with me today and advises me, and this Fani Nolimal comes tomorrow as an inspector, then to me, even when he advises me, let the light shine that there is an inspector here. And this is not wise; if I counsel you in such a way that I may also punish you, I do not really advise you, but in silence I threaten you. This logic is what we want to take away from this relationship. I'm telling you right now, it would be the purest solution for me to choose this list of experts from other people. But if the Chief Inspector believes that it is also necessary for people who are employed at the Education Institute, then we agree that those people should be, but let's not be an institution like the one behind it. That's the difference between your text and the text we're proposing. We do not go as far as we would really like to go so that it would not be possible to call these people in exceptional cases even if there are no other experts. I would also suggest to you, Mr. Secretary, and to you, Mr. Chief Inspector, that even if we have accepted our supplement, you should only exceptionally use these people, because there are others at the university, the other teachers you can put on this list; there are about 35,000 people in this education and education! It is not true that it is not possible to get "experts", exceptionally not ever, and then invite this person "ad, person" but not the whole institution to mix in. I don't mean to have long discussions with you about this, but I would very much like you to think about it by evening, it's still a while, and accept this supplement that doesn't compete with you. His wish is very simple: to maintain the level that we have already achieved in the school space culture. Less threats, less stuff hanging over your head, more counseling, more general reflection. It's a philosophy that you're also advocating, at least that's how I understand you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Gabra. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u70	President, thank you so much for your word. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. I am also one of those who worked in the school field and may therefore be more able to detect the problems that arise in this school field. I've been alone for 20 years with chalk for the board. And I have to say that colleagues have already told very plastic what the educational institution was in the past, and in the same schizophrenic situation, when they had advisers and also inspectors, it was the main supervisory authority as well as the advisory body. For this reason, I do not think it is good for us to mention these things in article 4, Mr Minister, because if we accept a dictatorship such as this, the field of those who can advise school inspections has been very neglected. Moreover, it is written that individual professional inspection works are also carried out by the institution. So the office is running! As a new task, they will have to be introduced into the founding acts of these institutions if they wish to carry out these tasks in accordance with the Statute, which, of course, will also be possible against payment or otherwise. I don't think that's a good idea. Experts, too, if I skip to a different level of decision-making, to the courts, do not say that these are just institutions, but that individuals who have a licence to give such individual expert opinions are also those opinions which the Court will then judge when assessing the various actions. That is why I would be more, look, Mr Minister, at this amendment to be accepted, because it does not limit what you claim here in the law, but it does extend this matter further. The amendment says: "According advisors working in public institutions can also perform individual conducts in inspection matters." I don't think the institution will write the entire expert opinion as such, but it will be written by people who are employed in these institutions. And if we accept such a dictatorship, Mr Minister, everyone, including in public institutions such as the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia and so on, as experts from their members, will be able to write certain opinions that the Inspector will then take into account or not. But this will not be the opinion of the entire institution to be accepted. I don't think the whole office would be dealing with this, probably the director will sign it, someone will do it -- that this thing is obviously written, in the present article, such that I think it's a step back if the dictatorship is accepted as it is here. And that is why I would only invite you as the person most responsible in the Republic of Slovenia for the smooth running of these things and not to go back, just to think about and try this amendment, which restricts it, a couple of institutions, to extend to all public institutions, and individuals in these institutions that this amendment gives in this dictatorship.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Anybody else want some? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. These initiatives are quite different coming from this side of the National Assembly. You allow the possibility that employees of the institution will also inspect or prepare expert opinions. Some strongly opposed it for reasons that teachers should see in a worker, a consultant, at the same time an inspector. I don't know, I think it's a little under-appreciating of the teacher or advising in advance some bad intentions, as far as we're so afraid of visiting the inspector. It's like an inspector is a skydigare that everyone in the school system is so afraid or they're assigning him a very negative value. Here, once again, it is not about these institutions or institutions referred to in here performing inspection tasks. They carry out only an expert opinion and it is clear that these opinions will be prepared by individuals in these institutions for one practical reason, because this is, say, a welcome thing, because it is a specialized institution and for this reason we can assume that these expert opinions will be properly prepared. This is a practical solution which, in my opinion, will increase the efficiency of the inspection service, given that the Slovenian school inspection is extremely humane. I think it is essential that we adopt the proposed law in a form that we want the service to be able to carry out its mission.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Mogue, you've reached out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, this isn't about the inspectors. Inspectors are appointed, have their license, perform these tasks. Here we are talking about those experts who carry out these opinions. And look, at the end of your sentence, in addition to those mentioned by you from the educational institution, you also have written "and others for this qualified public institutions". What other qualified public institutions are they? Who will receive this licence as a public institution to prepare such expert opinions and then give them to the school inspection - not as an expert opinion of this and this expert, but as an expert opinion of the institution. The institutions will therefore give expert opinions. It seems to me that the case law - this is a little more weight if the institution is a case-law - was enough for you to have an expert on the construction of this and this and this and this and then you could solve these things in this way. And if he's here, I say, our amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u75	Mr. Mogue, time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u76	Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you. Mrs. Potrat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. This is not a contradiction in the position of the Group of Members and the amendments proposed by the Liberal Democracy. In my opinion, I specifically stressed that we do not object to the fact that an individual is declared competent to draw up an expert or expert opinion. But this is an individual’s opinion, which, with his name and professional competence, guarantees that his decision to support an inspection, which, because of a limited number of inspectors, is often a mystery to how to react. I don't see inspection alone as just a law enforcement agency, to say the least, and the one that a person would have to blink at. The inspector may also be a guarantee to an employee, a student or a parent that things are doing well. Therefore, the validity of the expert opinion is so much higher. But I reiterate that this should not be placed at the level of the institution, but at the level of an individual with a name and surname, because I also respect the concerns of a respected colleague of Mojet that it is then within the competence of the institution to cut down the instruments of establishment and say that it is also necessary to arrange it there and to the educational institution, for example, to add something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Potter. Mr. Bones, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Although I do not understand why such a comprehensive debate on a proposal that seems to me to be regulating only a little more professional work by inspectors or helping to relieve themselves of the wider professional work that they are currently unable to do in the operational work. At the same time, institutions that have already been established in some way include in their work, in some way they must earn their bread if I am very specific. Otherwise, I think the school inspection should actually take a step back. And I agree with Mr Grabr that this is a step backwards and it is absolutely necessary to do so. In recent years, school inspection has become a fear and trembling mainly of teachers who deal mainly with bureaucracy and care about how to lead the process so that there will be no cancellation of an evaluation or some educational measure. This has become fear and trembling in recent years. Not only that, but also the fact that large-money seminars were organized where teachers were trained to avoid inspection measures at school. I think it's really necessary to take a step back. I understand that the Government's proposal was primarily designed to include institutions that should be qualified to do so, because inspectors are simply too small and are probably under the pressure of what needs to be done in a concrete way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kokal. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or no later than 20.50 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BASIC SCHOOL LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Dr. Slavko Gabr. With regard to this law, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the law's proponents, Dr Slavko Gabru, for an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u82	Dear Mr. President! Comrade Minister, ladies and gentlemen! We have before us a proposal for a law whereby we would like to continue to build up the school system in this country also on the basis of observations concerning the field of primary school regulation in the Republic of Slovenia. Not for the first time and not only are we warning that the curriculum structure in Slovenia is quite detailed and that it would be appropriate to allow schools to take a few steps in this area both in their own and in their own right. This would contribute to the positive exploitation of a number of options. The core of the law is that we want to enable schools to create a school subject. The school subject is intended to be designed to reduce the number of subjects in each class during the individual evaluation period of the last three years. This would also reduce the number of subjects faced by teachers and students each week during each evaluation period. The number of evaluations in a given period would be reduced and the possibility of flexible preparation of the schedule within schools would be increased. In order to allow this to happen, we propose that we also release the upper number of hours of learning obligations per week. In doing so, the total number of hours for students and students would remain the same as before, i.e. throughout the year. Because we are aware that when we are not used to such a flexible approach to the subject in Slovenia, problems could arise, we might propose certain restrictions and only limited relaxation. The Slovenian language, Italian or Hungarian in the national mixed areas, mathematics and foreign language should also remain a compulsory part of the subject within each week within a certain scope, following this proposal. Courses taught after the current subject for three years must also be taught in the next two years. These are restrictions within which a flexible subject would allow the climate to be released in schools, making it easier to carry out the entire learning obligation. We believe that this law shows support, especially because the law is written in such a way that none of the schools insists on deciding on their school subject, but merely gives this opportunity. It would therefore never be necessary for schools to decide on such an subject. Those who decided for him could do so within the limits prescribed by law. A number of schools in Slovenia are ready to make such a decision to reduce problems to relieve pressure on students and students. Slovenia wouldn't be anything special about this. The countries that have a long and successful tradition in this area are Finland, Norway, Sweden, Iceland and the Netherlands. They've tried this a long time ago. We believe that such introductions in Slovenia would be followed by an education institution with counseling and assistance, and it seems to us that Slovenia would move away from the old concept, in fact historically, from the time of the introduction of the compulsory school in Slovenia, when the country prescribes the subject more or less than ah to ah. In Slovenia, only after this new exception so far, that there was no choice of subjects and level of study. We would now also add to this the possibility of selecting a specific organisational exercise in the last three years. And since there is also a project of different funding for schools, it is likely that along with this we will round up the increase in the autonomy of education in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Gabra. As the Government does not have a word on this point in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u84	The law proposes to amend the organisation of the subject in such a way that certain objects are carried out in a more concise manner, in a shorter period of time, or to combine individual objects into common areas of the subject. In the latter amendments, the applicants themselves doubt that they could be implemented within a shorter period of time, so they insist on a concise lecture of the individual subject, which would mean fewer subjects and fewer questions in a certain period of time, in the opinion of the proposers. However, the decision to change would be left to individual schools. The proposed amendment would apply to the last nine-year-old triad. Rules do not apply to mathematics, mother tongue and foreign language. In Novi Slovenija we did not support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the basic school law on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport. The proposed amendments do not reduce the number of items which, for example, in the ninth grade of mandatory class 15 or reduce the number of weekly obligations. So the kids in school are longer than the workers in the factory. In this way, I believe that many parents save care and education, but this cannot be healthy and normal for children to be in school all day long. Then there's homework and learning at home. The proposed amendments shall not address the selection content and recognition of certain activities of interest which could be recognised as compulsory selection items. That is why we have not supported the proposed, even good-natured crumbs. We expect a more comprehensive analysis, a change and improvement of the last nine-year-old triad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Uhanov. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The draft law on amendments and additions to the Basic School Act, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Slavko Grabr, brings to the national assembly an idea of a flexible subject in the last triad of the nine-year-old. Such a solution would certainly contribute to greater school autonomy and satisfy the requirement for a more relaxed school. Moreover, changes in this direction could also bring better quality work in the last triad of primary school. However, despite the good solutions mentioned above, the proposed law does not provide comprehensive solutions to the problems that have emerged mainly in the last triad of the introduction of a nine-year primary school. According to the Ministry of Education and Sport, it is already studying the concept of the educational period in primary school as a whole and is planning a more comprehensive reform of the last triad. Such a reform must take place gradually and thoughtfully. It should be based on the analysis and expert opinion of the competent institutions and services and take into account the professional backgrounds and results of the previous phase of the experimental implementation of the planned changes in the sample schools. The swift introduction of such changes with unverified consequences is irresponsible to students, parents, and teachers. It will also be necessary to prepare administrators, educators, and other professionals, as well as students and parents, for changes. Above all, it is necessary to relieve teachers of unnecessary bureaucracy and to return their initial role in the education process, which is working with students. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the education and education of children should not be subject to unnecessary experiments and radical changes, and that the school system should be recast gradually and thoughtfully. That is why we will not support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the primary school law is about implementation in practice and the ability of managers. This issue, however, has been very resounding in the Slovenian public and has in fact been very much criticised by the Minister. I don't think we're changing everything on average, and on the basis of some key of power, it's not appropriate, and it's actually these positions of primary school principals that are speaking in this direction that a lot of strange things are going on in this area. I do not join the predecessors who say that making changes too quickly is not good. This is not a matter of making changes too quickly, it is simply a free choice of the third subject, which would allow the minister to also introduce the principle of the primary school of a believer. And this is what the Slovenian National Party opposes and that is why we will carry out the vote in a negative sense and we will not in fact support the proposal of the mother labour body. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is essentially absurd when the Minister wants to introduce additional material to a small door in school education, as I have already said, even unacceptable for this to happen in such a short time, because we have already allowed this change in the basic law, in the primary school law, and we have given the Minister the freedom to do so. The Slovenian national party will therefore vote in essence against the decision taken and adopted on the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the decision of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Basic School Act is not suitable for further consideration. The proposal for a new law on primary school goes in the direction of modernisation or greater autonomy of school space in Slovenia. However, only a change relating to the organisational aspect of a flexible subject does not, in our view, constitute a sufficient and integrated solution to the learning problem in the last triad of the educational period in primary schools. The changes in the last triad need to be addressed in a comprehensive and thoughtful manner, with only these being based on the analysis and expert opinion of the competent institutions and services and the longer-term test introduction. Too quickly and such a change is, in our view, irresponsible to students, parents and teachers. The applicant shall state among the reasons for the adoption of the law the decision of the 66th meeting of the Section for General Education of the Republic of Slovenia of 1.4.2004, which is intended to support the proposal to introduce a school flexible subject during the last educational period. It follows from the minutes of the 66th Extraordinary Meeting of 1.4 that the General Education Council supports the proposal of the Ministry of Education and Sport to examine the possibilities and introduction of a partially flexible subject in the third triennial of nine years. In this regard, the conclusion also contains a record that the study should be prepared by a professional commission in which the representatives of the Education and Sport Institute, the Education Development Office and the members of the General Education Council, the report or the report to be prepared by the General Education Council by autumn 2004. On 5.7.2004, the former Minister of Education issued a decision appointing a commission to examine the possibility of introducing a partially flexible subject in the third triennial of nine years, and the Commission did not provide a report. That is why the Council of Experts did not consider it. The Government or the Ministry of Education and Sport shall examine the concept and implementation of the last educational period in primary school as a whole and at the same time plan a more comprehensive overhaul of the last three years in the direction of functional and organisational autonomy of schools, taking into account the professional background and the results of the previous phase of experimental implementation of planned changes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that it is necessary to establish such an education system that will provide students with the knowledge they will be able to use for their lives. Therefore, it is necessary to train teachers, to provide them with additional education and, above all, to relieve red tape in order to be able to play a more qualitative role in the educational process – working with the student. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, I will support the decision of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Basic School Act is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you, Miss Jeraiev. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Initially, I would like to say that the proposal is going in the right direction and could also offer recognition to the opposition, which has prepared a bill that is actually going in the direction of, say, modernisation or greater autonomy of the Slovenian school space, which is characterised by strong centralisation and regulation. In this context, the proposal for a law is also very interesting and certainly useful on the substantive side and will certainly be implemented in the future. This is a quote from Dr. Beast's Minister of Education and Sport on the Home Committee. The Minister's statement clearly tells us that this is a good proposal for a law and we would expect the government to support it. However, as has been the case many times, this time it will remain in the words, because if we can judge by the vote on the home labour body, the coalition will not support the law mainly because it has been proposed by the opposition. By doing so, the ruling coalition is once again proving its arrogance and reaffirms that the words of support for the opposition's proposal are really far from being done. We will support the proposal of the LDS in the House of Representatives. The amendment of the law allows the school to reduce the number of subjects in each evaluation period of the third triennial of nine years by creating a flexible school subject. Students and pupils who, compared to most European countries, in particular in the last training period, have a relatively large number of subjects would be able to reduce the number of subjects in a given year or assessment period by means of a new law. The solution can be achieved, inter alia, by combining the objects into broader areas or by organising the subject in a way that, in particular, objects to which we devote less hours per week are more concise. If I can wake up a little, many debates in the National Assembly have highlighted the importance of decommissioning children in schools, making their bags too heavy and taking care of a more friendly school environment. In doing so, we would like to point out that the proposed law contains all the previous desired content in primary school. At the same time, the Government is concerned that the law means only organisational changes, which indicates that the government does not fully understand this proposal. In our view, this is not just an organisational one, but some important substantive changes, but they would not work properly without an appropriate organisational framework. In doing so, the Minister himself mentions that trends in reforms in the school system in the world are heading in the direction of the bill, which means consolidating functional and organisational autonomy for school institutions. Let us stress that schools with these students and students will be able to have fewer subjects each year, weekly, and daily, and consequently fewer questions. There will be increased opportunities for in-depth learning and training, as well as a more appropriate organisation of teaching that schools will adapt to their spatial and human capacities and thus ensure that pupils and pupils are adequately and appropriately trained. The process of increasing school autonomy in the design of the subject will begin. Autonomy is particularly evident in the fact that the school can remain in the way of implementation defined by the subject or decide on a school subject in the framework of the bill. The proposed law is therefore based on an international comparative study prepared by the Education Institute, and in our view it constitutes a further step towards the creation of a creatively oriented school, a more advanced and Europeanly comparable educational environment. In doing so, we do not understand the opposition of the Minister for Education and Sport, who, at the same time, argues that the content of the bill will certainly be enforced in the future. That is why we do not see in the Liberal Democracy Club why this step is not being taken now, but not that, as always, everything is being moved into the near future, which is never so close in the end. In conclusion, I would like to point out once again that today, honourable Members and Members, there is an opportunity for us to support the proposed law, irrespective of the proposer, so as to allow for the introduction of a school flexible subject in the last three years of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Master Majda Potter will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! We will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the primary school law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and thus oppose the proposal for a decision of the home labour body, which defines the law as an inappropriate basis for the continuation of the legislative procedure. We have decided to support the proposal signed by Dr Slavko Gaber after thorough consideration, and therefore we believe that he is professionally justified and compatible with the guidelines announced by the Coalition regarding education. The announced deregulation of education and greater autonomy of schools fell at the first test, as the Ministry of Education and Sport opposes the bill. The proposal of a moving subject, which schools are not obliged to introduce, allows them to combine classes of individual subjects and thus reduces the number of subjects, has received the principle of support if the proposal is directed in the right direction and is not contrary to the position of the Ministry of Education and Sport, yet it opposes it. It requires the implementation of a pilot project and notes that the 2004 General Education Council supported the proposal of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to examine the possibility and introduction of a partially mobile subject in the third triennial of nine years. An expert committee has been appointed, but reports on its findings are not to be forwarded and the General Education Council has therefore not been considered. The Ministry points out that it is considering a more comprehensive reform of the last triad of primary school, which is why, in addition to the absence of the report, this is the reason for the opposition. If it's really just an organizational intervention, like the Ministry does me, we could put it in place without so much opposition. In the Social Democrats Group, we agree that more extensive intervention in primary school requires an expert base and the results of experimental phases. We wonder, however, why the Ministry of Education and Sport has not done so in the past interventions to primary school, even though it was a decision that did not have a basic and current practice - for example, the abolition of the national test after the first three years, which practice has seen as good - not in the professional circles - for example, changes related to national trials at the end of the nine-year period. They were accepted without the need for a thorough professional discussion and a prepared proposal, which would also be accompanied by all that change in its consequences; for example, entry conditions in secondary school when it comes to limited enrolment and criteria to be found for students and students to be placed in the same position. The Ministry of Education and Sport has also adopted a regulation, such as an evaluation rule, in order to relieve students, and the profession notes that they do not reduce or increase pressure on students when it comes to reducing time. The Ministry of Education and Sport therefore merely introduces significant changes without appropriate professional consent and without testing phases. It is clear that they are not unacceptable proposals and unacceptable content of the law, but they are not real proponents. Unfortunately, this is not the first case of non-acceptance of the opposition's proposals, but we fear that it is not the last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the draft decision will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 13th item of the agenda, or no later than 20.50 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - The second deals with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for further explanation. Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In short, I would like to further explain the Government's proposal. The main reason for drafting the law is to bring the national legal order into line with the acquis of the European Union and thus bring together seven directives and a single decision in this proposal, so that we adapt our legislation to the European Union. The most demanding Directives being implemented are the Directives governing the entry and residence of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and their family members within the territory of the other Member States and the Directives governing the merger of family members and the granting of long-term residence permits for third-country nationals. With a view to the transposition of a new directive on the free movement of persons who regulate the entry and residence of EU citizens and their family members within the territory of another Member State, a new chapter covering this area is added in the law. As a result of the transposition of the directive on the right to family reunification, the proposed law amends the granting of residence permits for third-country nationals who are in the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of family reunification. In view of the transposition of the directive on the status of third-country nationals resident for a longer period of time, the issue of permanent residence permits for third-country nationals is amended. The proposal for a law further newly regulates certain facilitations in entering the country for pupils and students from third countries legally residing in another Member State during school excursions. Compared to the regulation so far, entry is facilitated and therefore they do not need visas. In addition to the said Directives, the proposal for a law on foreigners also transposes the directives governing the powers of the police to act against foreigners and sanctions, thus re-advising the possibility of forcible removal from the third country of nationals to whom the other Member State has issued an expulsion measure and is located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The police have not had such powers so far, and they are completely new. There is also a new arrangement for assistance to another Member State, which is attempting to force the removal of a third-country national by air. The bill also lays down the legal basis for the development of a new biometric passport form for a foreigner, as required by the EU Regulation. In accordance with the legal order mentioned above, this law will also be aligned with the law on offences by replacing the fines with fines. In the end, allow me, honourable Members and Members, to say a few more words about the amendments. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Ministry of the Interior prepared a proposal for amendments, which took into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and which was also adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. With the amendments, we have eliminated some of the nomotechnic weaknesses of the bill and have identified certain and clear and simple forms and dictions that are in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Welcome to the Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members. At its 11th regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on foreigners as its working body. In a brief supplementary explanation, the representative stressed that the amendment of the law was mainly aimed at adapting European legislation in this field or at harmonising the law with a number of directives and certain other acts of the European Union. Otherwise, the purpose of the bill is also to harmonise those provisions of the Aliens Act which set out the offences with the Act on Offences. The drafter of the law took into account the opinion of the legislative and legal service and, in accordance with the comments of the legislative and legal service, also invited the Committee to adopt certain amendments for its own. Therefore, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also stressed that, in most cases, the proposal followed the comments made in their written opinion and made proposals for amendments to the Committee, so she had no further comments on the draft law. We therefore adopted the proposed amendments to the Committee and voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them without a vote against them. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law, which is also an integral part of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you, committee president. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the above-mentioned proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on foreigners. In particular, it is a system law by which the government regulates the compatibility of the law with certain directives of the European Union. It is important to point out that, in accordance with the European Directive and also with the rules, there are various conditions for the residence of foreigners in Slovenia, both within the European Union and within the Member States or in certain third countries. Otherwise, the aim of the bill is also to harmonise those provisions with the law on foreigners, as the committee president has himself mentioned offences with the law on offences. It is important, by amendment to Article 24, to amend the indent of Article 93, paragraph 1, by stating that it is not determined whether it has been legally concluded, exclusive or, in particular, for the purpose of obtaining residence permits and that certain provisions of that law are not misused to obtain the status of individual foreign nationals in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will fully support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law before us is once again a law that is essentially required of us by directives of the European Union and the European legal order. However, these directives do not require us to save this material in a way that could be harmful to Slovenia. The law or directive imposing on us the adoption or amendment of the law on foreigners also speaks, among other things, of which none of the predecessors has said - of the establishment of the so-called Schengen Agreement, is the regulation of what we have committed to the Schengen Agreement and the regulation of the situation at the border with non-member countries of the European Union. In our case, it is very important to regulate the border with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, which I think would now be very important. We know that Slovenia has a number of problems with Croatia, we know that Croatia is exerting a number of pressures on the Republic of Slovenia, and it is also right that the Republic of Slovenia should at least respond to those pressures in a similar way. It would be nice if, for example, the Slovenian government also thought about establishing a really strict Schengen regime at the borders with the Republic of Croatia, perhaps only between June and August, when they have a higher tourist season. However, I should also touch on specific articles of the law. The bill before us in Article 14 shortens the period of continuous residence in the Republic of Slovenia, which is a condition for obtaining a permanent residence permit from 8 years to 5 years. This seems totally unacceptable to us in the Slovenian National Party, as if Slovenians were not afraid of some foreigners or migrants from other countries, especially from the new members of the European Union. As an example, for example, we could also take -- you've all probably read or seen in the media what kind of foreign law Austria has drawn up. Austria has not reduced the criteria but has increased them, for foreigners, for the arrival of foreigners or for the acquisition of residence permits in the Republic of Austria. We could learn a few things from the old members of the European Union. The fourth paragraph of Article 14 once again amends Article 41 of the old Aliens Act, where adequate financial stability and material security had to be demonstrated in order to obtain a permanent residence permit. Here too the new law has become milder and they no longer need it, I will say, foreigners living in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, this law allows for the possibility for those who do not have their own means of surviving themselves in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain a permanent residence permit. He'll get it with us, even if he's going to live with thefts, beatings, begging, or anything else. We cannot support such a bill in the Slovenian National Party, which would make it easier for foreigners to obtain residence permits in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much! Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The full membership of Slovenia in the EU requires harmonisation of legislation, including those concerning foreigners. We believe that the government has come up with a proposal to bring this legislation into line with the EU acquis and to address many issues of entry and residence of third-country nationals, EU Member States and their family members, to determine who are family members, how to obtain residence permits, to redefine the possibility of forcible removal, a third-country national, facilitating the entry of pupils and students legally residing in one of these countries, and many other things. In particular, a new chapter also regulates citizens of EU Member States. The latter is regulated in detail by regulating the entry and residence of these citizens, their family members and family members of Slovenian citizens. Marriage can be important, but we firmly believe that we must support its content. However, we expect that the realization will be correct both in the interest of the State of Slovenia and also correct in terms of respect for the human rights of everyone concerned by the law. We'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u106	The main reason for the proposed law is to bring the law on foreigners into line with the EU's legal order in the area of free movement of persons. The entry and residence of EU citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, the entry and residence of family members of EU Member States, the entry and residence of family members of Slovenian nationals who are foreigners, the entry and residence of third-country nationals due to family reunification and the entry and residence of long-term residents. Thus, citizens of EU Member States are no longer required to enter the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of the purpose for which they wish to enter or reside in the Republic of Slovenia. After three months they must apply for a residence permit and obtain a permanent residence permit after five years of continuous stay in the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the entry and residence of family members of EU Member States' nationals, benefits apply compared to the arrangements for third-country nationals. According to the current law, it is also a more favourable arrangement for the entry and residence of family members of Slovenian nationals who are foreigners. Newly, however, a foreigner who resides in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a temporary residence permit may merge the family after a one-year stay in the country on the basis of a temporary residence permit and not immediately after a temporary residence permit has been issued, as was now the case. Long-term residents are a new category taken over from the EU acquis. These are foreigners who are not nationals of the EU Member State and have a residence permit issued in a Member State for a period of at least 5 years. Their status is worse than that of EU citizens because they do not have a residence permit. Compared to foreigners, the status is better as only passports and residence permits issued in another Member State are required to enter the Republic of Slovenia. The law also extends the powers of the police in the transit and expulsion of foreigners from Slovenia who do not meet the conditions for staying with us. In this light, it is also welcome to provide that the carrier travelling with a foreigner who has been refused entry into the Republic of Slovenia has an obligation to take a foreigner out of the country. The law also provides for fines to assist, induce and attempt to allow an illegal entry into Slovenia. As an interesting proposal for a law among immediate family members of a foreigner is not considered to be an extramarital partner. The proposal also provides that schoolchildren who are not on school trips are easier to enter the Republic of Slovenia than other foreigners. Parliamentary Group New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party supports the proposal of the law on foreigners.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Kokal. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday 29 September 2005 following the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the Court Register. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u108	The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register was also considered by the Committee at its 11th session. The law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also took part in the meeting and stressed that the proposal for amendments to the Committee had already taken into account most of the comments made by that service at the time of the submission of the law. While some of the comments made by this service on Articles 2, 3, 9 and 15 of the draft law remained up to date, the proposer, with his proposals for amendments to the Committee, submitted them either before the meeting or at the meeting itself. As it is said, most of the proposals and opinions of the Legal and Legislative Service have been taken into account by the proposer. However, it did not take into account the opinion of Article 3 of the bill introducing the new enrollment entities in the Court Register, namely the European Shareholder Society and the European Economic Association, because it considered that the registration regime for both companies before the adoption of the legislation which would have previously regulated the conditions for their establishment was not disputed. As it is said, we have adopted the proposed amendments on the Committee and have also voted on all the articles of the law and passed the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Mozzie Kucler Dolinar. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Once again, your honors present. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register is a matter of full compliance with all the provisions of the first EEC Council Directive on the harmonisation of protective measures to protect the interests of members and third parties, as well as certain other EEC and other European institutions. The law itself has a number of good solutions, especially in the field of the protection of the interests of third parties and members of society, which in the Republic of Slovenia, at least after recent developments in this area, we still need so much more. It is true, however, that they are enforcing the law, as we have heard, even the new enrollment entities, as pointed out by the legislative and legal service, and I do not know or understand why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has failed to take this kind or well-intention into account. The legislative and legal service has said nicely that the law provides for new enrollment entities, given that there are still no new rules on how these should be established - especially the European Economic Association and the European Shareholder Society - such a provision is completely meaningless today. As we are already talking about registers, in particular the registers required of us by the European Union and their coordination, allow me to remind or expect, on this site, that I reasonably expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to present a register of pedophiles in a short time in this National Assembly. You know, even such a register has the European Community, it was then given to us, in all of the well-known cases of a Belgian offender, I will say this, for humanity or at least for me, the greatest crime, because it was then found to be a man who was essentially French and committed the same crime already in France. At that time, the European Union decided to introduce a register so that it would be known from which country, especially the Member States of the European Union, someone who has such terrible tendencies. And I hope that in this segment we will also begin to follow the example of the European Union as soon as possible and that the National Assembly will also be able to discuss such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. The applicable law on the Registry was adopted in 1994 and has not been amended yet. The proposal for a law is aligned with the provisions of the first Council Directive on the harmonisation of safeguard measures to protect the interests of shareholders and third parties, with which the last amendment of the company law is largely harmonised. In addition, the proposal aligns Slovenian registrar law with the requirements of the 11th Branch Disclosure Directive, which are opened in a Member State by certain forms of companies subject to another country's legislation. In accordance with the first Directive, the proposed law regulates: the effect of the disclosure of the documents and of the data entered in the register, the principle of positive and negative publicity, and the determination of the reasons for society's nullity. At the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the proposer took account of most of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service in the proposals for amendments. However, the legislative and legal service’s comments were not taken into account in the third article, which introduces new entrants into the Court Register, namely the European Share Company and the European Economic Association. Contrary to the legislative and legal service, the applicant considers that the registration regime for both companies before the adoption of legislation that would have previously regulated the conditions for their establishment is not disputed. The proposed law was largely supported by the committee. Any implementation of this law will lead to the first amendment of the Law on the Court Register to European company law, which will follow other harmonisations. However, the proposed amendments do not affect the content and systematicity of the law. Nor will the proposal have direct financial and other implications. The Court Register is an important element of the business of economic and other entities and it is therefore important to coordinate with EU law as transparent and as quickly as possible, to avoid problems that could arise otherwise. On this occasion, it would also be worth mentioning only the registration of economic operators in the sense that the procedures for such registration are rapid. Only then will we be able to achieve proper legal certainty. For this reason, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you, Miss Jeraiev. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u114	The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Court of Justice regulate individual issues which are governed in the European Community by the first Directive on the harmonisation of safeguard measures for the interests of shareholders and third parties, which Member States require of companies. In particular, in the sense of creating protective measures with the same pupil in all countries of the community. It's a so-called publicity directive. The publicity principle is also one of the basic principles of the Registry of Justice and has been the guiding principle so far. No one may refer to the fact that, from the date of publication of the entry of the particular data in the register or from the publication of the submission of the document in the register of justice, he did not know this information or the contents of the document on which the registration was based. The date of entry of the data in the register or publication of the document submitted shall have significant consequences for the entities involved or acting jointly with that economic operator. Article 8 is amended to deal with the effects of a publication which has so far not been in line with the guidelines of the Directive. Thus, the change in the appearance of publicity effects is linked to the publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore important to announce the publication of the entered data or documents. The publication in the Official Journal, the official publication, is another final step toward publicity. Thus, it is important that the publication of the entry is made public. An exception shall only be provided where third parties know the actual circumstances prior to their publication. Let me also touch on the case set out in Article 43 of the bill, which is the answer to the question of what if there is a discrepancy between the data entered in the register and the information published publicly. Since this can have significant consequences for those who look at the register and track the data in public newspapers, it is an important solution and conclusion, which is also based on the principles of the first directive, which expressly emphasises that what is entered in the register is what corresponds to the actual state, even though the content of the publication is different. This is also followed by the proposed arrangements so that, in the case of discrepancies, the data entered in the register of the court, rather than published publicly, are considered. Of course, it is important - and in New Slovenia we also support the solution stated in the law - that, in order to protect third parties, they can refer to potentially mispublished data. A new Article 41a is also introduced, which constitutes a provision for the nullity of capital companies in accordance with the requirements of that first Directive. It is essential to ensure as high a level of legal certainty as possible. It is not possible for a person who did not know and could not know of the destruction of society to be null and void. However, it is deemed that the third failed to register when it was published in the Official Journal. The failure of society has, of course, effects on different areas. With regard to legal transactions, the new legal provision provides that the nullity of the company does not affect the validity of the legal transactions concluded by the company with the voluntary third parties. However, it is also very important to provide a solution with regard to the effects on shareholders' obligations, for which it is stipulated that shareholders or shareholders are obliged to pay any outstanding shares or underlying deposits to the extent necessary to pay the company's obligations to creditors. These and some other innovations will have a significant impact on the elimination of the uncertainties and problems that have arisen in practice and have also resulted in major financial and business effects for individual economic operators, so we will support the changes and additions to the law in the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday 29 September 2005 following the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR ADVICES AND RECOGNITIONS FOR EXCEPTIVE AFFECTS IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Rudolph Mojet, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u116	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee took a thorough look at this law and made the law, which had 27 articles, complemented it with 28 amendments. A number of amendments were editorial in nature and some were of a content nature. I'll try to tell you what was mostly in the editorial department and what was mostly in the content. The editorial nature was, can be written, research and development activity or scientific research and development activity. After a long discussion on the Committee, the Minister explained and the Committee bought this to mean a scientific research activity that results in scientific results, and in a number of articles the Committee also replaced the term "exploratory activity" with the term "scientific research activity". Second, the substantive amendment change is as follows. All the while, in the original text of the award and recognition for Zois, the committee awarded the award, while the recognition of the Ambassador of Science and Puhov's recognition was given by the minister and the minister also chose all the procedures that led to the granting of this recognition. With the amendment, the Committee has achieved that from now on all prizes and awards will be awarded by the Committee. The next substantive amendment is as follows. Previously, they received or benefited from the award of Zois prizes and Zois's recognitions by researchers in or in the Republic of Slovenia, while the recognitions of the Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia and Puho's recognition were obtained by the foreign Slovenians and Slovenians. The committee and I have made this clear, and now, if the law is adopted as it is, Zois' awards and Zois's awards will be obtained exclusively by researchers in the Republic of Slovenia, while the recognition of the Ambassador of Science and Puho's recognition will also be obtained by the Slovenians and Slovenians working abroad. The next thing, which is also an amendment, is this; we talked about how the name "Pooh or Pooh or Puch" is correctly written. In the wake of a very long debate, Mr Jure Zupan, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, regarding the correct writing of the name Puh, said that he had asked about the celebrations and historians, and they said it was called Puch. If we had a committee or committee in the National Assembly for the time being, a working body dealing with the public use of the Slovenian language would certainly ask these questions, but because unfortunately we will not try to tell the truth in the National Assembly. The minister reasoned that, he said, the historians told him that Puch had always signed himself as a Puch, but only once as a Puh, when he signed the marriage certificate, that was only a technical error. The Committee also corrected the following things with the amendments. It extended the number of candidates for committee members and extended the candidates for these prizes. Finally, the Committee adopted a decision, namely: "The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, following the example of the Prešeren Prize, which is the highest national award in the field of culture, to ensure that the scientific awards and its prizes are given similar attention and promotion to both the general public and the Slovenian political summit. We place great hopes and expectations on the declaration level. It is clear that science, in addition to other segments of society, contributes significantly to the quality of life of a nation, so it would be right for the highest national scientific awards received by individuals and individuals for extraordinary research and development achievements to receive the necessary attention." Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Committee has unanimously adopted such a corrected text and I also propose that the National Assembly decide on this by a quorum similar to that of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Miss Eva Irgle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the adoption of the law on awards and awards for outstanding achievements in scientific research and development activities, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has introduced into the procedure and has been prepared by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology Development. Given that the 2002 Research and Development Act removes the chapter on scientific research awards, the basic objective of this law is to regulate the award of awards in the field of research and development. The present law has only established the types of achievements on which prizes and awards are awarded, not the type of prizes. Thus, the definition of awards was left to the law. In order to avoid grading the importance of prizes in the field of research and development, the proposal for a law that we are considering today also identifies the types of awards and awards and the purpose of awarding them. In addition to Zois' prize, Zois' recognition, the recognition of the Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia, the law defines as a novelty the Puhovo recognition, which is awarded for inventions, developmental achievements and the use of scientific results in introducing innovation into economic practice and has not been shared so far. Finally, this law is primarily about thanking individuals for their extraordinary achievements, but at the same time, the awarding of prizes and recognitions is also an excellent promotion of the importance of science and technology for the social and economic development of our society. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we support the law on awards and recognitions for outstanding achievements in scientific research and development activities, as this law will finally systematically regulate the award of awards and awards for the research and development achievements of individuals.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law on awards and recognitions for outstanding achievements in the field of scientific research and development activities aligns this area with other state-level awards that have been regulated by specific laws so far. Until now, awards and awards for scientific research work have been regulated by the rules and only a number of achievements have been established by law on the basis of which awards and awards have been awarded. In the LDS Club, we would like to start by assessing that the quality of this law, until it was properly corrected by the Higher Education, Science and Sport Committee, did not reflect the quality of Slovenian scientific, research and development activities. In considering the individual articles, we were able to find that 24 out of 27 articles should have been amended, as far as the proposal for a law is concerned, without touching Articles 6, 25 and 27, which are more or less procedural. That is why we want better proposals for laws to be included in the validation of the quality of Slovenian scientific research and development activities in the future, involving an interested public directly involved in the preparation. The law will be supported by the LDS Group because we believe that it is crucial for Slovenia to be aware of the importance of scientific, research and development activities to the greatest extent. We must be aware that bad work in the field of science and research has negative effects on the whole of Slovenian society and must therefore become even more important. Science-based sustainable development and knowledge-based society is only possible if we respect, appreciate and properly reward the achievements of scientific, research and development activities. By awarding such prizes and, as a result, by increasing the promotion of science, we will undoubtedly help to enhance the reputation of scientific, research and development activities. As athletes with their championship achievements, scientists and researchers will be able to play a greater role in the motivation of younger generations. In linking science with a wider society, we believe that, in addition to the level of the prize, there is also an important way in which awards and recognitions will be awarded, how they will be presented to the public and how they will be felt by young people and everyone else who is already in this activity. The LDS Group further expects the Minister to make an effort to obtain funds for the implementation of this law, thus putting science at a comparable level with other areas also on a financial basis. Compared to past practice of the regulation, the law introduces recognition for inventions, development achievements and the use of scientific results in introducing innovation into economic practice. This is important because science strengthens the identity of a nation whose reputation grows through research activities, technological advancement and economic performance. On this basis, greater general development and general human well-being are being achieved. The Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, by its decision, proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, following the example of the Prešeren Prize, which is the highest national award in the field of culture, make sure that the prizes in the field of scientific research and development activities and its prizes receive special attention and promotions to both the general public and the Slovenian political summit. We place great hopes and expectations in the scientific research activity at the declaration level. It is clear that science, in addition to other segments of society, contributes significantly to the quality of life of a nation. It would therefore be appropriate for the highest national scientific awards received by individuals and individuals for extraordinary research and development achievements to receive the necessary attention from the Slovenian and international public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Majda Potrat will give her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law on awards and recognitions for outstanding achievements in research and development activities. We have not overlooked that the awards and recognitions for this area have been awarded so far, but it is a proposal for a law-formal regulation of the area and an alignment of this area with other comparable ones. Awards and recognitions are an opportunity to thank those who have contributed a great deal to the knowledge treasury, but at the same time they are an opportunity to establish an area. And when we think about science and research activities, this is all the more important in the light of the Lisbon strategy and the objectives set by the European Union as a whole, and in this context the Slovenian nation as an entity as well. Therefore, we believe that the three types of recognitions: Zois' reward and recognition, the recognition of the Ambassador of Science and Pooh's recognition, are equal to who he is and how he grants them. It is true, however, that it would be good to involve other experts in the preparation of the proposal. I believe that at least those who have proposed the names of individual recognitions have been involved in a sufficiently wide range of cooperation. So if we were to engage other experts who would prevent us from facing the problem that we are now in. The Chairman of the Committee has already mentioned that, in the previous term, we had a working group on language policy and language planning in the National Assembly, which has done important work in relation to the recording of names on personal documents, and it would also be easier to come up with an expert argument on the recording of new recognition, which is Pooh's recognition. I am aware that technology at a time when time is particularly sensitive to the use of knowledge, how it is invented, how science and research achievements are translated into practice, how important this time is, and it is right that such recognition is also established. Of course, the reason for the embarrassment is that we have not cleared up some of the basics regarding the designation of this recognition. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, the amendments and Members and Members of Parliament have been tabled for consideration by the National Assembly to support this amendment. This is not about linguistic trifle and contention of Slovenians about whether "mash or porridge" is actually written, but in fact, by writing this name, we are also strengthening Slovenian national identity. Janez Puh was born 27.6.1862 in Sakuk near Jursinci. He also has a renewed memorial house there. Unfortunately, she's already burned twice, and all you have to do is ask who's on the way to start the fire. He then moved to Graz, where he worked since 1889 and then became a famous industrialist. So it is a man of Slovenian origin, his lineage has been declared since the 17th century onwards, the name Puh lives today, this is a version that lives in Slovenian Gorica, and we know it elsewhere in Slovenia as the version of Polh or Povh, there are also two entries, with v-j or l-j. I therefore invite you to support the amendment that introduces the original designation or the original record of this recognition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. On behalf of New Slovenia, Mr. Master Franz Capuder will give his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a law on awards and recognitions for outstanding achievements in scientific research and development activities. In New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party, we are aware that the regulation of this matter in the law in question is important mainly because it is given an appropriate recognition of science and also of technology and is aligned with other awards at the state level, such as Prešerenova and Bludkova's prize, which are also regulated by special autonomous laws. The law sets out in more detail the types of awards and awards and purposes for their award. The highest national prize in science will continue to be named after the polyglot and secularist and the European Open Slovenian Žiga Zois, for achievements in the field of inventions, for development achievements and the use of scientific results of development activities by the inventor, as well as Slovenia, Phu, who lived most of his creative life in the Austrian Castle. A new prize, namely the Ambassador or the Ambassador of Knowledge, is being introduced in this area. At the appointment of the Puhova Prize, the general public was divided into two parts, whether this recognition should be called Puhovo, with or without "c". In Novi Slovenija, a Christian-human party, we tend to the original record, as was given in the first draft of the law prepared by the Ministry, where Puh was written without "c". According to the proposal for a law, the award will be awarded by the committee for all these awards, appointed by the Government, from established researchers proposed by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, the University and higher education institutions, research institutes, economic organisations and individual researchers. With solutions in the proposed law, we will also be able to give special recognition to those researchers and scientists who in the past have been completing their knowledge abroad, where they have achieved world fame and did not know or wanted to acknowledge their merits, nor to promote Slovenia, nor to contribute to world science. Most of the time, they were branded as those who betrayed their own homeland. But no one thought about their own homeland hindering them from free thinking and unobstructed research, largely because of being openly alerted to their problems. To go abroad, young scientists who are at the beginning of their creative path often make decisions due mainly to better and more appropriate and existential conditions. Foreign environments can provide very good accommodation and an appropriate reward for young and prospective scientists and researchers, which is an exception to the rule. In New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party, we are aware that it will be necessary to do more for science and research in our society than state recognition for achievements and excellence. It will be necessary to enable the development and working environment, to enable and encourage exchange and cooperation with foreign scientists and researchers to transfer current knowledge. Of course, the status of successful scientists and researchers also needs to be addressed. In New Slovenia, the Christian and People's Party, we will support the proposal for a law on awards and awards for outstanding achievements in scientific research and development activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I also ask the representative of the SLS, Master Kramberger, to make his point.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, I would like to briefly state the position of our Group of Members. Our Group supports the proposal for a law on awards and recognitions for outstanding achievements in research and development activities. We are convinced that awarding prizes is such an important issue, as it is a thank - you to an individual for his achievements or for his outstanding achievements in this area. We're talking about science and technology here. Science means economic development, and this is of paramount importance in every society. Therefore, this award also means, in some ways, promoting science and technology. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will be happy to support this law, as it is a matter of comprehensive and systemic regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the amendment review of 26.9.2005. Amendment to Article 3. In the second indent, the word "Puchovo", written with the word "ch", is replaced by the word "Puhova", in the second indent. Here you go, please. Procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u128	No, no, I want to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u129	I'm not done yet. You'll get your word. I would like to remind you once again of Article 3, which states: "In the field of research and development, the recognition of the Ambassador or Ambassador of Science of the Republic of Slovenia and [[Second indent]] Pooh's confession. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members, which I have read to you. Who wants a word? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I apologize for the suddenness I've expressed before. I have already said a part of my reasoning in the opinion of the Social Democrats' Group on this law. Once again, I would like to say that we propose that the designation of recognition be recorded in the original form. This is in accordance with Slovenian spelling. It is a Slovenian spelling, it is a recording of the Slovenian surname. However, the recording of surnames has changed over time, so it is no coincidence that many Slovenian surnames are also known in foreign spelling. For example, a famous Slovenian linguist, an educated and respected man, Fran Miklosič, signed and kept his record in the Austrian script. It is understandable, then, that these students were working in a foreign - language environment. If they wanted to preserve the voice image of their surnames, they had to record or have agreed to be recorded in foreign spelling. Therefore, it is not any small thing and the introduction of a celebration in places where this would not be justified. Look, there's no amendment to changing the Zois record in phonetic form, it's simply a statement of awareness that Janez Puch was of Slovenian descent, because if you were to write with "ch", then you should agree that he was Johann Puch. The dilemma is great. The three panels on Janez Puch, which were published on Ptuj and prepared by the historical archive on Ptuj, opened this dilemma and decided to record this innovator and industrialist with Slovenian spelling. That is why I propose that we insist on this, because the duality of surnames could also be an experience of some modern Slovenian educators and scientists. Last but not least, I see the problem of what will happen over time if someone builds a spelling image of our surnames after what they write to us in electronic form, when noisers are lost and how else we decide to record. Here, however, allow me to hold just one more comment, given that it was said that it was a mistake when he entered the marriage certificate with Slovenian spelling. Literature speaks of three important events in human life, birth, marriage, and death. At birth and death, a person cannot decide how his last name will be written down, but at the time of his marriage, and to me this is the most intimate act of a private nature, where he has signed himself in the way he felt, so it seems to me to respect a valuable decision. I thank all those who support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much. With all due respect for the explanation given by Comrade Potrate, I will not personally support this amendment for one simple reason, it is a violation. Someone was in the birthright books, and I think that scientist Pooh was also enrolled with Puch and we by adopting such an amendment when we're passing and entering it into the marriage and giving some recognition, I think it's important that we use that name that was in the birthright books. I wouldn't have allowed myself to write Z or C instead of C once with my last name, given that it's a last name like that, and I personally don't think it's appropriate to change something that's been written in the mother books that are probably led for centuries and centuries. I asked the Minister if that is the case, and he himself confirmed that he was included as a Puch in his birthright books.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u134	In addition to this amendment, which personally creates interesting dilemmas for me, and I can agree with both the one and the other forerunners, i.e. in some ways I would like to be the basis for the Slovenian surname not to be the subject of violence against people over the surname, then I would of course define myself as the Slovenian pronunciation and the Slovenian record of this surname. In fact, I do not want to give too much attention at this important moment to this, in a way, to the sterling justice, although it is not only the sterling justice, but I would like to stress in this amendment in Article 3 my satisfaction that, in some way, those who are developing inventions, technical improvements and on this basis also propose patents also receive some recognition, a reward. In fact, I was surprised that in all this interim period, this area was in fact so neglected that this technological development, at which [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u135	Mr Jerovšek, I would remind you that we are only discussing the amendment to Article 3, which speaks either amo or a puch s ch or a puh s h. Please, if you stick to our debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u136	Yeah, just a moment, if I can finish. Yeah, that's it. It is about Slovenian knowledge and the tragic fate of Janez Puha that during the period when the Slovenians actually did not have their own country, if they wanted to be, seen, recognized, they also had to sign and write in a language that was just an official language and with which they could break into the world. It's the same thing with Stefan. These renowned Slovenian inventors, scientists and so on, when Slovenia did not have its own country, were also forced to use the surnames and names that have passed from the Slovenianized form into Germanised. There was even more violence on the Italian side, ethnically, because they renamed Slovenian surnames during Fascism into Italianised form. And once again, I stress that even as a bearer of the former, republican recognition of inventions and patents, I am pleased that this recognition returns, that this will be a great incentive for our technological development, that we Slovenians will develop our products, new products and so on. In fact, here I would also like the Government's final opinion that we will be able to decide not to make any mistakes here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Ma'am, the Master of Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you. It's not a crime. In my profession, I was dealing in more detail with the history of northeastern Slovenia. I will refer to Slomsk, who said that in these places they were deliberately sending not Slovenian priests, and they were the ones who entered the mother books. That is why they have sometimes entered, as they knew and knew, the Slovenian surname. It's not a violation, I'm underlining it. Puh, if we speak Puh, we all hear Puh, but we can write with Puh or with Puch, depending on which spelling, or in Slovenian or Austrian spelling or German, if we are so precise. See, in the 10th volume of Encyclopaedia Slovenije on page 14 the encyclopaedia composers decided to address the password Puh Janez also Puch. But if you are looking under the password of Puch in the Encyclopaedia of Slovenia, you will have to come back to the Slovenian term Puh. Names and names aren't such a big deal. The first Slovenian monuments testify to the frequent presence of Slovenians by their names, but they were written in many different ways. When you talk about the offence, let me tell you that you will find here in Ljubljana reports of the classical high school from the early 20th century, where all surnames are written in Austrian or German script. Why? What are you going to consider to be a violation? To remind you that the Puh Slovenian last name, in the sound form, see, puh, puh, with "l" or "v" written down, similar to the name Wolf, you know at least the famous Slovenian publicist Willi Vuk, Vuk is nothing but a wolf. So this is a Slovenian last name, and I'm very sorry if anyone gets the feeling that we're stopping at the same time. Finally, a prominent Slovenian and a fellow member of the Ministry of Culture in the letters of readers pointed out how we should record this last name. And I am sorry that we must now focus our attention on where Mr Jerovšek sees this as a problem. I think it is a pleasure to have such a recognition, but it could be great that this satisfaction is accompanied by the fact that it is properly written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Zupan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! A small discussion broke out around this amendment. I must say that I am pleased with this discussion for one reason in particular. She showed that our linguistic science or research had not yet reached this area so deep that we could find it uniformly and uniformly. So this is where our linguists and historians have a lot of work to do. We will make sure that these studies, which are very important, will, for example, determine this rightness of writing, the conditions in which surnames have changed, the ways in which names have been written, the reasons that have led people to do so in some sense, and that we will then be able to decide in an authoritarian and substantive manner on such and similar problems. As all the speakers have shown before me, each one has shown his own argument. Our ministry is - as you have seen - in the original proposal was Pooh, we discussed it, but in a narrow circle. When the amendment came, we expanded this study, talking to historians and celebrities. There a few opinions were crystallized and then we decided, after careful consideration, on the Puch, which is, as we call it, German for a number of reasons. The most important reason is that this is not really the center of the problem. The surname itself does not determine whether someone is Slovenian or not. In fact, the Slovenian is identified by himself, or it is indisputable, however it is written. Today we also know that in the future they will be in Slovenia, because there is an open society, the surnames not only from nearby countries, Austria and Germany, but from countries such as Africa, Asia and the like, which will probably be written in a way that will be appropriate, which will either be used by the holder or adapted to the surname that will be in Slovenia. And yet in my opinion and in the opinion that we have accepted this amendment, we will have to take into account if this citizen of Slovenia or the citizen of Slovenia makes any remarkable discovery, we will take into account his writing as he wrote when he did so. So everything we know today about Puh, when we write it in Slovenia, of course we write Puh. If I lived in Slovenia today, if I was here, etc. However, if this same Pooh, which is undoubtedly Slovenian, continued to live in Austria, he would be no less Slovenian than he is, but he would still be called Puch. And the fact is, we take into account what he wrote in most cases. We came across one record of this last name when we discussed it. I must say, I apologize for the remark that it was a technical error. At the time, I said it in half as a joke on the committee, but I did not know that this would be such an important argument in this discussion. Again, I apologize for this remark, which may not have been appropriate at the time, but that the debate was already quite wide, and I sometimes speak a little more plastic, and I think that sometimes it is also necessary to have some good will so that people do not bury themselves excessively, because I think that co-existence between people and understanding is an extremely important matter. I also do not want anyone to feel defeated in this debate. I think that both opinions are well supported that both opinions have arguments, but when we look at everything that this Mr. Johan Puh signed as such, that he had as hard as we all know, and I must say that I look at myself when I was a little boy, when I saw Pooh's engines that mattered to me a lot, I knew the Pooh a long time ago, and then I was happy and pleasantly surprised that it was the Slovenian Pooh, but as an inventor and as an extraordinary industrialist, as mentioned, the whole of Europe and the whole world knows, because it was actually an industrial breakthrough that made the chariot at a time when the cars were still relatively weak and vicious. This is the fact that we have named the award after someone who was the inventor of the European format and has acted as such and has thus signed and I believe that the association of our prize to this European quality, which is indisputably Slovenian, is why we Slovenians are giving us a prize after this man and it is quite clear that not French, not English, any other nation will not name its prize after anyone else but Slovenian and it is because of this Slovenian signing as Puch and it is also hard to do as Puch, and that this hard and product that he has been working, and the products that have borne his name in the world, the thanks for which we are giving this important reward, so I agree, we cannot, we have decided on the name of Puh. And as proponents, we consider this appropriate. However, it seems to me that the legislative body is here to decide, and with all due respect for everyone who decides otherwise, I absolutely do not think that this could be some sort of blackmail. I believe and, in a sense, commit myself here that research on the origins of surnames at the time of writing would be an important study to be financed by our ministry. If these studies lead to research achievements that will clearly confirm this or another option, we will be the first to propose replacing this name at the national level. At that time, however, I ask that you adopt the law in the form it was, although with absolute respect for all the different, you may vote in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Puch - ch, or Pooh without c, so that's the question now. I remembered the anecdotes at the Faculty of Biotech teaching at Muk. And once he committed a misdemeanor and a cop wanted to write it down because he didn't go across the street on the zebra and write his last name, the professor watched and said, write Muk with "ck". The cop looks at him and says, "If you're CK, we won't write anything." This is probably the case with Puch - ch, which is the circumstances in which he was living. And that's what the minister said. Otherwise Puch was born in the Slovenian Gorica in Sakošak, in the municipality of Juršenci. They also have a long-established Pooh Society and this society is without "ch", it's called Pooh, and it also has a stamp that is without "ch". This company also set up a museum where Puch’s engines were to be collected, which is best known for burning it several times. Every now and then, this museum burns down. I think it's happened twice already. They're guarding him with cameras now. It just doesn't work for someone. What are the reasons, that is now another question. We must decide, and the most debate is how we will actually write. When I listen to these arguments for and against, I wonder how the Austrians would have done it if they wanted to name a confession after it. I'm sure you wouldn't write your name in Slovenian. We'd go to our Austrian performance. And we can also hear the argument that the priest wrote it as a small one in the baptismal book with a "x" because it probably seemed to him in the circumstances of the time, the most appropriate. But then he signed up differently at the wedding. But it would be interesting to see if he was really wrong about the wedding, but how the bride signed it. Probably the same as him, and it might be later to see if it's identical. They probably also agreed, as it were, that he felt more like a Slovenian and that's how he signed. Of course, he alone cannot help us in all this; now we must decide for ourselves whether we will name this recognition as such after it. When I was thinking and asking the locals myself - because I had this opportunity because I was on Saturday at the centennial of the cod, in Juršinci, the oldest cooperative in Slovenia in the field of cane farming - and I heard an interesting thought that someone said there. He said that a lot of scientists came out of this place, and they listed some of them because they were growing reeds, and this reed gave them extra money and they could train their children. This is probably the result of some kind of economy. And then, in fact, the question was asked why the cooperative had ever been established, and no one could say. In the end, however, the answer was due to the vine’s ears, which appeared at the beginning of the previous century and destroyed all the vineyards in Europe, so they began to make vaccines and so on. That's why everyone has their own reasons. Let me finish. I will personally be in this dilemma, given that the natives have also told me that they prefer to see the Pooh with "h" than with "h", and also as Prlek [[And the Pooh was a Pruhl.]] voted for Puh, no "x". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Waste, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u144	I did not intend to call, but I must tell the distinguished Minister that no matter what happens, I will not personally feel defeated or victorious. It's content, and I emphasize, it's not a sonet of mush. It is a matter worth considering, how we feel and how we engage. And when you talked about the European dimension of this recognition, it would be because of the European dimension and the success of the industrialist and innovator Puha that the majority in the National Assembly would want to decide to write without "c". I wonder how our identity will preserve us in the future if we agree to the spelling standards of different times. This was, I stress, the written standard of the 19th century and the early 20th, as an interesting thing to say that Puh died in Zagreb. These are things that are very important. I would like to point out that it is a matter of maintaining the voice image of a last name. Talk to young people who are not very knowledgeable about science, how the Institute of Joseph Stephen reads, because there was a whole little scandal when they were on the radio and now I don't remember whether on the radio or on television, Stefan read. It's simply whether we know some spelling rules or we don't know them. We know it's Austrian spelling, where you read it as no. These are seeming trifles, but in the end, when you count them, you see them deciding what we are and how we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u146	In fact, I must say that, in the meantime, I have also decided absolutely to support this award named after Janez Puh, because I think it is also very important that Slovenian knowledge, Slovenian inventions, Slovenian patents and all of this is defined by a prize that has an original Slovenian surname. Since Janez Puh is also at the wedding, if he signed for Janez Puh, it is evident that he was aware of Slovenian origin, we named the award after him, it is a great European [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Slovenia and in fact I think it is wise that all future winners and this event be given these recognitions, that we are aware of Slovenian roots, including this inventor. [[..]] In my opinion, it is better to preserve what was in the original version. I am also pleased that Mr Minister has not made any distinction as to what is better, because in fact this science must be defined. The fact is that these people were forced to use a non-Slovenian version of the name in the then Austro-Hungarian era. A lot of last names have been permanently changed. But it was a man who knew that, because that is absolute proof, if he did, but it is absolutely important and important that we keep it. The great European nations would have absolutely their own, even if a Frenchman had signed his whole life, let's say, with a Slovenian version, if they understood it, they would have shared the recognition in French. I don't think it's violence against Janez Puho and it's nice and right to just keep the prize under this Slovenian name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or no later than 20.50 hours. This concludes this agenda item. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We're moving on to 10. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - This is the second reading of the proposal for a law on veterinary compliance. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Since he's not here, we'll proceed. The proposal for a law is to be considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother, please ask the Committee Chairman, Mr Aloise Sok, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Presidents, fellow Members and Members. We have a law on veterinary compliance. What I have to say as rapporteur here is that the law has been proposed by the government and the mother labour has prepared the law for this second reading in Parliament, which was on September 8th. A number of amendments were adopted to the law, mainly due to comments made by the legislative and legal service. Then there were some amendments created by the Agriculture Committee. These amendments are of a more substantive nature and have reached into only the content of the law. Several amendments were also proposed by the Veterinary Chamber and are also of a content nature. The law before you is quite specific and demanding. As the legislative and legal service estimates, we have also assessed on the Committee that it is one of the first such laws, so the proposed solutions differ slightly from the usual solutions enshrined in our existing laws. This law lists a number of European directives and references to European directives and therefore requires a lot of coordination, both with the legislative and legal services and earlier within the proposing bodies and, of course, with all the others involved in this law. Let me mention that certain articles have had a larger debate, such as Article 6. This law removes health certificates for domestic animals. This controversy regarding health certificates was repeatedly on the agenda in the previous term in this National Assembly, and several times also triggered, both advocates of the fact that health certificates must be valid, as did those who advocated that this matter could be resolved in a different way. This law goodbyes veterinary certificates and leaves open the question of how to ensure that in the future the stables, breeding of animals in Slovenia, are under constant veterinary inspection, as the European Union requires us to do. In the proposal itself, it was somehow envisaged that once a year, and the Chamber proposed even more than once a year, an authorised veterinarian inspecting certain breeds, not specified, but all breeds, and report thereon to the Veterinary Board of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Committee itself, such duplication of work somehow seemed illogical and pointless, for most, if not all breeds already in existence in the Republic of Slovenia are under constant veterinary supervision, because veterinarians are always present in these breeds and it seemed pointless for us to prescribe a further annual veterinary examination or even less logical to agree to what the Veterinary Chamber has proposed so that these reviews would be repeated. That is why we have drafted an amendment on the committee and voted on it, and we have deleted it from the law. Now, somehow with the amendment, it is once again proposed that the government consider some form of control or some method of reporting, if adopted, this area is left to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to regulate it in accordance with European Community rules. It is not that once a year it would be established to inspect barns that do not need to be examined, because the veterinarians are still present there, but it is a matter of those breeds, possibly those breeds, that really does not exist throughout the year. I think that this ministry will resolve in such a way that, in the end, there will be some kind of solution to this solution. Then there were the debates [[Since I'm running out of time, I have to go.]] , even at the time of Article 9, Article 16, Article 17 and certain other Articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the LDS Group of Members, I ask that Mr Mag's position be made clear. Saivitz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! I find it rather unfortunate and embarrassing that there are no representatives of the government in this room as lawmen and representatives of the veterinary profession from the level of the country and also from the veterinary chamber, the representative of the veterinary chamber is closely monitoring us. I think we Members have been so good today and things are moving faster than the government had imagined. But no matter what, I'm sure we'll all work together to make sure that the marriage that goes into consideration today isn't as good as it gets. But we can make it even better and more effective with our collective strength. That is why I also declare from this city that we will support the law on veterinary compliance in the parliamentary club because we think it is more important for the Slovenian consumer than for the Slovenian farmer. This law also assures him that all of his crops, which were now, of course, available to the Slovenian market, will be able to sell and market throughout Europe and the world, and that we will not only allow him to survive. Nevertheless, there are certain concerns at the time of the adoption of this law, which we do not agree with, and we also expect that the Government which is preparing such laws will succeed in bringing them to an end in the future. In the case of the Law, which has 107 articles, 96 proposed marriages have been supplemented significantly too. Of the 96 supplements that came into the marriage, 67 were by the department and 10 were by the section. It seems to me that it was precisely these amendments that we were talking about on the parent's working body that were unduly suppressed in the corner. Apparently, some political opinions prevailed and perhaps some coalition promises of voters. I am pleased that the opinions of the most vocal on all sides have fallen slightly to date, and I am sure that in the interests of the Slovenian consumer, Slovenian farmer and also the veterinary profession, we can adopt certain amendments and add to what this law will do even better in those articles and in those points that have been most controversial. But it's like this with the veterinary profession. If we view our profession as an unnecessary expense, it will be about as much as I do with firefighters, which I greatly appreciate and encourage, and I am most happy when we raise our hand for firefighters when we buy them an expensive vehicle that we never need all year long. It's like that with the vet. When the veterinary function works best and well, then it is not a big word to be heard about, but we need to keep both the fire department and the veterinary profession fit throughout the year and throughout life when it is most necessary and effective to act. However, I am also afraid that we have been in certain debates and perhaps even in making decisions, sometimes we have listened more than professionally to some self-declared unions that have their own opinions and their own computer. However, this invoice is not always the same as the one most written on the skin of Slovenian farmers and consumers. What this law is, we can conclude today when they are adopted, if they are adopted, the amendments. Today, I would say that this law is about like a pig’s thigh at the butcher’s house, so that with careful care and supervision of the profession it produces a top product: prosciutto. Otherwise, when we do not follow the instructions of the profession, this thigh can produce a stack of smelly meat from first-class quality meat that causes health problems in humans. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And he's making a lot of money to the country because he's not going to have to destroy it harmlessly in the cafeteria. The importance of the profession and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u151	Time's up!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u152	control issues [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u153	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I conclude - and it will become even more important with the transition of disease, such as bird flu, where, for example, the register will be over all the animals we have in this country, and the control of how vital it can be for humans, not for animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you, Chairman for your word. I also regret that I cannot welcome the representatives of the government to deal with such an important law as the Veterinary Criteria and Compliance Act. When we look at the content of this law, it is a matter of full harmonisation and acceptance of the conditions of trade in the internal European market for animals and animal products. The update of veterinary legislation due to the extensive food and feed legislation adopted by the European Parliament and the Council in April 2004 and this law is also adopted by reason of a new regulation on the implementation of official controls in order to ensure the verification of compliance with feed and food law and animal health and protection rules. In view of these extremely important topics contained in this Act, a more detailed review shows that the law also regulates the very specific traceability and certification of animals, feed and products and veterinary checks and controls, including the financing of veterinary checks and, last but not least, the regulation of the database. A more detailed review also suggests that this is an extremely important process, which is intended to ensure, above all, food security both in Slovenia and in the internal European market. In the harsh comparison between the law currently in force and this law, which is to be enforced by adoption in the National Assembly, we find the following. If, in the present law, when we adopted it, we have found that more has been given in the law, it is likely that the veterinary administration of the Republic of Slovenia and, in particular, the Director of Veterinary Administration have been given too much authority, today we can talk about the fact that, in fact, the veterinary administration is not in the right form in this law, even less so, the influence of the Director himself or we can talk about the veterinary profession being put on the sidelines by this law. Most of the most important decisions in this law will be made by the minister or minister. We can almost see this in more than half of the articles in this law. The law itself has 109 articles, 53 articles say that more detailed conditions, criteria and similar things are adopted by the minister or minister herself. Even if we adopt this law in the National Assembly today, we have not done anything yet, we have left the key things to be done in fact directly to the political role and the decision of the Minister or Minister, who will only decide according to her opinion, and we fear that this judgment will often not be professional. It does not seem appropriate, however, for us to impose 53 articles on us by setting more detailed conditions, more precise criteria and so on, since Article 76 itself, for example, speaks of the Minister issuing the regulations provided for in the provisions of this Act and of the other regulations necessary for the implementation of this Act, including for the implementation of the rules of the European Community. So in one article, everything that the Minister is supposed to do is said. However, since this is particularly highlighted in paragraphs 53, we really wonder whether the content of these 53 articles is good enough. However, it is the content that speaks of authorised imports, equipment of establishments, animal rearing and possession, markings, transport of sick animals, identification of diseases, food production. In short, I stress that very serious issues will be decided by the Minister on the basis of this law, if so adopted, alone. However, if this law did not have too much consequences, we have also submitted supplements to the law. We want to maintain the licenses or registration in the Register of Veterinary Veterinars of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also a European category, if we can call it that. We would like to redefine the review of an approved veterinarian as it is a minimum of one year’s annual review, free of charge for the holder of the animal. All operators of veterinary activities [[End warning sign]] they must provide the required data and we want to ensure that part of the costs for this data are provided from the budget [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u157	Your time is running out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u158	We believe that these supplements will make the law much more suitable for implementation in practice, so we propose that [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Alojz Sok will give his position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u160	I welcome Mrs Minister and Director of the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia very much. In this time plan, we are slightly ahead of criticism that government representatives are not the result. I have already said in the Committee's opinion that this law is technically extremely demanding that this law governs in a somewhat specific way and differs from the legislation that we have adopted so far and does not allow some of the will that has been talked about before me, because in key matters the Ministry will have to take into account the regulation of the European Union, Community rules are true. It is for the agricultural sector, in particular for the veterinary field, that this is regulated by the common rules laid down at the level of the European Commission. I had previously touched Article 6, and I was running out of time, so I would now like to draw attention to some other articles. There was a great deal of debate on Article 9 on whether it should continue to be certified, especially for those species where registers are not definitively established. The opinion of the majority of the Committee was that registers should be highlighted as soon as possible and that this can be done as soon as possible, but that veterinary health certificates are definitely due, whether it was a promise or not. I have already said that we have talked about this many times in the previous term. Then there was a lot of debate about Article 13. This one's talking about an emergency slaughter. It seemed right for us to regulate this area in such a way, although some felt differently that the nearest registered slaughterhouse had to offer emergency assistance, this in the veterinary field comes in the form of an emergency slaughter. In particular, it is a matter of how to deal with traffic accidents. We know that in the past some slaughterhouses have been defending themselves from rejecting this, but for reasons of humanity it is necessary to find a solution that is most appropriate, and therefore in this law we have written that the nearest registered slaughterhouse must, of course, offer this service against payment of costs. Now an instrument will also be given to the official veterinarian in order to refuse to do so, so that it can also take appropriate action. Then let me mention Article 16. Under this law, the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will provide basic education on infectious diseases. It seemed reasonable for us to write down in this law that all of those breeders who, at the time of the adoption of the law, have already provided livestock have a real bearing on the breeding business, so that we do not teach them again what they already know. At the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, the Slovenian vet gained both the meaning and the activities. But I can tell you that during this time some mistakes were made to go beyond the standards. If I mention only one here from this place. For two and a half years, we insisted on a health examination of the dairy population, one of which had to have a medical examination. These medical examinations, of course, cost the foster parents so much and so much. For two and a half years, we have spent proving to some in this country that raw milk is not food, but raw milk is food. And perhaps some superstandard in this area could also be mentioned here. As for New Slovenia, the Christian-Human Party, we will be the one to say once again that it is technically extremely demanding that it be complicated, otherwise in practice it will simplify certain matters in the field of bureaucracy, we will support this law, and we will also support the amendments tabled by the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Kramberger will give his position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Madam Minister, Madam Director of Veterinary Administration, colleague and colleague! I will briefly give the opinion of our parliamentary group on the law on veterinary criteria and compliance. As my speaker said a little earlier, we agree that this is a technically demanding law, alone and even within our parliamentary group. This is probably the first such case in Slovenian legislation when the National Assembly accepts it to summarize so many European acts into some kind of common regulation. It is right that we already know that the veterinary profession and the science of the profession before which this society is in general placed great responsibility in European society. In particular for the protection of foodstuffs of animal origin coming to the consumer's plate, both for human health and, of course, for animal health. In human health, I mean those diseases that are transmitted from animal to human and vice versa. In the period so far, we can find that the veterinary profession has done well, so that we have not encountered any disasters related to the disease or infections coming from food of animal origin. Of course, in the previous period we also had some so-called superstandards. I personally think, and in our Group of Members, we have been working all the time to unify these standards and to succeed in the service as much as possible to unify matters throughout the country. This has somehow failed us so far, and I hope that in the future it will be better not to see some standards in Murska Sobota different than in the New Town. This new law, which we will undoubtedly adopt and our parliamentary group will also support, will also support these amendments, which we have signed together with the two other parliamentary groups, I think it puts this Parliament and the ministry responsible for this area under great responsibility. Many things will be regulated by sub-legal acts, and here in the drafting of these sub-laws, he must also have the word of profession. For very quickly what has happened or has happened and may still be happening in European countries when they have been shaken by various affairs, I think of England. Four or five years ago, I had the opportunity to take a look at a farm that was cured by foot-and-mouth disease, and I vividly recall the owners of that farm, how very clearly the representatives of their veterinary administration said they had no good control and were not aware of the movement of animals at the right time. And now this law actually loses the physical control of the veterinary profession over the movement of animals. This is a European category, but I would point out that this matter must also be taken very seriously. Now the animals will be able to move from barn to barn, to slaughterhouse, but there is control, but from barn to barn, with documents, with passports from the register. As far as the health status of these animals is concerned, if not the other, the animals will be able to pass from breeding where they have status to breeding where there is no status. And what does that mean? Experts know. Colleagues and colleagues, our Group of Members, together with these amendments that we have co-signed, supported or voted in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Boštjan Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. We will support the proposed law in the Slovenian National Party. However, given that the government has joined us at today’s meeting, we would like to receive an answer. We are interested in the financial implications for 2006 and when the government intends to propose to the national assembly the veterinary law. The last promise, as I recall, was the end of March of this year. Now it's the end of September 2005 and the law is not heard of by the spirit. And given that the government has taken a certain minute, I hope we get these two answers at today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much. And the position of the SDS presented by Mr Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will be proposing a law that we believe is urgently needed, especially in the sense of equalising the conditions of farming with neighbouring countries [[There's only this segment in my mind.]] , backed up. We have always pointed out the senseless and unnecessary superstandards introduced in practice and legislation by the Law of 2001 which placed our breeders in a highly deprived position and caused them unnecessary costs, which further made the situation of cattle as our main industries more difficult. Sadly, these warnings have so far come across a deaf ear. And we have a law in front of us that eliminates these superstandards. In doing so, I would like to say immediately that we do not agree at the same time to replace these medical certificates by examinations of the breeds, in a flat-rate manner, at the same time. Therefore, we are also the authors and co-signatories of the amendment, which the frequency of the inspections, the method of carrying out the inspections, leave to the Minister, who will determine the frequency, method of carrying out the checks by means of the regulations, and will certainly take into account the epidemiological and general conditions which will indicate the need for these checks. I would also like to say that we are glad that this law changes the order of priority, if I may say so. In dealing with the veterinary field in the past period, consumers have taken the lead, which is certainly right and necessary, because we agree that this legislation is primarily intended to provide safe food. However, that she was in second place in front of breeders and users of veterinary services was certainly wrong, and this fact by the profession itself caused more harm than benefits, which I think the veterinarians will be able to convince themselves or already feel on their skin. We also fully agree that the veterinary regulation of the European is comparable and that what is a matter of the contract is summarised in this law on veterinary compliance and that the national veterinary regulations with the content left behind in 2001 of the adopted veterinary law. We will also try to draw as many parallels as possible in further consideration of this law and to pursue such a regime in the veterinary field, which will be fully or to the greatest extent comparable to the regulation of this area in neighbouring European countries. This is especially because our breeder is faced with competition coming from these areas. I would also like to say in particular that we fully support the Ministry's efforts, the Minister's efforts to regulate this area in a European comparable way, and I expect it to continue these efforts in the field of the treatment of so-called food of animal origin not intended for human consumption, or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u167	Time's running out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u168	slaughterhouse waste, this is the next area that urgently needs to be addressed [[....]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be guided by the amendment review of 26.9.2005. We're moving on to Article 6. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups and the amendment of the Social Democrats Group. Who wants a word? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Maybe I'm the order of the amendments first. I note that the content of the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group is far more distant from the content adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Therefore, we should also take this order into account when voting, so that somehow I appeal to the leadership, that when we vote on the amendments, let us first vote on a more remote amendment, because the Social Democrats Amendment speaks of the requirement and is free of charge for the holder of the animal. The other parliamentary groups, which have also tabled the amendments, leave the conditions for review and funding to be signed by the Minister, which is significantly closer to the current text set out in Article 6, paragraph 9. It is also written here that a more detailed scope, and so forth, is prescribed by a minister or minister. I expect that we will first vote on a more distant amendment. However, as regards the content of Article 6 and the need for a mandatory veterinary examination at least once a year or not, it is our opinion and, in particular, the expert opinion that this review is mandatory, not least it is not just our opinion, the opinion of the profession, but also Article 3 of the Council Directive, which prescribes the obligation of regular veterinary checks. These are holdings, centres and organisations that trade in animals or products. The solution adopted by the Committee is inconsistent with European rules and in particular reduces the security of supply of products on our market and also on the market within the EU itself, because, as we have said and found, this law also regulates intra-European trade. Therefore, these derogations are even less possible than they would have been due to some agreements or narrow interests that seek to overcome the profession. We are talking about at least once a year prescribing a mandatory examination, which, of course, is free of charge for the holder of the animal. This is a solution that, in our view, truly, for the first time, follows the EU criteria, provides food security, provides safety for the breeder and, above all, ensures better animal condition. I expect that this amendment will also be adopted, because this is really a very important issue here, whether we will continue to have this area in Slovenia as well as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Stan Pike, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. I myself will support the amendment to Article 6 proposed by the SDS, NSI and SLS. This is because it gives the Minister or the Ministry the opportunity to order when, how and how this regular review will be carried out, of course, in accordance with the European Community. I have always felt that we do not need to introduce superstandards and why we should introduce superstandards if some countries do not know this. However, if the Ministry finds that it is necessary to implement it and how it should be implemented, it shall be governed by a sub-legislative act. With this amendment, that is exactly what we allow the Ministry. We didn't say anything about personal responsibility. I think that we will all have to put more emphasis on personal responsibility together, because Europe knows this personal responsibility at all levels, and it is also somehow obliged for a farmer to follow the rules. Of course, he needs to be educated, given the opportunity to learn these rules. That is why I will support this amendment because, once again, I stress that I am giving an opportunity, given the state that the Ministry will prescribe how and when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In front of us are two reviews of the amendments relating to four of the same articles. I'll give you one comparison. In the second circuit of the congregation’s establishment, we proposed two different solutions: that one congregation be divided into two parts, or that one part of the congregation be separated. Then we argued about who was more responsible for the formation of two congregations. Here one could interpret similarly, even though two solutions were important at the time and today. On the agricultural committee itself, we have noted that the new law that we have before us has solved certain problems that we have warned Members of one and other parties, government and opposition, and that we have had a lot of veterinary problems. At least that's what I have to say for myself. This time the weight leaned slightly to the other side. The last time we concluded the amendments on the Agriculture Committee, we found that some of the things we have open to today in the form of two amendments could remain open. As also admitted by a colleague from the coalition party, it may be good to consider whether these solutions are really good enough not to leave open doors to unforeseen events that we have witnessed in Slovenia and elsewhere in Europe and the world, it may be good to support those solutions that are more comprehensive in solving these matters. It seems to me that, regardless of whether the Social Democrats are the opposition party, the solutions in the text of the Social Democrats are a little more consistent, more precise, final, than the proposal of the three parliamentary groups. I'd rather vote by supporting these, because in a week or two, we'll forget who proposed something, and it'll remain in the law of a solution that will last, I hope, for at least a few years. I have one comment, and I hope the Minister won't mind me. It says here that more detailed conditions should this amendment on the method of review and financing be adopted, the Minister shall prescribe in accordance with the rules of the European Community. I just said that this law is being passed for years. Perhaps it would suggest repair, Minister, because the new government, new times and so on, says, many years later, it may happen, I don't know if the minister will be able to prescribe more detailed conditions or if there is a need for a change of law. Since the law is at second reading, this option is likely to remain if this amendment is adopted. However, I say that I would rather have the amendment of the Social Democrats adopted. And we're going to get a marriage that will be more appropriate than the solutions we have so far, but some surprises are still possible, but I don't want them myself, probably nobody wants them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! The extra headaches usually do not hurt, they do not care enough, or if it is caused by human life, many people will have a headache. The amendments are both a step forward, for those who have previously advocated different solutions on the Committee are under the weight of the arguments and European comparability is a right, fair and correct step in the right direction. We are trying to remove the error from the committee today, but I must say that such support is worthy of the amendment of the coalition, that, of course, the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members is significantly better, more legal, and such an article as it should be in law and would probably be happy in Europe. We are likely to be visited by European veterinary inspectors before the end of this year and will then also review our legislation adopted and amended today. That is why I think we have the opportunity to make this Article the right way, with this amendment proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. But if, for some more political than professional reasons, this amendment does not go through, we will eventually have to tighten our teeth and say, in force, the devil of the fly eats, and also support a worse solution for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer and consumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I also welcome the law on veterinary criteria because it abolishes medical certificates because by establishing a register of animals there is no need for a veterinarian to write health certificates in the office. Veterinarians have a different attitude. With the proposed amendment to the coalition to ensure the inspection of the barn by the authorised veterinarian, the wolf will be full and the goat whole. Veterinarians will have a job and consumers will be provided with greater food safety. The farmer will open the barn once a year or, if necessary, the barn, especially if it is written in the law, since no farmer has ever resisted the law. Nevertheless, most farmers meet with vets several times a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. As regards the order of the first and second amendments, this sequence was determined by the legislative and legal service, which interprets that the first amendment which imposes or imposes on the regulation of the European Union is much broader, more relaxed and is therefore far more distant from the content of the law itself. Although our colleague Vebra is not here now, the law enforcement service has assessed it so that there will be no doubt about which amendment is first and which one is second. As far as these two amendments are concerned, the substantive difference between them is essential. In the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats, it is legal that at least once a year the economy must be examined by a veterinarian. I am also a veterinarian by profession, and it is hard to imagine that a veterinarian will first come into the barn and perform all the prevention, all the reproduction, then help with the delivery, also perform the necessary curate, and then once again a year with the authority of the country will come into this same barn and will perform some kind of examination and write some kind of report. In fact, when we oppose this amendment, I would also like to protect the veterinarians, because they will be in an extremely difficult situation - it is said that today I am doing this, and tomorrow I am going to carry out some kind of control. I don't see any real logic in that either. That is why we are parties to the ruling coalition because there are some concerns in the veterinary species, that some stables or breeds should not be visited once a year by a veterinarian and that this would be contrary to the Directive of the European Community. [[which number is written here, namely 90/425]] However, we have given the opportunity for the Minister to lay down the need for such checks and a method of financing in accordance with the rules of the European Community. Now, of course, this possibility is given in the law. I am also sure that this sub-law will regulate this in such a way that it is concerned in breeds where veterinarians always appear, they will not hesitate to allow them to look at those breeds which, in fact, if this is true, because of no argument, there is no real report on this, so that there is no rationality to this approach, that they are not duplicating themselves unnecessarily and are writing reports of any kind. But if it's all happening, all the records, all the interference already in the records of the service veterinarian. So it's not logical that then once again I actually control myself, not the owner of the animal, but control myself and my work. Let me put it this way. Such a solution will not endanger the consumer's health care, as some of you say all the time. I am convinced that our veterinary service is doing its job very well to ensure that the whole medical situation is under control, that the country prescribes an annual regulation to implement certain preventions, that the State prescribes monotoring to determine the health status, residual residues, antibiotics and I do not know what else, both in animals and foodstuffs. All of this, I am sure, and in New Slovenia we believe that this is the case, it is sufficient that Slovenia will also be able to present the health status of the veterinary inspection that comes to us from Dublin and ensure that in Slovenia the breeds are under control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Perhaps a little non-veterinary view of the whole matter and one view, which will probably be of an attempt to make a direct commitment after carrying out the checks on breeds, annually, directly enter into the law a little clarification of matters. It is generally known that a veterinarian has already written medical certificates in offices located in veterinary stations for 5 years without seeing or reviewing the actual health status of the animal subject to this certificate, which is issued at the seat of the veterinary post to the veterinarian holding the licence. This was for our breeders, for our farmers only an extra unnecessary cost. One illustration. To Bologna is a village on the outskirts of Menina Mountain, 500 meters of airline had to take cattle to pasture. Law enforcement required that owner of those six cows, so I'm gonna say that he went first to Jelec 25 kilometers to get the medical certificate that the vet wrote to him. He paid a lot for this certificate and travel costs should be included. With this certificate, he returned so that he could take the cows to pasture. The procedure was repeated when the cows had to be brought back to the barn in the autumn. Such a way of caring for animal health and taking care of safe food has cost our foster parents between 600 and 800 million tolars a year. This has led to concerns, without open debate, without arguments, that the current medical certificates that we have suspended have simply been replaced by this breed review because, on the other hand, as we have heard from the predecessor, we have a bunch of preventive checks that the state has determined in terms of the health care of humans and animals, these so-called communicable diseases, then there are monitoring and could also be listed. I believe that it is also the intention of the law to transfer responsibility for what is put on the market under the new law under the European Treaty to breeders. We wanted to stress in particular with the amendment the responsibility of the Minister or the current Minister of Agriculture or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and we are convinced that the regime, as proposed, is better than it was previously mentioned in Article 6 or than you would like to introduce it with an amendment. I think it should be welcomed that the health status of our herd is good, but if monitoring or veterinarians detect the occurrence of any infectious or other diseases, this amendment opens the way for the Minister to review the breeding of a particular type of animal for certain breeds more frequently, even monthly, if necessary, and with one and only objective: to strengthen the care for safe food, which is essential, the only thing we follow when adopting this legislation and which is ultimately signed with the contract and we need to summarize and implement with 1.1.2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Kramberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This amendment, which has also been signed by our Group of Members, I think is a good solution to this dilemma: review yes or no. In the dictates of this sixth paragraph, Article 6 literally adopts Council of Europe Directive 90/425. I must also make it very clear that there is a very high responsibility here for the veterinary administration or the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food for the sub-legislative act to be followed on the basis of this sixth paragraph. Here, as I said before, I expect that the profession will have a word and that there will be no "anti-administrative" decision here. All this time, a few years ago, it's this one, I'm gonna say, like a vet, chasing a vet. But I also have to say in the same breath that part of the profession is responsible for it, because of those who are so and elsewhere. But just like some people in this house and outside this house want to present this expertise, it's not true. Veterinary has always worked for the good of the farmer and for the good of agriculture and there is nothing agriculturally harmful to the veterinary. That's what I have to say. About administration. Colleagues and colleagues! See what is happening in other areas alongside the administration now. What acrobatics are happening to these unfortunate GErks. For one square meter or I'll say one or we're sending mail from the agency for agricultural markets and rural development to the farm and back from the farm twice or three times. And here is the drive of no more experts, engineers, university-graduated engineers, agronomists and zootechnicians who are servicing this matter. And to whom in honor? To know if any plot is that large, or maybe it has a few square meters more and or how much after that unfortunate Nupa is infested. So I'd like the border to have the same vats. The amendment tabled by counterpart Janko Weber gives a very clear picture of who will do these reviews, how they will be financed and in which species this will be carried out. This proposal is not bad, but I think that this proposal, which we have signed by the three parliamentary groups, is better from this point of view because it is broader and imposes a great deal of responsibility on the veterinary administration and the ministry. I think that this is the first one, and we will probably vote on it first, and it must be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor. I would warn you that we should focus more on the amendments to Article 6 not on the general debate on the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your warning as well. I will try to stay within two amendments, but I will also agree that we may already be arguing over a shadow and that it is pointless to do so here. These two amendments are such that it may be possible for the Minister to copy the text of the amendment of the Social Democrats in a sub-legislative act. This also confirms what colleague Kramberger says. The last sentence that speaks of financing this work of veterinarians may remain open. And there is a possibility for us in the National Assembly today to decide whether to pay the state, or whether, later on, the Ministry, together with the professional services, decides to pay the state or not, but for this solution of the social Democrats, you are colleagues, when you were in opposition, always taking over that as many things as possible that arise in such a way, that the vet was in danger of very much standing, I am among those who are always a little more critical to the veterinary, and that things will be resolved as they are proposed here. We can decide one way or another, and, of course, the ministry will do its own thing, and how much money it will have will be financed by veterinary services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I will also follow this Article 6 in the debate. The essence of this Article is how professional and the state provides control. In previous discussions, people who are not veterinarians have heard such populist things that they do not hold. To be properly informed, I'd say the following. This country has a medical certificate and introduced these passports at a time when cases of foot-and-mouth disease and BSE have emerged across Europe. The issue of certificates and passports had no other purpose than to provide records and control. And never and never in this country would this record have been established as it is today if the vet hadn't done it. Simply other services are so frequent and at those moments they do not come to the farm and also have, given that we are trained by the veterinarians, we also have certain knowledge that we can communicate this to farmers in such a way that they too understand the essence of it. How much does a farmer's medical certificate cost? Today it costs a farmer's medical certificate for one adult cattle, a horse, 324 tolars, and 162 tolars for one calf. Talking about all the other numbers is irrelevant because it just isn't. However, if the breeders require a superstandard service, they issue this certificate at their home, and it costs to issue a 1900 tolar certificate plus that fee. We were practical. Each medical certificate shall be valid for 10 days and, as mentioned by Mr Franz Sušnik, the certificate has been valid for 90 days. The owner can get it in the veterinary clinic and then on an occasional visit or on the spot, but no additional paper is required to return from the mountain, no path. I must also say that the bovine register works in 99.9 cases perfectly and flawlessly, and this automation and all the records are taken care of. Another problem, which is and will be serious if any of the serious infectious diseases occurs to us, whether it be foot-and-mouth disease or avian flu, will be a problem, and we do not yet have adequate and complete control over pigs and smallpox in this country. However, in the case of pigs and fines, the amendment, as proposed by colleagues of the Social Democrats and Mr Weber, is better and more effective as it advocates certification and establishment and assistance in the establishment of records. And that's all this is about. More than a farmer, these passports and medical certificates have so far become a state and the state must decide for itself what is more important to it. I'm sure if there's a problem, then you'll be watching that movie again when the lambs shut up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber has another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u190	Thank you. I would just like to point out once again that the Council of Europe Directive already prescribes and requires a regular and official veterinary examination. This cannot be avoided if we want food to come to the European market and thus to Slovenia. Our amendment says that if anything is mandatory, then the state should pay for it. And that is the essential difference between the amendment of several parliamentary groups and the amendment of our parliamentary group. In addition, we would like to point out that not every veterinary examination carried out during a tour and for some purpose is an official veterinary examination. Thus, it is impossible to generalize just as it has been said. And I repeat, it is also not good that the Minister, because she has this in 53 articles, decides on very important matters. I think it is important that we decide some things here in Parliament, and we know what we are dealing with. However, if the Minister decides to do so, she will, of course, make a full decision based on the current judgement or on some interest that he will then take over. And that's not good, especially in the veterinary field.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u192	Just one more sentence to it. Veterinary inspection or, if you like, official veterinarians are present today in the entire chain - it is said, in barns those who perform veterinary services on the basis of concession and in slaughterhouses and food-processing establishments official veterinarians. Official veterinarians working in these processing establishments and slaughterhouses have a specific requirement for what they must do there. It is specified exactly what needs to be examined in the carcass of bovine animals, what needs to be examined in the carcass of pig halves, if you want, in poultry, in all species of animals whose lymph nodes need to be cut, how they are cut, what examination is done. Talking about the consumer being exposed from now on, I don't know, to such and such a danger that such and such infectious diseases will occur is completely pointless. Gentlemen, you can convince those who do not know these procedures. But those we have worked both on the ground and then on the inspection, which we have given all these procedures through and also finally landed, if you will, in politics, and those we cannot convince about such matters. But I'm saying that these things need to be settled meaningfully, rationally. I agree with those who say that these things need to be levelled as they are in the EU, for the same reason that we will not place our farmers in a much more subjugated position, such as farmers in neighbouring Austria. That's all this is about. If we do this, of course, we are simply not competitive on this common European market. If we do that, then we're squirming ourselves. Once again, I say that, through such an adopted amendment to this Article, there will be an opportunity for these checks to be prescribed if necessary. However, if it is not necessary, I do not see the logic and sense, nor in our parliamentary group, to legislate and prescribe something, to do something that they do not do elsewhere in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 84 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and the amendment of the same content of the Social Democrats Group. Who wants a word? That's Article 84. To remind you, at the end of point 4 of the first paragraph, a dot is deleted and the text 'and to be entered in the register under the Veterinary Act' is added. If no one wants a word, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 88 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u194	This law also genuinely regulates the regulation of the database and it is very important that all operators of veterinary activities have adequate equipment and also adequate personnel, which can then store the prescribed data in electronic form and allow access to databases. Since this is a relationship between operators and the veterinary administration, it is very important that this equipment is truly compatible or that it is possible to process and use this data with the slightest effort. As with other matters prescribed by the State, i.e. the veterinary administration is an integral part of the national administration, it is appropriate that, of course, the State also co-finances the acquisition of equipment and the maintenance of this database and in particular the archiving of this database, which is then used by VURS in its work. The amendment adopted by the Committee refers to the fact that a more detailed content in this article is also prescribed by the Minister on this subject, so that the content which the Minister may prescribe is here, because it does not directly affect the decision, a professional decision on the ground, but how this data will be processed and what equipment. Therefore, it seems to me that this solution, which has been adopted on the Committee and with our amendment, is extremely well complemented, so I propose, of course, that it be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I would like to say that the amendment under order number 2 tabled by the parties to the ruling coalition, as well as the amendment to Article 84, was essentially based on a proposal from the Veterinary Chamber. Of course, I would like to deny this evidence somehow if it did not have any part in the writing of this law and had no effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u197	I'm closing the debate. We are moving forward and I am putting the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group and SDS, NSI and SLS' parliamentary groups to a new 106a. Article 1 Anybody want a word? Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you. If the scope of this law is to end medical certificates, this decision will create a very large gap in the area or in those animals where traceability is not yet ensured. Therefore, in the amendment we propose that certification should remain with those animals where traceability is not yet ensured in Slovenia. The current practice, the introduction of certification, has also shown that it was possible in a relatively very short time to establish high quality surveillance or traceability, and it would certainly be good to maintain this practice until we have fully completed the procedures on animals such as pigs, poultry, horses and other economic animals, where the relevant registers have not yet been established or the traceability has not yet been ensured. By adopting our amendment, we retain certification in this area because traceability is not yet ensured, precisely because it will be established as soon as possible and that we will be able to speak truly about the very high level of consumer safety and the health condition of animals going to the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Master Sayovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u200	It is a matter of indirect control and of which we have already discussed today. However, it is a fact that these two amendments are of course similar, but the amendment of the Social Democrats in the second article of this coalition distinguishes it from being more concrete and ensures that, in one year, the registers will be established with the help of certification, significantly faster, for I am responsible in this place that as good a register as we can establish it by means of VURS certificates in one year for the areas of poultry and pigs, it cannot and will not be established to such an extent and in such a quality, because it is impossible to do so simply on the ground without it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you very much. So if the amendment proposed by the Social Democrats were adopted, this amendment would, of course, constitute one in practice. I can put it that way, one big mess. So something without certification, it is said, especially when it comes to bovine animals, while other animal species would be subject to certification and, of course, also through sanctioning, it was actually carried out within the framework of punishment, unless the owners of domestic animals behave that way. That would, in practice, mean, like I said, one big mess. For this reason, of course, I will not support the amendment under number one. We will support the amendment we tabled. Then, of course, we also expect the VURS to establish these registers as soon as possible. We won't be angry if it's sooner than a year ago than the marriage says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u204	I would like to point out that there is no confusion at all, but above all, it is order. So what Mr Sok was saying is really incorrect. In particular, where the register for bovine animals is established, it is a service for the identification and registration of animals, this traceability due to the operation of this service is regularly monitored and, of course, there are no problems. And we don't interfere in this area at all. However, we are regulating an area where traceability has not yet been established and we claim that, of course, this traceability can, of course, be ensured more quickly than if we put an end to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or no later than 20.50 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day - this is a second defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on social protection. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed William Rezman. With regard to this law, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposed bill to William Rezman for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I will try to explain briefly why and what we supported on the committee of those who were signatories to this law. This is a law that changed the previous Social Protection Act in the previous term two years ago and also entered into force almost two years ago. During the interim period, much damage was done to individual municipalities, according to our assessment. It was therefore obvious that the mayors and associations of the congregations, which are representative, must do something to change this law. The reactions were therefore such that a number of congregations decided to initiate a constitutional review of the constitutionality of the individual articles of this law. However, the Group of Members, which was composed of members of the coalition and members of the opposition, prepared its short but effective proposal for reforming the law. The government replied to this proposal in such a way that it assessed that the proposal was not appropriate, either on a substantive or financial basis, but that those of us who were signed under the proposal were not, not before and not now, in agreement. To make it so much more embarrassing, on the same day, the government has put forward a new proposal, its own or its proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on social protection. At that time, the decision of the Constitutional Court was also known. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that no change and no new task imposed on the congregations and that the municipalities do not decide or co-decision in any way, cannot be imposed on the municipalities. Secondly, no such obligation may be imposed on the municipalities unless this obligation is followed by financial resources to carry out such a task. Since the deadline for eliminating this non-compliance has been set for six months, there has been an incident where the government should prepare a new law and eliminate this unconstitutionality, at the same time as the deadline for the entry into force of the new law proposed by the Members. That would actually make a little sense. This would coincide in time, so we have proposed two Members and Members of Parliament. Firstly, we agree to withdraw or support the proposal for a decision that this law is not adopted. And secondly, the government withdraws its bill under certain conditions. In fact, provided that what has been proposed in the bill of Members is adapted, adopted, and then incorporated into the new law, which aims to be – this is assured – more extensive only through systemic solutions. So, because a new law is being drafted, which is supposed to deal with the issue more broadly, because a new law is being drawn up, which, according to the committee's assurances, also includes requests from Members who signed the bill, so we left the way open so that there are no procedural obstacles to the adoption of a new law. This does not mean that Members and Members would agree with the government's statement that our proposal for a law was inadequate both on a substantive and financial basis. This means that we have been cooperative enough to allow the government to adopt and supplement our solutions and adopt a more comprehensive bill. So, under such conditions, we agreed that the Committee had voted on a decision that said that the law was not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Breda Pecan has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u208	Hello! Thank you for your word. The Group of Social Democrats does not support the decision adopted by the Committee, particularly for one reason. When we compare our proposal for a law amending the Social Protection Act tabled by Members with a bill tabled by the Government, there is a very large difference in the part about the family assistant. Regrettably, the figures are not so noticeable that they are particularly explained by the Government's negative opinion on the bill that we are considering today. In fact, the government proposal for the financing of a family assistant provides for funds intended for home aid at a rate of 34,000 tolars which the government does not pay to the beneficiary if it receives institutional protection or assistance at home. In this case, the government has even saved money at the expense of municipalities, which on average pay about $128,000 for a family helper. Which means that it is a good 94,000 tolar difference, which, in particular for some municipalities - and this government clearly acknowledges in its opinion or position that the distribution of people in need of a family assistant and chosen by an authority, the municipality that pays the service does not give any right at all to cooperate in this, so that some municipalities with many more special needs may even have a financial breakdown. So, this way of solving the problem, as proposed by the government in its proposal, is said to be trying to silence the municipalities, which find that the way in which the financing of the family assistant has been made or the decision to finance the family assistant has been made, so that the burden has gone completely to the municipalities, and now not one third of the funds are covered by the government - we believe - is unfair, unfair and, of course, we will not support the decision that the national assembly would declare the proposed law inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Capuder on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposed Act amending and supplementing the Social Protection Act, submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed William Rezman, sought to resolve the problems of the municipalities they had with the funding of a family assistant. As the government also recognized the problems that had led to the amendments to the Social Protection Act, which came into force on 30 January 2004, it had itself tabled amendments to this Act, which were intended to deal more broadly with certain social protection issues. At the same time, in July this year, the Constitutional Court issued a decision on those parts of the current Act on Social Protection which are not in conformity with the Constitution. However, since neither of us nor the other draft amendments to the law solves the issues brought to our attention by the Constitutional Decision, we have unanimously adopted on the home labour body that the proposed law, which has been tabled by a group of Members, is not suitable for further consideration. We also support such a committee decision in New Slovenia. In New Slovenia, however, we expect the Christian People's Party to send new amendments to the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible to the Social Protection Act, which will contain all the appropriate solutions referred to by the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Kristijan Janc will give his position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u212	President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! With the last amendment to the Social Protection Act, this is, of course, still in the previous term of the National Assembly, social services or the right to help at home have become a family assistant, which, as a right, can be used by a full-year person with severe mental impairment or a difficult movemental disability. Thus, the content of this social service is certainly positive, and in practice it is very quickly established from the congregation to the congregation in different ways. This is also due to the possibilities offered by these services to unemployed persons. It is true, however, that in a normative and cost-effective manner, this right was defined or determined by the State, while the financing of the latter by law was transferred to the municipal budget, which was a strong financial surprise or burden for the individual municipalities. Such an approach by the State vis-à-vis the municipalities has grown strong in recent years, placing municipal budgets increasingly impossible for development purposes. It is therefore understandable that a group of proposers of this law who in a rather simplistic manner wanted to amend only Article 29 of the Law, to transfer the financing of the family assistant to the State budget without making the necessary other amendments to the laws defined by the legislation as social services, such as Article 46 of this Act. At the same time as those who proposed this law, a group of municipalities gave this legal obligation to the municipalities in question to the Constitutional Court, which, by a decision on the request, ordered the legislator to remove or amend the current situation. In this way, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of preparing such a proposal for amendments and supplementing the Social Protection Act, which will process and resolve this issue in a comprehensive manner. It would be good for the government to take into account the comments made by the Social Chamber of Slovenia in the consideration of this law at the national working body of the National Assembly. From these points of view, the Slovenian People's Party's Club will support a proposal for a decision which was forwarded to the National Assembly by the national working body when, in the second reading of the draft law, it is assumed that the Ministry or Government of the Republic of Slovenia will fix or replace the text of its proposal for a law amending the Law on Social Protection, which it submitted to the National Assembly for the procedure at the shortest possible time. This proposal does not resolve the issue of a family assistant in the extent and content of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect and expect that the Government's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Social Protection will be reviewed and adopted as soon as possible, allowing municipalities to prepare their budgets in a timely manner, in which there will be no burden on the financing of social rights or the services of the family assistant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will give his position to the Slovenian National Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Social Protection Act, which I will call it, is, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, suitable for further consideration. If, for another reason, it is because it corrects what the Constitutional Court wrote in July this year, which specifically decided that the first paragraph of Article 28 of the existing law - that is, not this proposal - is inconsistent with the Constitution and even ordered the National Assembly to remove the disagreement within 6 months, that is to say, no later than January. We have been proposing, but those who have been signed on this proposal, four of the original five, have also written in this spirit. Not only that, but, above all, it would be good for this proposal or decision to be designed differently than it is. So that he is suitable, there are, of course, some flowers that can give us thought. For example, how nice it is to have the right to family assistants decided by state institutions and to be paid by the congregations. That's great. I'll order a Ferrari and someone will pay for it. I don't know who that makes sense. Otherwise, those municipalities that have been living in economic and political transition since Slovenia's independence and which you have - but I do not underestimate anyone - at least more than 5,000 people, you probably already know that it is going well, at least for us in Trbów - this is a comparison that I can and must give - almost 80% of the municipal budget for social transfers. And if I say on average that 3 billion is an annual budget, it's 2 billion and a half for social transfers. For development, 500 million remains at 3 billion. This percentage of social transfers is growing. I just want to know how long the congregation will receive from the country countless decisions that it will have to finance itself. Of course, there are still many important things to be said in this law and in all the debates that have been. But these five minutes we have at our disposal are not meant to do so. I'm surprised, say. No, I'm not surprised by the opinion of the Slovenian Social Chamber, which would not be a dick, not a mouse. While they agree that such a law as the first four of us have proposed is good and 'fine', it is not quite good and 'fine' that we should do something a little differently. Great, that's the perfect solution. The social council would like to have solved social problems, I'd like to have them. It encourages and suggests that we help everyone long and long. But when we do one experiment, which I don't think is so bad, of course they put their hands away. Of course, such a proposal has financial implications. What is the proposal for a new law that speaks of financing or financial assistance, however, without financial implications? It can only have two to take and have positive financial implications, so the state keeps the money. Or give it to him. Then it has negative financial implications for a country that likes to say that it has local communities and that they belong to this country when they need to be obeyed when they need to be helped, at least in such cruel or critical cases as these, of course not. Last but not least, one great case has been told on a committee somewhere about how things are being resolved. When, God forbid, a young person is so badly affected — perhaps by a motor or a car — that you cannot put him in a home of pensioners, not in a hospital, not in a rehabilitation institution, nor can a poor congregation lastly help him. So, Slovenian National Party, thanks for the warning, evaluates and is confident [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u215	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members, Mr Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u216	Thank you. Let me briefly say what and why it supports or does not support the DeSUS Group or will be particularly careful when we deal with the proposal for a new law that the government is currently preparing. We will support the decision adopted on the Committee by 12 votes in favour and with no objection. It's probably the only logical solution. We do not support this decision because it would have been excellent in content and would not have been possible to make a different decision, but because the business provisions do not allow a different decision to be drawn. If, of course, we want to give opportunity and freeway to the law that is now being amended and which should be better and more comprehensive, including what we ourselves have proposed. At the same time, it must be said that we regret all the time we have lost, the many meetings that have been necessary to convince us, even though it has been - I think - government representatives too - clearly what this is about. We regret the 100 million tolars that some congregations had to pay, but they were not prepared to do so, and even less they did not receive the necessary compensation. Once the new legislation is in place, we will actively cooperate. We will make sure that we warn that the new law would no longer have provisions that would go to the detriment or burden of the congregations. We will ensure that it is no longer possible, as it has been possible in the past two years, that, because of the situation in which some congregations are located, additionally and excessively burdened one another, while others, in other words, are subsidized because appropriate consumption or appropriate consumption is divided in line with the linear principle of such problems, which were to be financed. We will also make sure that the status of a family assistant is thoroughly and better considered, which is now such that we do not actually know exactly how to define it. And even those who are family helpers, even though they have found work to find some kind of employment, are not satisfied because they do not know where their workbook is, but not how they can receive credit, which would otherwise come from work and not from anything else. We will therefore oppose the reinstatement of unjustified differences, which are individual protectors, those in institutional protection, placing them in a better position, in a worse position - pardon - than those who have received the help of a family assistant. In fact, some had to contribute part of the costs themselves and others not to the services they were serviced. DeSUS will also ensure that there is no further ambition after the replacement commitments, as declared in the government report. We will ensure that municipalities can also co-decision sovereignly or in cooperation with the State in these services and in the payment of these services. But we are for the service to be maintained. For this service has positive effects, and for those who have been unemployed, they have received employment, as for those who have received new services that were not previously available to them. We will therefore support the adoption of this Decision and thus help to create new legislation in the field of social protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present his position on behalf of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u218	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members. The Social Protection Act, as a system of legislation in the field of social protection, regulates the right to financial social assistance and social protection services. Some social security services are provided by the State and some by municipalities. The Social Protection Act was passed in 1992 and has since been revised three times more significantly. The new law which introduced the new social right, the right to choose a family assistant, entered into force with 1.2.2004. The amendments to the Social Protection Act that we are considering today bring about a change in the financing of family assistants. The basic objective of the proposed amendments to the law is to establish a system for financing the right of a family assistant, by which the municipalities will be burdened by the funding of a family assistant from the municipal budget. In the constitutional procedure on 7.7.2005, the Constitutional Court decided that the first paragraph of Article 28 of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Social Protection [[Uh-huh. I. RS, No. 2/04]] contrary to the Constitution and ordered the National Assembly to remove the non-compliance found within six months of the publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has ensured that, on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, a new comprehensive proposal for amendments and the addition of the Social Protection Act will be prepared, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the decision of the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The LDS position will be given by Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u220	Nice hello to you all! Inadequate regulation of the right of a family helper in the current law has long been pointed out by the congregations. Since the Ministry was not prepared to solve the problem, which was increasingly a financial burden on the municipalities, some Members tabled their own amendments to the law, by which we wanted to point out that the transfer of the power to finance this right to the municipalities was carried out inadvertently and, as the Court of Auditors later found, also illegal. By law, the State has transferred the family helper’s right to the congregations, which is totally inappropriate and irregular, and has significantly extended it, since, in addition to disabled persons, the elderly can benefit from the right and the municipalities must, without any influence, not participate in the procedures for granting this right, simply provide funds. The problem arose because the financial assessment was planned completely wrong and the municipalities were extremely unevenly burdened. The Ministry also made a mistake in assessing the necessary resources, since they are already significantly higher than the estimates. However, more than 300 new outstanding deposits await a decision. It is interesting that in the first reading of the proposal, the Ministry of Justice has very harshly and inadvertently rejected the consideration of the initiative and has assessed that the municipalities are merely avoiding their duties, since this would be a substitute obligation of municipalities for institutional protection, which should not have financial implications. The Constitutional Court has clearly ruled in its decision that this cannot be compared and levelled. The financial situation of the recipient will also need to be taken into account. Nor is it true that the municipalities are unsocialally oriented, since in its opinion the government has assessed that the municipalities do not spend the funds for social activity in full so that they do not even have the resources left for social work. At the same time, it has shown - I can say - the lack of knowledge of the problems, since obviously they do not have an overview of what all municipalities finance in the social field. Let me mention this from the work of the humanitarian societies Karitas, the Red Cross, the public kitchens, the granting of municipal social assistance, the co-financing of many preventive activities, the fight against drugs and the like. The Constitutional Court ordered the Ministry in its decision that all irregularities should be eliminated by the end of the year. We hope that the applicants will be able to make appropriate amendments to the law in accordance with the constitutional decision. In this respect, it is recalled that the Constitutional Court has also made it clear that this municipality has been financially damaged, but has not annulled the rights of the beneficiaries of the articles due to the protection of the rights of the beneficiaries. In the LDS, we propose that the government, with changes, re-authorisation of both funding and allocation procedures be transferred to the country, as this is a typical social security service. This will also be the best solution because the burden of the congregations is not equal, so all the different solutions will be full of bureaucratic complications and more difficult. We also note that the Government's current proposal does not take account of the Constitutional Court's decision, so we cannot support the Committee's decision, since we do not have the assurance that the Government will in fact regulate the family assistant's issue legally and correctly, as the Constitutional Court's decision has it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u221	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of a half-hour vote after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or - now I will not say - at 20.50 at the latest, but probably sooner. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the time of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Administration - the Final Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of Public Administration. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. Please! Before that, Mr. Secretary, would you like a word as a motioner? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u222	Dear Mr. Vice President! Messengers and Members! This is a brief amendment to the State Administration Act. But I wouldn't say it's irrelevant. The government is carrying out a number of projects aimed at improving administrative services for citizens and businesses. Our guide is that the administration must function as a quality service for individuals, i.e. for citizens and for businesses, for companies. That this is not just a theory, proves a series of quite successful concrete solutions such as - say - the start of the VEM project [[all in one place]] . So the arrangements for all cases for the start-up of the business of an independent entrepreneur in one place, the introduction of administrative certifications, with 1.1. year the abolition of local competences, the abolition of car stickers and other types of simplifications. According to our calculations, savings for customers so far amount to 820 million at the annual level. In this context, e-government projects are also ongoing, i.e. the provision of information and public administration services via the Internet. All the bases, legal and technological, are given for this. In this context, in the context of the direction of the administration to the user and in the context of the E administration, we are also amending the State Administration Act. I would point out once again, it is not a big change, it is not a minor one. First of all, there is a provision on the use of languages of national communities, Italian and Hungarian, in bilingual areas. This is a provision which goes towards a more friendly state administration towards both national communities, Italy and Hungary. The provision to date was disputed in this element that it provided for the use of a minority language in the event that the party turns out to be a member of the national community and only in the procedure for which it is concerned. Now the law is expanding and also foresees the general operation of administrative authorities in bilingual areas in both official languages. General business means forms, means notices, means poster boards and everything else. Secondly, the law contains a solution whereby, in the event of the absence or detention of both the Minister and the Secretary of State at the request of the Minister-General, the Government may authorise the Director-General to represent the Government in the context of its work area in the work of the National Assembly. This provision has been discussed extensively on the home working body. I must stress in particular that it is listed as an exception, so that this is taken into account in the case of absence and detention, so that it is not a principle by which the government in Parliament would be represented by directors of the Directorates, but rather a situation where there is simply no other solution when sickness or other important tasks occur, for example, as regards the operation of the European Commission in Brussels or something similar, but in the consideration of the National Assembly, any minor change in the law will be less important, more professionally conditioned and so on. Thirdly, the law clearly regulates the powers of administrative inspection. The administrative inspection has recently focused primarily on the supervision of the business of the administration with the parties, including on the supervision of administrative procedures, but in particular on compliance with the standards of business with the parties. On the inside, it faces some obstacles, such as the fact that the tax administration has not allowed access to the administrative business documentation, to customer transactions, that administrative inspection does not have a basis for looking into documents containing tax secrecy. Practically all the documents available to the tax administration under the procedures are tax confidentiality. Therefore, this law now clearly states that in such cases the inspection is also authorized to look into the documentation. Fourthly, the law contains a special chapter on electronic management. Even now, laws in the field of administration, in particular the General Administrative Procedure Act, on electronic commerce, are modern in front of all other procedural laws and allow for a large extent the electronic functioning of the state administration. In this law we regulate the so-called central information, communication infrastructure and give it a legal basis. This infrastructure is provided for all public administrations, as well as local communities, if the Ministry of Public Administration so wishes. This central infrastructure means a network, a fast communication network, an internal public administration network. It means an information system for the acceptance of applications, service and information, which allows for the submission of applications in electronic form and also for electronic service delivery, and also means the provision of an e-government portal, which is primarily a service portal and which will be renewed at the beginning of next year and will offer an expanded set of information and services to e-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Chairman. Well-known Minister, colleagues and fellow Members and Members of Parliament! At its 11th regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration as a working body. The draft law was tabled as an amendment by the Member of Parliament, Mr Porča, to Article 2 and an amendment to this amendment. The draft law itself was also addressed by the National Community Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Commission has sent a report to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as its parent working body, concluding that the Commission has taken note of the draft law and the provisions of the proposal and that it has no comments. The representative of the proposed Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, provided an additional explanation for the article on the draft law, under which he initially stressed that they wanted to contribute to modern and efficient, in particular users-friendly administrations and improve administrative services in this context and bring them closer to customers or users. He also presented a solution to enable the Government to be involved in exceptional cases, namely, in cases of the absence or detention of the Minister and the Secretary of State, at the proposal of the Minister-General, the power of the Director-General to represent the government in the context of his work in the National Assembly. The solution is being introduced with the aim of ensuring the Government's smooth participation in the work of the National Assembly, he further stressed. The representative of the legislative service made individual comments in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect to each article of the proposal, and further stressed that certain comments from their written opinion were duly taken into account in the Committee's proposals for amendments proposed by the proposer to the Committee on Admission. Members and members of the Committee have made the most reference to a provision whereby the Government would be able to empower the Director-General on a proposal from the Minister in the event of the absence or detention of the Minister and the Secretary of State. In the framework of its work area, it represents the government in the work of the National Assembly. The proposed provision was also accompanied by an amendment proposing the deletion of this provision, which was justified by the proposal by Mr Miran Potrč in particular: "Despite the arguments put forward by the proposer that the proposed provision would, above all, facilitate cooperation between the national assembly and the government, solutions to the presentation of the government in the national assembly should be based on the nature of the relationship between the government and the national assembly, which is mainly political. Therefore, only government officials can represent the government in the National Assembly, who have the power to present the government's political views and opinions on additional issues and proposals at the meetings of the National Assembly and its home labour bodies." Some members of the committee who supported the proposed amendment agreed with the amendment that the way in which this issue was addressed was inappropriate and that they had introduced both legal and substantive reasons, while also stressing that they are aware of the problems and some new circumstances affecting the current government's presence in the National Assembly, which is also due to our EU membership and to the new concept of the Civil Servants Act. However, given all the arguments they have cited, they propose a different way and approach in addressing this problem. On the contrary, opposition to the proposed amendment and support to the solution proposed by the Government was also given. In the end, additional questions were raised to the representative of the proposer, who also responded accordingly. Thus, the members of the committee adopted some of the proposed amendments, which were tabled by the proposer and also adopted a motion without a vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I invite you to stay behind the speaker stage and give your client's opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u226	In Novi Slovenija we support the solutions adopted by the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. It will be more appropriate to regulate the use of Italian and Hungarian as an official language in the management business. It is also more comprehensive to regulate the functioning of the Central Information and Communication Infrastructure and the possibility of managing a rapid public administration communication network through a public-private partnership model. The latter, the involvement of public and private capital, is very rational in view of the limited budgetary resources on the one hand and the possibility of close development and upgrading of the existing information and communication structure. In the New Slovenia Group, we support it, whether in further execution or in the form of a concessional relationship or in the form of a public procurement relationship. In particular, the selection process of the private partner will be important, in particular through a specificisation and appropriate call for conditions at quality and competitive prices and requirements for transparent cost allocation. Furthermore, our parliamentary group, which, like other citizens and citizens, act as customers in administrative procedures and also often cause us gray hair, also supports more precise provisions on administrative inspection. We hope that, at last, these will also lead in practice to avoid situations where we as customers are sent from door to door for individual certificates, although the body should not only be able to but also have to obtain them from the official records it has at its disposal. The only possibility that the administrative inspection will be able to verify this is that it will also have access to the files, which also entails a proposal for amendments and an amendment to the law. In fact, it will be possible to determine whether the procedure may be pending due to an incomplete role, mainly related to the inactivity of the administrative officer, or whether the procedure could come to individual data alone and continue with the administrative procedure. However, since it is not possible to establish on a flat-rate basis and to talk about poor efficiency on average, it is therefore the task of administrative supervision to identify specific infringements. Taking into account the modified way in which ministries are organised by reducing the number of State secretaries and partly unadapted business provisions, the reason why we do not oppose changes which will allow, in exceptional cases, in the case of the absence or detention of the Minister or State Secretary, the Government to be represented by the Director-General of the Directorate in the proceedings of the National Assembly in its field of work. As a party to the opposition's previous mandate, we are still aware of the government's relations - the National Assembly, the executive-legislative branch of power, in particular because of some under-appreciating experiences in the past mandate. However, we hope that this government has an honest purpose, so we do not see any change in the sense that it would try to exploit it, but rather as a tendency towards allowing the current part of the national assembly. In exceptional cases where both the Minister and the Secretary of State are detained at the same time, for example due to obligations in the bodies of the European Union, the Government will be represented by the Director-General of the Directorate. In the fact that the current government has decided to reduce the number of State secretaries from the previous slightly less than 70 to 30, it seems to us that the government is, in exceptional cases, empowered to represent the Director-General, more meaningful than to appoint state secretaries to supply. There is no evidence that directors would not be able to cooperate, but that practice itself rejects it. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group supports the proposed amendments and additions to the State Administration Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I next invite Mr Boštjan Zagorec to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the purpose of the law was possible and that it could actually contribute to the progress of the state administration and its de-liberation. If we look at some of the solutions proposed by the law - let's say - a comprehensive regulation of the functioning of the central information communication infrastructure and the possibility of carrying out a rapid public communications network through the model of public private partnership, effective control over the implementation of the rules of efficient organisation and friendly and efficient administrative management, and a number of such solutions could be found, which could be said to actually contribute to progress, the development of public administration and, above all, the approximation of public administration to people. However, the two regulations proposed by the law will somehow be in the eyes and broken - at least in our opinion - this good purpose of this law. The first - I will say - such a finding is a more appropriate arrangement for the use of both Italian and Hungarian languages in the management business. We believe that, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, this matter is already very well regulated under Article 62 of the Administrative Procedure Act and there is no need to regulate it in such a law and in such a way as is proposed to amend and supplement the Law on State Administration. Another issue that we find totally unacceptable is that, in the absence or detention of a minister or a secretary of state, the Director-General may represent a government in the context of his work in the work of the National Assembly. This is a matter which, at least for our Group of Members, is totally unacceptable. This is why we will also vote against the implementation of these amendments and additions, because the purpose of the government is not, in fact, visible to us what the Government's intention would be in this case. Either the Minister, or at least the Secretary of State as stated in the Rules of Procedure, should be present at a meeting of the National Assembly. We believe that this is a kind of underestimation of our work. And that's going to be replaced by the director. I'm afraid that, I don't know, the next change will be someone's next change if the director doesn't have time. We will slowly come to the conclusion that the goalkeepers from the ministries will propose laws and things that Members will have to and will be able to get an appropriate explanation. As I said, such underestimation of the National Assembly in the Slovenian National Party cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u229	Thank you very much, colleague Zagorec. The next is Mr Willi Rezman, who will present DeSUS's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u230	Thank you very much. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that this law or these changes do not bring about any substantial changes, nor do they bring about any radical changes, nor do they involve any specific intervention in the structure, organisation of the administration, or in the functioning of the administration. This is - this is us - more so for technical changes, more for better implementation of works at operational level, at the level of everyday developments, as well as stopping with other legislation. It is important that such is at least the stated intention of the government or the proposer to work towards the greatest possible functionality, the greatest possible operationality and the greatest possible kindness of our administration. And if anything more relaxed is allowed in this afternoon, let me say that this kindness becomes Janus' head, it has two faces. On the one hand, we try to be as friendly, as effective as possible, efficient administration. This is provided mainly by technical means. On the other hand, if I get a little more focused now, we will come to the point that we will be greeted kindly only by the smiles of the computer when we want to do something about the administration. I think we are going into a period of less manageability of technical and other means and we will have to bear in mind this aspect of the problem as well. However, we do not find the proposal to replace either the Minister or the Secretary of State with the highest government officials. We understand the embarrassment when we feel it ourselves when ministers and secretaries are overloaded with work with different meetings, with absence from travel abroad and similar, but this is something that is not exactly a rose stuck to the concept of the rule of law, even if it is only an exception. And a warning, which the legislature has also addressed to all of us, that this is not in accordance with the rules of procedure to follow, is probably worth considering. Last, let me ask myself, although we agree that it is also necessary to have good control over the implementation of the rules in the legal business in local communities. However, we ask ourselves whether the intention is that this control will be as instructive as possible, that it will be as much as possible in terms of training, preventive warning, or that it will become a police type of sanction as possible, which is unlikely to be overly friendly. For the friendly administration also includes those who perform administrative tasks, and we must also keep them in mind when we talk about how we will train administration and administrative services in the direction of as kind and effective as possible. Otherwise, the DeSUS Group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u231	Thank you so much for the introduction. Mrs Pozsonec has the floor to present the position of the Hungarian National Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! I therefore support the amended bill on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration. The provision of Article 1 which deals with the use of language in the administration and the procedures administered by the administration has also been addressed by the Commission for the National Community and has had no comments on it. Moreover, it strongly supports such solutions, because the proposed regulation is better than it has been in force so far. However, I would like to point out that an administrative inspector operating in a bilingual area should also be able to speak the language of nationality. However, central information and communication infrastructure relating to bilingual names should also be regulated in such a way that it is correctly written according to the spelling of the national language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek is next to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u234	Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support amendments and additions to the State Administration Act because these changes go towards the aim of transforming the state administration into a modern public administration, which will gradually become friendly and effective in improving and implementing administrative procedures for parties, citizens and legal persons. We support the efforts of the government and the competent minister who wants to bring the public administration closer to the citizens. As legislator, we strive to adopt laws that will be as systematic and effective as possible. Where are these changes coming from? The first amendment concerns the use of Italian and Hungarian in bilingual areas in the management of administrative procedures and in the operation of the state administration. The current practice and legislation has in particular been somewhat misplaced and, as such, has not fully taken into account the rights of indigenous national communities in their operations with the State Administration. The second amendment concerns the overall regulation of the e-government, which will have long-term positive effects, both in terms of the direction of the administration towards users and the provision of different services through different communication channels, as well as in terms of the legal arrangements for private sector cooperation within the framework of the public private partnership in the regulation, development and investment of the central information and communication infrastructure. The third important amendment concerns clearer provisions on the administrative inspection and its amended competent authorities in view of the new regulation of the general administrative procedure and administrative operations. This will ensure effective and quality control over the implementation of the new legislation, as it will allow administrative inspectors to see the documentation on administrative procedures, which is not now possible for them to safeguard tax confidentiality. This will remove the legal and bureaucratic barriers to the parties. However, the fourth important change is that, in exceptional cases, the absence and detention of the Minister and the Secretary of State, on a proposal from the Minister-General, empowers the Director-General of the Directorate to represent the government in the context of his work area in the work of the National Assembly. The current government has 15 ministers and 15 secretaries of state as a result of changes to the system's legislation and subsequent organisational changes. The government, however, had 15 ministers and 54 secretaries of state in its previous mandate. So a total of 69 state officials. However, since Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provides that the Government shall be represented in the State Assembly by a minister or a chairman of the Government Service, a State Secretary or a chairman of the Authority in the composition of the Ministry and also a Deputy Prime Minister of the Government Service, of course, with the relevant powers, the Government may represent more than 130 persons during the previous term of office. In the SDS Group, we support the proposed provision because it is very meaningful and life-saving and is towards a more effective part of the national assembly. It is the legislator's duty to adopt laws that will be systemically functional, so that in specific cases Members are as familiar with the content as possible, which ultimately means better decision-making. In the SDS Group, we believe that the provision of Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure allows for the proposed amendment. We will also probably support the amendment and harmonisation of that Article of the Rules of Procedure. To conclude, I would like once again to stress that our Group will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration, as they provide the basis for a more friendly and efficient public administration and, finally, for the more efficient work of the National Assembly and its working bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I invite Dr. Paul Gantar to present the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u236	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In opening, I would like to point out that in the LDS, we support most of the changes introduced by the law. Some solutions, such as the establishment of a contact centre, are even welcomed explicitly. This is a good solution, which, together with some others, will contribute to better accessibility of public services, i.e. public administrations. Of course, we support a more appropriate solution and regulation of the use of Italian and Hungarian language in administrative operations in areas of the national community. We also support the solutions introduced by the third article and will contribute to more effective legal supervision. This has also been adopted by our amendment, which specifies in paragraph 4 of this Article the right of access to documentation. We also support Article 6 concerning the construction, maintenance and management of information and communication infrastructure and services related to public administration and the use of this infrastructure. Some of our main comments concerning the exclusion of the concessional relationship in public private partnership have already been removed by the proposal of the proposer himself as amendments as amendments to the committee. The Minister also responded to some of the substantive and technical explanations requested or asked on the Committee and, of course, explained them accordingly. Nevertheless, we cannot support the law because of Article 2 which provides that the Government may, in cases of the absence or detention of the Minister and the Secretary of State on a proposal from the Minister-General, authorise the Director-General to represent the Government in the context of his work area in the work of the National Assembly. It was said to be an exception. But this exception that sets the rule. We often have experience in the functioning of this National Assembly, some committees, that this is already happening. While this provision is inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it in some way delegates the role and importance of the National Assembly, while at the same time the ruling majority wants, by means of a law adopted by the general majority, to enjoy a commercial provision which has, of course, been the subject of a two-thirds majority. We believe that with such a proposal, the government is neglecting the importance of the National Assembly as a representative body, while at the same time imposing on the Directors-General, which is extremely important, also the strong political functions of the government represented and represented. Unfortunately, the amendment by Mr Potrč was not adopted. The debate did not show more than the strong will of the parliamentary majority to support the government in its damage, which means an additional step towards strengthening the executive power towards the parliamentary authority. We cannot therefore support the law, we cannot vote against Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you very much. And as the last one, I invite Mr Miran Potrč to the stage, who will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Social Democrats will not be supported by the bill. In addition to the useful supplements relating to the use of the national language, to the regulation of the administrative inspection and to the electronic operation of the administration, the law, with a seemingly insignificant proposal, seriously interferes with the constitutional position of the national assembly in the manner in which it is exercised and regulated, and in the competence of the relationship between it and the government. What's this all about? The bill allows the Government to be replaced by the Director-General of the Ministry in cases of absence or detention of the Minister and the Secretary of State in the course of the National Assembly. There are cases of absence and no exceptions are foreseen. What Mr State Secretary and representatives of government parties said today is simply not true. The government itself assesses when it comes to absence and retention, which may be a legitimate reason for substitution. Unfortunately, we already have many such cases. There is no doubt that, because of the interests of the government, it is not in order to improve the functioning of the National Assembly and its decision-making to create unacceptable interference and to intertwine the political tasks and responsibilities of ministers and secretaries with the distinct professional tasks of the Director-General of Directorates and certain other organisational units in ministries. The government explains that each ministry has only one secretary of state and that now two officials fail to carry out all tasks in the government, EU institutions and the National Assembly. However, interestingly, the government does not think that, instead of the Secretary of State, an exceptional contribution could be made to the meetings of the government by the Director-General. Not at government meetings, but in the National Assembly, you can. The government is not considering adapting its organisation to very limited and time-consuming obligations in the national assembly and its working bodies. No, he prefers to take the simplest path for the government and suggests that the Director-General, as a prominent public servant of the highest professional rank, could suddenly become a political official of the government, who, on behalf of the Government, represents political positions at meetings of the national working bodies and even the national assembly. This is unacceptable, however, because it undermines the principle that there are only two political officials in each ministry, the principle of non-politicality, high level of expertise and independence of the administration, and changes the relations between the national assembly and the government, which are mostly political, must ensure at least the orderliness, not the subordination of the national assembly. And in the end. The proposal constitutes a grave interference with the legislative authority, since the issue of powers to represent at meetings of the national assembly and of the home labour bodies has been regulated by the Rules of Procedure and cannot be the content of the law. In particular, this issue cannot be addressed by a law adopted by the ordinary majority, while the Rules of Procedure are adopted by a two-thirds majority vote of the Members present. This is not only a humiliation of the national assembly and its powers. This is even an intervention in his constitutional position. I really shouldn't have accepted something like this. We do not understand that despite the warnings of the legislature, this option is supported by the government coalition. Does the constitutionality, respect for the procedures, relations and roles of the National Assembly and the government really have no value for the coalition? Do the Goals Really Dedicate Resources? Can most people do anything, even though they have been taught from the Constitutional Court that they must not accept unconstitutional solutions? Such coalition behaviours, supported by even habilitated legal experts, although these are seemingly less important issues, also constitute the erosion of the rule of law. That's why we won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u239	Thank you very much, everyone. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since there were no amendments to the amended draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. Of course, this also applies to a government representative. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the decision on the law will be made today in the framework of the vote, which will not be at 8:50 a.m. because we have finished earlier, but at 4:50 a.m. By meeting again for ten minutes to the fifth and voting on all proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u240	Dear fellow Members and Members! I ask that you take your seats so that we can start voting and bring the session to an end as soon as possible. Thank you so much for your attention and insight! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. Before switching to individual votes, in accordance with the established procedure, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. An orange light must burn on the right side of the card. In this case, a vote may be taken. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Louder? Do you hear me? Not yet. Then we need to ask our techniques to step up a little bit. Is that better? Thank you very much. So again, I'm alerting you to an orange light that has to burn on the right side of the inserted card. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Dusan Kumra, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Dusan Kumra's question on the sale of KAD and SOD shares in the Mercator business system. Would anyone like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or on behalf of their own? On behalf of the Group of Members, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u241	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There are several reasons why I proposed yesterday to address this issue at the next meeting of the National Assembly. It follows from the Prime Minister's reply that the government has waived or abolished a strategy to combat corruption and clienteleism, which it has written in a coalition contract in a special chapter defining a strategy for the withdrawal of the country from the economy through the capital company and the SOD. It is also right that representatives of the government, as representatives of the sole KAD shareholder, are said to present on behalf of the State a detailed analysis of the functioning and conduct of KAD, so that the Prime Minister will not excuse himself that all the other analyses and assessments that have been made are carried out over the thumb. It is said that the government has the opportunity not to evaluate and analyse over the thumb, but to come with credible information. Thirdly, it is right that the representatives of the sole KAD shareholder, the government on behalf of the State, explain how it is possible that the KAD Assembly is illegal and illegal. I am talking about the composition of a meeting of a capital company, which is not designated, composed in accordance with Article 13 of the Capital Company Statute. These are the reasons why, of course, I call once again on colleagues and colleagues in positions if there is no bad conscience and if there is little courage to allow us to receive this credible and true information at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to go first on behalf of the Group of Members? Please, speak only one, the one I give him my word. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Juice. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u243	Thank you very much. So on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, I would like to speak with my colleague. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u244	I'm asking you to listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u245	I would like to inform my colleague Kumru that we will not support this proposal, nor will we support the proposal tabled by my colleague Cwickl. We therefore consider this issue to be an extremely political issue. The opinions of experts are different. One of the opinions can be read in today's Finances, which - I would say - quite objectively shows the situation and the sales made. However, we will certainly support the proposal already put forward by the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance. And this is to set up a commission to look at this problem more broadly. That is to say, even previous such or other transactions that have been made in this area, as well as any legislation in so far as it is lacking. For we know that this legislation has essentially been adopted in previous mandates and that it is now in the way it is implemented and enforced. Thank you very much. So, on behalf of the Member of Parliament, I say that we will not support these two proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? But of course, but Mr. Squeakle, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u247	Thank you very much. We will, of course, support this proposal to hold a debate on the Prime Minister's response, and then later on what was Dr Lahovnik's fellow Member's proposal. My colleague Lakhovnik said there are three problems in this business. It's a problem not knowing those who make the deal. Yesterday we saw that this problem of ignorance is also with the Prime Minister. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u248	Please, I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u249	Secondly, it is the arrogance of the government, which has decided to give the shareholders of Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško about 30 billion in a non-transparent way and, of course, it is a suspicion of political corruption. I am surprised that we did not succeed in the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances at almost two meetings, several hours of meetings, in adopting a purely normal decision precisely because Members of the ruling coalition were opposed to the government preparing information on this. I'm surprised. I am surprised, of course, that then they themselves propose to consider all sales after they have been processed. We don't have a problem with that. But we have problems putting everything in one basket, like Geoplin and Mercator's sale. Mercator's sale is a business that should be carried out in accordance with the statute of the Slovenian compensation company on the basis of public financial legislation. A public tender should be made and a real price would be determined through a public offer. What today's Finances say by commentator Mr Antonović, if you read carefully, Mr Sok, is not exactly what you think is a positive contribution, but simply points to the problem that will arise in moving the price of this company's share. The main problem with Mercator is that because of ignorance, arrogance and political corruption, this government does not believe in the strategy of the largest Slovenian society. It is therefore good to discuss this here. It is good to discuss whether you will really manage Slovenian property by giving up up up to 30 billion takeover premiums. And who, if not the National Assembly and if not the Slovenian taxpayers, will eventually have to cover the loss of assets in KAD and SOD? Therefore, Members and Members of the ruling coalition, if you hope, then support this proposal and we will discuss it. However, if you do not hope, you will today reject Mr Kumr's proposal as my fellow Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u250	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we are of the view that any debate is welcome already for the sake of clarifying certain things and for the public to determine who is right, either the so-called former government or the current government. Finally, this debate could also bring or reveal the backdrop of the sale. I don't know, Lek - say. This could also be discussed. As regards the establishment of commissions, the Commissions were, in practice, set up to hide something when something was wrong. And unlike one of my predecessors alone and in the national party's parliamentary group, we are not convinced that this is a political issue. We want transparency. Transparency is the one you committed yourself to in the coalition contract. Therefore, both this proposal and the next proposal on the general debate will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Petan has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. So, we will not support this proposal in the SDS, and I will explain why. Because this is a typical example of duality. When we're in theory, we know everything and we know everything, but when we go into concrete, we have a thousand and seventy excuses, why don't we do it. Before a good month ago, the opposition, respected colleagues and colleagues, demanded the state's unconditional withdrawal from the economy. And that on the big door and very fast, right now, it's all too late. But when the state did, everything was wrong. When the privileged, who are supposed to appoint overseers themselves, are no longer able to do so and, by chance, are small shareholders with a few billion and when they give up when they want to, but not when owners decide to do so, everything is wrong. It's all wrong when the SOD and KAD sold 23% of the shares and bought them by Istrabenz and Laško as suppliers. How is that possible? But I wonder what they would say, dear colleagues, and what would it be like, say, to buy these shares - I don't know - some foreign trading chain and to disappear Slovenian food from Mercator's shelves and come - I don't know - French, German, I'm making it up? Then what billion would you like to talk about? I wonder what they'd say. I wonder what they'd say. What was the Slovenian government doing, how did you hope to do that? It's my national interest. Gentlemen, not duplicity. I'm sure the KAD and SOD Assembly are legitimate. Just because a small shareholder didn't approve of it and disagreed with it doesn't mean it's illegal. If this small shareholder with billions has not approved the composition, it does not mean that this ignorance is by the government. That is why, of course, we will not support this proposal in our parliamentary group. However, we will support every debate on the relevant committee, and ultimately, if necessary, we will also support the proposal for an investigative committee, if that happens. But we would consider everything there because it is necessary to deal fully with it. It's the state of Slovenia. It's not just some segments in this area of work. In that case, we won't. However, we are prepared for any discussion on the relevant committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u254	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, fellows! Nor will our customers support this for a simple reason. This thing has been so loud and full of media space for several weeks now very intense. And the commission chaired by Mr Squeakl - I think - has already put quite a debate on this subject, both of which are different. You must have met your colleagues, too. The proposal was also made by our party that the institutions that Slovenia has, both offices, agencies, exchanges and others, should carry out in peace the work of this business, which was what it was. But I believe - as my colleague before me said - any deal with Mercator would have been wrong. It would be wrong for a stranger to sell to the Slovenes. That's definitely it. None would be in the best interests of the gentlemen responsible in this company to be in favour, certainly not of the opposition. However, I am sure that if these answers to the relevant institutions are not appropriate and will not be bad and so on, the budgetary control committee will probably also adopt certain positions and will refer this to the national assembly which will, on the basis of these views, decide on whether the debate is so important that it is decided in the national assembly and here to discuss whether the government has infringed the laws and regulations or whether the CAD and the SOD have violated their GDD or anything else. Let's give it time. I don't think there's any rush, after all, the referendum's over and you don't have to tighten your muscles here. That's why I suggest we wait for this story. Let all relevant authorities coordinate and report on their reports. And if this is gonna be such an uproaring story, as many irregularities as some of you are reading, then I myself will be willing to discuss this story with government representatives, KAD, SOD and others to clear things up. That, probably back because there were a few in the past. [[sales of KAD and SOD]] and no one ever came forward when we were selling this or that, including an eminent Slovenian company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] What about in your own name? Mr. Kumer, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. We still support the government's strategy and policy of withdrawing from the economy as soon as possible, but not deceiving the public and ourselves or ourselves. We're talking about the way this retreat is going. You have spent six months teaching the Slovenian public and us in this Parliament what the coalition contract says, from ministers, Prime Minister and beyond. And now we're just warning you that the government itself is in violation of the coalition treaty. And once again, I warn you, this is not about a change in the policy that the government has set itself. I hope you will not change Articles 87 and 88 of the Treaty of the European Union. I hope this government is so far away and this Parliament is not yet. And in the end, around the KAD Assembly. I will briefly say Article 13: five, five, five, pensioners, disabled persons, five employers and insured persons and five governments. You can see today, of the 15 members, there are 13 members and members of candidates in the elections or in the current year 2000 or in the previous local ones, from coalition parties. That is why I would like to stress once again. It is indeed an illegal and illegal composition of the KAD Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u258	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u259	I think it would also be wise on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u260	I'm asking you to listen!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u261	And I'd like to ask my colleagues to be at least polite, if nothing else. I don't know, it looks like they didn't teach you how to behave at home. I have already said several times that the debate on this issue on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances is very useful, and even more so the debate in the National Assembly. So that you can prove to the members of the government coalition that your fights over the past four years or four years prior to the 2004 elections were well thought out and that they actually led to what you've been promising the entire electoral body, which you've also led them to. Mr Pojbič, please, if you learn to behave, which you have also led voters to vote for you. Now, however, prove to them that your hands are clean, that your intentions are sincere, and that the sale of shares in Mercator was made in a fair and clear and clean manner. I doubt that, and I am not sure that it is only political corruption, but that it is real financial corruption. So please prove to me that this is not true. And prove in this way that we have this debate here. If you refuse to do so, it means that you simply have no proof of the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u262	Thank you very much. I would ask all fellow Members and Members to free themselves a little bit of the emotional charge, all I ask is that we only discuss things as adults and sent Members. Please. And stick to the explanation. Anybody else want some? There's no replica. Would anyone else like to explain their voice in their own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u263	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that there is talk in Parliament and if there are situations in the country from which it is not clear which side is right, then if someone, we Members, is responsible to our electorate to pour them pure wine. There is a strong suspicion that in this case it was not only about corruption but also about some kind of state crime. This has happened many times in the past, and all things have settled well under the rug, and this game continues today. I do not want to be a figurine man and, of course, I will vote in favour of this proposal, because I think it is useful for the country and for all the parties we sit in here, that at the end of this debate, as long as this decision is voted on, we really pour pure wine, not bet each other with various accusations, with inappropriate nicknames, instead of working for the good and for the benefit of this country and our constituents who elected us.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Mogue. Nevertheless, I would ask Members of Parliament and Members to wait for them to be called by their name because of the magnetogram. Mr. Tarchoon, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u265	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I will vote in favour of this proposal. I think that this ruling coalition, as has been highlighted many times, has come to power after 12 years of LDS rule with coalition partners, mainly with warnings of corruption. For the past two years, we have listened non-stop, even when I was in this Parliament, to the case of the SIB bank, which might have ended if it had not been so affairably monitored, otherwise. As far as I can remember, it went there for three billion. I'd say so, well done. You've been able to question 30 billion in six months. We're in 12 months three. And now, if we measure these watts, which are very simple, I think the soul has to tell us to open this debate. No relativisation with different medications will help you. I am also ready to light up the whole sale, but I think it was in all cases some take-over premiums and some difficult negotiation, but not for some backstage games, when neither the director was informed of anything, and this is to be clarified. Just ask yourself that question. After 12 years, the question was 3 billion, now after six months 30. The decision is very clear. If you have any conscience, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u266	Thank you very much. And Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u267	Even in my own name. Members of the SDS, New Slovenia and SLS, I regret that you do not hope to support your decision. So, Mr Pogačnik, Mr Podpečan, you did not hope to attend the Commission's meeting. They came to the National Assembly, had a press conference from the runaway. But Mr. Toplak did not dare answer any questions. True, it is a matter of withdrawing the country from the economy, but it is not an unconditional withdrawal. It's a retreat where what the law requires is maximized. However, legislation requires that the value of taxpayers is maximized when withdrawing from the economy. Why? Because otherwise, the value is maximized for someone else. This is a simple lever of corruption, financial, political. And in this case, he was taken for taxpayers no tolars, and for others up to 30 billion tolars. And second, what is important in this withdrawal from the economy is that the strategy of Slovenian companies is supported. And if the Secretary of State, the President of the KAD Supervisory Board, who manages most of the Slovenian companies, says that she does not believe in Mercator, because Hofer and Lidl will come, then I wonder what kind of corruption is in the back. Therefore, Members and Members, let us support this proposal. Let's have a discussion about this, and then, when we're done with Mercator, let's have a discussion about Lek and anything. Only Mr Bajuk, who led the Commission, which I am currently leading, in the previous term, did not convene a single meeting of the Commission on the topic of "sale of state property". I regret that. This is the task of the Commission to control the budget and other public finances, and therefore we have this commission and we are having a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I think we can vote. Thank you very much. 76 Members and Members are present. The vote was 30 to 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of Parliament, Mr Jelinčič Trimenite, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of the victory of Jelinčič Trimenite on the resolution of open border issues with Croatia. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Jelinczych the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that the topic is extremely important, especially at the moment when the position of the Slovenian government began to change for the first time and when the attitude of the Slovenian government on this issue changed. The undeniable fact is that many things could be solved during the 12 years of the previous rule, but there was no desire or connection with former brothers in arms or party books too strong to do anything. The fact is that we have not received any positive response, not from the President of the then government or from the President of the country, even less than the relevant institutions in the National Assembly, except for one decision or two conclusions. This was the decision of the National Assembly on the resolution on the indivisibility of the Gulf of Piran in 1993 and 1994, which unequivocally determined and committed the Slovenian Government to the fact that the Gulf of Piran is indivisible and that it is Slovenia. The Slovenian government, headed by Mr Drnovsko, had little to do with what the National Assembly had said, but Mr private games and private deals went on, little by little with that, with the help of the political parties of the then ruling coalition. Another matter was the adoption of a decision on the Committee on International Relations that the State must prepare for any arbitration. In 1994, a decision was taken on the Committee on International Relations. And yet nothing has happened in this area as well. For the desire of the then ruling structure was that the Croats should not become hardened, and that they should be left in peace. Even earlier or even more so, they are allowed to intervene aggressively in the territory of Slovenia and its meeting. The fact is, in this way, Croatia has always received territories, points in history, and I don't know what else. The fact is that their fraudulent historical and false historical so-called "historic truth" dates back to 1102 from the Pacte Convention, which was actually falsified in the 15th century. It's a fake on which they actually base their history. From then on, fakes themselves, fraud itself. I think it is high time that a debate on these matters is opened here in the National Assembly, to tell historical facts and to use them at a time when this is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u271	We will support the debate on the Prime Minister's response because we believe that this is worth discussing. I will not comment on what has been said by my colleague, Mr Yelinčič. I think there's been a lot of inaccuracies, so I won't tell the truth. It is important to discuss this. Whether this should be discussed in an open or closed session should be decided by those who give their answers. It is clear, however, that we will have to have a lot of discussions about the issues that are being raised in relation to relations with Croatia, because in the last nine months this government of the Republic of Slovenia has been significantly changing some of the previous positions. And we'll see if we can do better or worse. I'm personally afraid we'll have more problems. However, we will propose and support the proposal to hold a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Maybe someone else in their own name? Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u273	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear colleague Jelinčič! Of course, I will support Mr Yelinčič's proposal to hold a debate on this issue. Although, in a substantive sense, he raised this issue in a very cautious way so that he would not resent the current government, to try to find reasons for such a situation in weather events, river flows, rolling, sea and possibly Drnovšku or anyone else. In short, to draw real attention to the other side. But we are ready for this debate. We will discuss this debate, if it is voted on, ask some other questions and issues and together we will - here we need consensus - come up with the right answer to the unresolved dilemmas of our colleague, Victory Jelinčič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u274	Thank you very much. In your own name? Mr. Jelinczych! Mr Bevk was formerly, then Mr Jelinčič, we speak for ourselves. Mr. Bevk, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I will also support this proposal to hold a thorough debate on this subject in the State Assembly, although we will also discuss the proposal for a law on the proclamation of the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia on Tuesday. However, I must conclude that this debate, which will be held in the framework of this meeting of the National Assembly and under this item on Tuesday, covers only one hour of time. In fact, only all parliamentary groups will be able to identify themselves in five minutes to such an important issue as the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental belt. What I think is absolutely insufficient time, and also to clear up all the dilemmas about this important issue, which is certainly a national important project, around which we need to unify ourselves as much as possible, the coalition and the opposition. I think it is right that we also hold this debate at a future meeting of the National Assembly. That is why I will support this proposal, despite being proposed by the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič, an explanation on your behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank all my colleagues who will support me, despite the fact that they have a bit of a hard time at heart and are having a hard time swallowing saliva. The fact is, there's a lot of truth coming out of the day. And that's right. This is precisely the purpose of this debate, in order to clarify the matter, to know who had any position, who was also ever against Slovenia, who was representing anti-Slovenian opinions and who might be representing them today. This is a very important matter. In fact, this is the first such very specific and direct debate on this subject, which is why it is all the more important. However, I think that some after this debate will find that it wasn't me who had the wrong data, but that it was those who their masters were telling them the wrong information they had to learn from. It's hard, though, if someone's got one truth stuck in their head. It's hard to knock her down, but you knock her down with an argument. But we will hear the arguments largely, enormously, of course, if everyone wants to hear them and wants to hear them. It's hard to hear something bad, it's hard to hear something like that when it turns out that someone we -- I don't know where we've been working for -- actually turns out not to belong there. And that some people who were in the highest positions were not actually working for their own country, but were working for some former, historical moments that I don't know why they were when they were owed to some gentlemen from earlier times. It's a very important thing. And once again, dear colleagues, regardless of your explanations, I sincerely thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u278	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u279	Thank you very much. I will be happy to support my colleague Jelinčič's proposal, even because we have a qualified man for foreign policy who will be able to answer us adequately. He was foreign minister in Peterlet's government, he was foreign minister in Drnovskov's government, he was foreign minister in Robov's government, and now he's foreign minister in Jansev's government. He was a member of the SDZ, a Democrat, he was Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and is now one of your party's very senior members. For this reason, having such an experienced person can in some ways be very qualityly guided by this debate. On the other hand, respected colleagues and colleagues should also have a little fun here in the National Assembly and talk about our foreign policy towards Croatia. Why? The debt of the Ljubljana Bank is a taboo topic and is talked about for years and years. But let's put this aside if it brings us bad points. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have helped the Croats with train compositions, with many trucks we have brought them weapons in the worst times, armed them, and not the devil to talk to such people, and to solve these problems once, even because the public knows that the Croats have paid for all these weapons, as far as the cash is concerned, only 10,000 German marks. I think they're [[...]] [[Laughing in the hall]] [[...]] Mr President, I would ask my fellow Members to allow us to do our job here, but not to let them come into our word at every performance, they are shouting unfounded things. I think that, given the president of a party who behaves differently, Members should also have some "symph", we call this behaviour in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Of course, a warning for better behavior applies to all, left and right. Mr. Gulic, your word. Please, Mr. Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u281	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will support the debate, not despite it, but because it has been proposed and because I think it is still a parliament where it is debated, it is saying, perhaps it is true that sometimes there is a matter over the edge, but, nevertheless, it is much better than silently withdrawing the debates and not talking about matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Dr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor. I'll support my colleague Jelinčič's proposal myself. And the reason for that is very simple. I am personally convinced that it would be a time to agree to agree in this country on what our policy will be for Croatia and not to explain it every five minutes and everyone who has time and opportunity to do so publicly, thereby reducing Slovenia's chances of achieving the most favourable profit for Slovenia. My proposal would therefore be to support this and to close and hold a thorough debate. Also to see if it is really as easy to achieve more than Drnovšku has succeeded - which some speak of with excess - in the negotiations he himself has negotiated with Croatia. I will be very, very happy if anyone can really achieve more than he does. So I will support this, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Please let the calls take place outside this hall. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u285	Thank you very much. I also agree with what Dr. Gaber said in the introduction. There's a deal to be made. This is a matter where we need to reconcile ourselves, and I agree, we need to talk. Not every five minutes to open this problem. With this difference, I am not in favour of doing this in public, because this will be an internal-political account. I will therefore vote against this proposal. Of course, I agree with the argument put forward by Dr. Gaber, and I think that it is necessary at a closed session, as we have closed meetings on such issues, to be harmonised and to act in a uniform manner, otherwise it is not possible to take this as an honest proposal to solve something.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I will support this proposal, too, because of Mura. It has been proven that Moore's problem cannot be swept under the carpet. I hope that in this way we can come to a just solution, and the Mura remains what was for several centuries, that is, the border river. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u289	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm joining everyone in front of me who said you'd support the proposal. I also do not agree with the way Croatia, which, with its policy of sharpening and aggressive attacks on our territory, usually takes a step back, but ultimately results in better positions and has more territory at the end than it did in 1991, which is still the starting point that we must insist on. Indeed, it is high time that we also conclude and adopt in this national assembly some conclusions that our government can then make use of, and with so much greater legitimacy, of the neighbouring country. We also cannot agree that Croatian police officers across Slovenian territory, which they have never done before, are driving the border section along the Mura River, which has always been part of Slovenian territory. Once again, they've never gone over Mura for the purpose of official control. Now they are even doing this through the border crossing and driving through the sovereign Slovenian territory to control themselves and as we have seen, we can also check the fishermen. So, the fishing story moved from the Bay of Piran to Mura. We can only look forward to where it will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak, this time in your name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u291	I will support this already because of all of the above, in particular what has been said is worth discussing. Absolutely, Mr Kokalj, in accordance with Article 101 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, any debate can be closed to the public. It is up to the college to decide on this at the end of the day on a proposal from the proposer to be able to do so here at the meeting itself. So I don't think it's possible to support the decision because it's not possible to close the public meeting, but it's really not an argument. I suggest you support the decision. I suggest the government prepares the materials. Mr Moge said that we have a very good and very experienced foreign minister and we will hold a debate. In this debate, we will probably need a number of answers, in particular, why, even past the European Union Affairs Committee, the government has actually changed its position in nine months. And it is true to discuss this behind closed doors so that internal political accounting in Slovenia is not used primarily on the other sides of the borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will not support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party for the following reasons. I believe that the government, as well as the Prime Minister, explained the government's views yesterday and also said what is the state of communication on the entire border between Slovenia and Croatia. The closed meeting of the National Assembly will also not make a significant contribution. We have the committees of the National Assembly, and above all we have a government that we leave it to act responsibly and also to take responsibility for its actions. All that has been said now is more or less political and media-reflective statements. If we want to calm down again because the negotiations on the entire border are reopened, given that the Croats have not adopted the right and, in fact, in this Parliament, in the previous Parliament, the Drnovšek-Racan agreement, Slovenia, as a member of the European Union and NATO, now has every opportunity to calm down in a calm manner also by taking account of the situation in Croatia, because some try to lower and somehow enforce the tested policy from the past, to leave it to the government, to manage things as it should be, and only after the results are such or otherwise, a debate on committees and in Parliament is opened. It's all actually [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u295	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to request, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, 10 minutes before the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u296	Thank you very much. We will do this, but first we will end with an explanation of vote. Does anyone else want to explain? Mr. Squeakle, you've already explained your voice. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm adjourning the session for 10 minutes, and we'll resume at 5.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u297	It's 5:50 p.m., which means the time for the suspension of the session and the break is up. I therefore invite the representative of the Slovenian People's Party to explain the voice, if necessary, and then we will vote. Okay, no need. Since we have previously domaind ourselves in accordance with practice, irrespective of the vague provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we will no longer explain our votes, but we will vote. We're voting. [[Back-up advertising.]] We're voting, Mr. Squeakle. I note that 71 Members and Members are present. Mr Jelinčič Trimenite's motion for a decision was voted 26 to 43. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. We're moving on to point three. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matey Lahovnik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At its next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question by Dr Matey Lahovnik, on the exit strategy, including the CAD and the SOD, from the economy in 2005. Who wants to explain the vote on behalf of the Group? Mr. Squeakle, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u298	I would further explain this proposal because there is no Member. Let me say that it would be good to support this proposal, not for exactly the same reasons that Mr Dusan Kumer spoke about earlier, but mainly because the Prime Minister replied yesterday - and is supposed to discuss it - he was speaking the truth. You could say that he was even deceiving, no doubt this is reflected in the magnetogram. The Prime Minister said: "At this point, the rules of the game as you have defined are applicable and are followed by the same procedures." That's not true! Since this would be true in order to comply with the same procedures, the Slovenian compensation company would, of course, have to follow the Slovenian law on public finances, which requires the collection of bids. This is the first reason why we need to discuss this in order to resolve doubts as to whether the Prime Minister is telling the truth or deceiving it. Secondly, because we have a problem with the philosophy of unconditional withdrawal that we talked about today. This withdrawal is not in accordance with Slovenian legislation, nor is it in line with the basic principle of our ancestors, and this is to work under the CAP, which is not a law on criminal procedure, but to act on a healthy farm's mind. We would only like to achieve this in order to discuss in this national assembly that the SOD and the CAD should act as a good master. However, if the government is restricting them in this regard, because apparently some meetings were held on 12 August, where otherwise agreed - namely, it was agreed not to be sold in accordance with legislation or not in accordance with the CAP - this should be discussed. We would therefore like to have a debate on how the SOD and the KAD act as a good master and why they gave someone 30 billion in this case. And one last thought in this regard. Now that this is sold to private companies, there is no formal possibility of preventing Mercator's sale to foreigners. Right now, these owners of Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško would even optimize the property if they sold it to foreigners. We therefore believe that it is necessary to discuss this, to find out who made procedural mistakes here, who broke the law and who did not act as a good master. One last time. It would be good to discuss the Prime Minister's response, because, according to the new, of course, unknown ones, the President's rules have been speechless, the time has run out, and he has not been able to explain all the reasons. I therefore propose that we discuss his response.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? In your own name? Mr. Gulic. Probably in his own name, because Mr. Squeakl is already on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u300	I'm sure in my own name. I hope that on behalf of someone else in this House as well. I'd say that again, that's Parliament. And whenever any group seems necessary to hold a public debate, I think it is necessary to do so. We are not yet a 'non parliament', although some want it and certainly not one that we have to agree with anyone, even though it is the Prime Minister. I therefore believe that it is necessary to vote in favour of a public debate, whether for such or for other reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u301	Thank you. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly of the draft decision has not adopted it. We continue with the proposal by Mr Boštjan Zagorec, whose decision will be decided by the assembly in the following proposal for a decision: At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Mr Dimitri Rupl to the question of Mr Boztjan Zagorec on measures to reduce judicial backlogs. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm sorry. She's obviously been threatened by a sent-away press reptile. I repeat the proposal for a decision and warn professional services to read again what they write. The proposal for a decision is as follows: "At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the reply of Justice Minister Dr. Lovra Šturma to the question of the Member State of Bosnia and Herzegovina on measures to reduce judicial backlogs." Does anyone want to explain their voice? First, on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u302	In the five years that I have been in this room, and perhaps even more years, respected colleagues of the age, including our Victory, listen to the issue of the judiciary. We hear about the problem of setbacks, we hear about the Hercules programs, we hear stories about the spatial tribulations and the impossible conditions of the work of the judiciary. We listen to such and different half-truths, as well as the untruths, but unfortunately for the real decisions, which certainly cannot be made by the judicial branch of authority. I think that 10, 12 years of this state of affairs, five years of being a member of the Internal Policy Committee alone, hasn't changed much in court. The Hercules program put some money in some people's pockets. Nothing's changed. And last but not least if we do not convince you, my fellow Members and colleagues, in our proposal, that we need to talk about the state of justice right now and now, to convince you of Dr. Lovr Šturm's words. This happened yesterday, I think, when he said, "in fact, the issue of judicial backlogs is so important and weighty that it is right that several times is also regarded as a question of procedure". So he himself insisted on our request, our proposal to devote a few minutes to this issue. But we have enough time, because our work is basically to speak, Parliament, Parliament. Be here and clear things up for all Slovenes and Slovenes, not for themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I guess not. We're voting. Thank you very much. 76 Members and Members present. 20 and 47. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. We are moving on to a broken 2nd item of the agenda, which is, at the request of the Group of Members, that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Protection following a regular procedure. There is no explanation for the vote, so I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Protection shall be examined on a regular basis. And let me say this: if the Council of State does not adopt the decision, we will consider the proposal of the law following a reduced procedure. We're voting. Thank you very much. I find 76 Members and Members present. The proposal for a decision was voted 15 against 56, which means that the assembly will deal with the bill in short-term terms. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 56.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 2. Would anyone like to explain their voice? Mr. Weber. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u304	Yes, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u305	Okay, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u306	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we propose to add provisions relating to housing or housing law to the amended proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Fees. This is an extremely important area and given that we are already trying to solve a number of other topics in this law, it is right and I think that it is also necessary, due to the complexity and sensitivity of this area, to try to bring as many mechanisms into the way that housing problems in Slovenia will be reduced and that, above all, the possibility of planning to solve this problem will be as transparent as possible, which certainly also allows all those who want to rent apartments to relieve all of the administrative fees and thus encourage them to be as complete as possible and thus have the opportunity to plan for as real a housing problem as possible. With regard to the other topics covered by these points, we add them to social cases. Given that many issues have been raised in these cases in practice so far, we believe that it is also necessary to make clear where social situations in the housing sector are concerned, but it is only possible to exempt administrative fees. This is therefore an extremely sensitive area, which, in our view, also deserves to be included in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich. We're still on the ground. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u308	the vote of the parliamentary group on the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u309	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u310	Thank you very much. I will repeat what I said in the debate on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. I will repeat in a very popular way, in a clear understanding to all that this amendment needs to be adopted. 60 poor people are asking for a non-profit apartment. They're asking for a non-profit apartment because they don't have the money for a normally well-groomed apartment. 60 people pay 4,000 500 tolls. 20 of those 60 people get this apartment. At the expense of the '60s, or this difference, the country has become rich at the expense of taxes. When we ask if this is right for you, the government, the state answers us, but perhaps not, since it is not explicitly written anywhere that these fees should be paid, you can do otherwise and you do not have to count them. This is proof that there is disorder in the legislation in this area, so let us together adopt this amendment, which actually creates, for the first time, order and for the second time, a real social note, because we really cannot afford to pay a tax from people who are looking for the cheapest apartments that are sometimes not even worthy of a person. By comparison, however, I tell you that a number of apartments that are really not worth a man, but are also good for those who do not have one, and they may cost 8,000 tolls of rent. Think about it when you decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u312	Thank you very much. I will explain why I will vote against the amendment. It seems a little distasteful, what has been said in the debate about the amendment before. We're in favour of signing 4,000 dollars for the poor, you're against it. And this is actually explained by those who should know things well in the local community. We know that the biggest problem is actually that middle layer, which is the poorest and actually the one that has to pay. We know very well that there are all forms of subsidies today and how as rich as those who, under the term, are "most poor" exploit it. I am surprised that some of these arguments explain how we should support this amendment. I will certainly vote against the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u314	On behalf of the Group of Members, allow me to present my support for this amendment. This amendment needs to be supported, not only because it solves, if you want, problems in paying administrative fees for the purposes presented here, in particular, that it will enable the development of the housing market, but, of course, in non-profit housing and, of course, in the context of non-payment of administrative fees for Slovenia and Slovenia, which are not entrepreneurs or which are not a group of some partial, by the ruling coalition of supported groups. In doing so, I am particularly saddened by what was previously said in the debate that the ruling coalition has largely decided that this amendment, as we hear today, will not be supported. At the same time, I wonder what the basic objectives that this ruling coalition has put into its agenda and what the Prime Minister himself has been talking about in the last nine, ten months. The registration of rental contracts, apartment apartments, solves housing problems mainly for those who cannot afford new or own apartments. These are primarily young families, and in this sense the State Assembly can help them greatly in this gesture. If you reject this amendment, then at least you will speak against what your Prime Minister says publicly. Maybe he doesn't even mean what he's saying publicly, and all this is more intended for a debate for the so-called Slovenian general public. This is a very concrete amendment and the vote on it will show what kind of social democrats you are.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u316	Thank you very much. I will just remind you how the negotiations and the vote have been conducted and the debate on this. But I'm talking about this because I'm going to support this amendment on my own, for the following reasons. When we spoke on the parental committee about this, the government proposed to reject this amendment, even though it had substantively agreed with it. She insisted that she simply refused because she said that it was a duplication, that it was already arranged and that it was now duplicating. Since it was then said that taxes were being charged on the ground, the government ensured that it would do everything in order to stop this bad practice. And now we are simply advocating that what is already arranged and not respected, we enter into the administrative fees law and this will have to be respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u318	Thank you very much. I'm not going to explain my support for this amendment. I'm just going to say why. When the colleague warned us that the mayors, who should all know the best about the various opinions of the ministries, would like to say that the opinion of the Ministry of Finance cannot replace the law. When it comes to exemption from payment of a fee, it is necessary to specify clearly in the law in which cases and who may exempt the payment of a fee. Even if we have received the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, this does not mean that the Ministry of Finance can intervene in the law and inform and order the municipalities what they can do with a tax prescribed by law and for which the law does not provide for an exemption. That is why I think that the colleague's explanation is also somewhat unobjective and "unfair" because it requires the mayors to respect something that is not law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u319	Thank you very much. So we're voting. There were 77 Members and Members present. 33 votes against 44, which means that the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 2 has not been adopted. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] Therefore, since no amendment or only amendment has been adopted to the law, the National Assembly will vote on the draft law on Thursday 29 September 2005 following the end of the last item of the agenda of this meeting, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the School Inspection Act. One amendment was tabled by the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia to Article 4 and I ask whether anyone would like to explain their vote on behalf of or on behalf of the Group of Members. Dr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u320	On behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Vice-President, I would like to remind us all again, because now we have more than just been considered to be a complement to talking about not showing to public institutions such as the Education Institute, the Centre for Vocational Education, the State Examination Centres and so on, with advisory and development tasks, to impose further inspection tasks. Before their independence, they had this task, then the advisory inspection was mixed, then the same person came to the classroom and advised people, but if they didn't understand what he was advising them, if they didn't want to take her advice, of course, by inspecting them, she told them how they needed to understand things. This situation was not stimulating in schools. Some of us have had the opportunity to experience such procedures on our skin, and it does not seem appropriate to go back and introduce them into the system. We therefore propose that this supplement be accepted and that a decent level of sensitivity of the school system be maintained when it comes to the relationship between counselling and inspection. Let's not increase the repression, let's not increase the pressure on teachers. Of course, the inspection remains, only the inspectors carry out, not the advisors.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Maybe someone else? Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u322	Thank you very much. I'll vote for this amendment myself. The law is pretty good, but it's a mistake that the predecessor used to talk about. By adopting this amendment, we could not vote for the law, because this law of the public institutions, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, the Republic Audit Centre, the Centre for Vocational Education is transforming it into an advisory body for the inspection of the Republic of Slovenia, which means that these institutions under the Ministry and the Minister will now be linked into one round. For this reason, if the law is to be adopted in such a dictatorship, changes to the founding acts will be necessary because they are related to other activities. As a result of this, amendments to the statutes and I think it would also be wise that education would not be regulated in such a way that it would be about as in the courts, which suggests an amendment, so that consultants who would write expert opinions could only be public officials, even those I mentioned, but some other institutions could. It seems to me that the law was introduced in this part also because the Education Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia does not seem to be able to solve certain things on its own by its own authority and would need to be covered by state public institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u323	Thank you very much. I understand that no one wants a word anymore, so we are voting. There are 77 Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] It means that the amendment was not adopted. As this was also the only amendment, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Thursday, 29 September of this year, after the end of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the primary school law. Would anyone like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Perhaps in the meantime I will read a decision that reads: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the primary school law is not suitable for further consideration. Dr. Gaber, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u324	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President! Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy will not support the proposed decision, because there are more than enough reasons to speak in favour of adopting the law. For the law brings fewer items per day and fewer items per week. It also brings easier bags, about which there were many talks in the years behind us. It brings less evaluation and more in-depth treatment of substances. It brings a lot of meaningful solutions, with which some Scandinavian or Nordic countries are developing a curriculum of Slovenian primary schools. There is no particular reason why we should reject such a law, so we cannot support the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Maybe someone else? Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u326	Thank you. I will not support the proposed decision, as will my fellow Members and colleagues. It is true that in one element it interferes with existing legislation which governs a nine-year-old, but it seems to me that this is a change that is directed towards all that means decommissioning, flexibility, greater deregulation of the school system and greater autonomy of schools. I know from my practice that the effectiveness of teaching in one-hour subjects is significantly lower than in doubles. Therefore, this change, which offers the possibility of combining an object, instead of one hour in two years, after two hours in one year, both greater efficiency and a reduction in the number of objects in a class. It seems to me that the current government has introduced a much more fatal change in the school system without the necessary trial period. This change is geared towards the benefit of the pupils, so I think it would be worth supporting and voting against the decision of the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Anyone else? I guess not. So we're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 33. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're going to break the 6th point of the agenda. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners on Thursday 29 September 2005, following the end of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. We're moving on to the 7th item of the agenda. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will also vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice on Thursday, following the end of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on awards and recognitions for outstanding achievements in research and development activities. One amendment, the Social Democrats' Group, was tabled to Article 3. Does anyone want to explain their voice? On behalf of the Group of Members, I presume, Mrs Potrata.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u328	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As a large number of Members and Members have now gathered at the Assembly premises, allow me to draw your attention to this amendment once again and ask for your support for the amendment. I am aware that the situation is somewhat puzzling because the amendment returns the first record of Pooh's recognition in accordance with the legality of Slovenian spelling, which means that we also write this letter for the voice image of the letter "h", not "ch", as is usually the case in Austrian or German spelling. After he moved from the village of Juršinci to the end of the 19th century to Graz, Slovenian innovator and industrialist Janez Puh adapted the written image of his surname to the language environment in which he lived. I am sure that each of you has some experience with what problems we actually have when reading the surnames of Slavs or some other language in another language. Let me tell you just for an example. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe shall be composed of a Member, who shall be written by Jarzab, and shall read his last name, Jarab. And I tell you this: that in order to preserve the voice of your surname in a foreign language environment, and in the official language of that day, Puh wrote his name. If you look at the 10th volume of the Encyclopaedia Slovenije on page 14, you will find a password that says: Janez Puh, also Johann Puch. Since it is a recognition that we grant or grant in Slovenia, it seems justified to write it in Slovenian spelling. At the same time, this is a reference to how it can be done in the future and preserve all that is related to the specificities of the Slovenian language. I therefore recommend support for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u330	Thank you very much. I was happy to listen to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Sport and Mag this afternoon. Majdo Potrat, who faced pro-et contra arguments for this amendment. I must say that the arguments of Minister Potrat convinced me, so I will vote in favour of this amendment and also because we have in use in Slovenia, and no one has said anything, but the Puho Street without -ch and also the Puho Museum without -ch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u331	Thank you very much. So over-indulgence is probably not considered an insult. Mr. Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u332	Thank you, Vice President. I was among those few Members who had the good fortune to listen to, in my opinion, a brilliant presentation both of them, by being more taken over by Majda Potrat. She's taken over me by learning language, spelling. Just in this area, nothing else has taken over. And she convinced me first and foremost with one kind of presentation, which was particularly nice to me. She talked about the fact that in three events in your life, you actually have an impact on your image or on your last name and name. On the first one, so you don't affect your birth by yourself, you get it written by your parents in your mother's book, on the last one, so you don't affect your death, because you get it by the official duty, on the important one, so on the wedding, when you sign the marriage book, and you do it yourself, and there our Mr. Janez Puh wrote Janez Puh himself, without -ch. And it seems to me that this is the chick that convinced me that it would be worth changing our minds in our consciousness, our minds, which we have from the past, that this Pooh is half Slovenian in half of Austria, and even though he lived in Austria, I think he's more Slovenian. That is why I support the amendment and I propose and agree or agree, and I would be very happy if you would support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u334	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm leaning a lot more towards the Pooh myself without the ch. For a number of reasons. One thing is certain, however, is that the Ministry has already drafted the law in the first place, and then the minister himself acknowledged that he would be happy to correct the law if it turned out otherwise and that we would save him this work so that he would not have to be corrected. However, if the profession proves otherwise, it can still be supported. The other thing is what has already been said here: if any other country were in a similar dilemma, they would certainly not have this dilemma and would have written it down as recorded in their home country. Last but not least, we have seen more of these cases in the scientific field as well as in the cultural and artistic field. For this reason, I will certainly decide here for Slovenia and support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u335	Thank you very much. The restlessness caused by a relaxed laugh is not so undesirable. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The name Puc is also very important in Slovenia, as it was one of the very well-known national chess representatives. When I typed in "Find.si" the name and surname of Janez Puh opened up as much as 450 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u337	But now I'd like to ask for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u338	But when I printed Puch, the Das Johan Puch Museum Graz also opened. [[...]] We also have a number of personalities from our past who have had their first names and surnames from the previous centuries, and we are writing them in Slovenian today, so that there is no obstacle that we would not follow this pattern here as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Anyone else? If not, we are voting on the amendment proposal. Thank you very much. 69 Members and Members were present. The vote was 37 to 24. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 24.]] This means that the amendment has been adopted, so I give the floor to the proposer or the proposer of the law. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u340	Mr President, honourable Members and Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u341	I'm asking you to listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u342	In accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government proposes to hold a third hearing at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u343	Thank you very much. If I may repeat the proposal, it is for the assembly, under Rule 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, to be held at this meeting, which is now the third reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. Let me say that a decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. I don't think there's any need for an explanation of vote here, so we're just voting. Thank you very much. 76 Members and Members are present. The motion for a decision was voted 73 and against 2. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against two.]] So the decision is taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Tuesday 4.10.2005 after the end of the agenda of this meeting. The assembly service will prepare a review to include the amendment to Article 3 and, of course, the article in which the amendment was adopted. The amendments to this Article or the amendment may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the same meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the interrupted 10th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on veterinary compliance criteria. Here we have several amendments, namely the amendment to Article 6 tabled by the SDS, NSI and SLS Members. Would anyone like to explain himself on behalf of these parliamentary groups or in his own voice? Mr. Weber, on his behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u344	On behalf of the Group of Members. In short, I would just like to draw attention to the amendments to Article 6. Our opinion is that we should also vote first on the second amendment, because it is more substantively distant than Article 6, which was adopted in second reading by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. If this can be taken into account, it is likely that the decision of the President will be taken. Otherwise, the content of both amendments is far from identical. The amendment proposed in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats is that at least once it is mandatory to review a veterinarian. This is an official review, which is also required by the Council of Europe in its rules. Since this is a task imposed by the European Community or in this case when we adopt this law, our country too, we propose that this review be free of charge for animal owners or that we pay this cost from the budget. This ensures at least once an annual review of the official veterinarian and thus provides great security on the market itself; this market is no longer only Slovenian, the European Union as a whole. In particular, it shall be ensured that the holder of the animal is not confronted with any problems which could result in poor food on the market. Also with regard to the solution proposed by the other parliamentary groups, in order for the Minister to prescribe for herself both the method of financing and the more detailed conditions for the prescribed regular veterinary review, we believe that there are too many provisions in the law, which are directly decided by the Minister, and this also indicates that the law is not most suitable for such a sensitive area as veterinary medicine. We therefore propose that you support the amendments of our Group of Members and, finally, that we really improve the content of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Personally and also in the Group of Members, we believe that this is an amendment that improves the existing law, thereby giving Slovenian farmers a greater opportunity on the European market to better control their products and, on the other hand, providing greater security for the Slovenian consumer and discharges the Minister's heavy liability in the event of unforeseen problems. That is why I am of the opinion, and I will personally support this amendment, because it is better than the amendment proposed by the coalition, which also means some improvement in the law, but not to the extent proposed by the Social Democrats. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that here the clear provisions say that the budget is no longer burdensome for already impoverished Slovenian farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Let me reiterate that it is possible to explain the vote for the two amendments tabled. If not, we first decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 6. We're voting. That's all I'm saying, I'm sorry, I dropped the vote because I didn't read your note. In fact, if this amendment is adopted, then the amendment under point 2 of the amendment of the Social Democrats becomes irrelevant. I apologize again for this technical problem. We're voting again. There are 76 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 29. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 29.]] The amendment was accepted. The amendment of the Social Democrats is irrelevant to Article 6. We are moving on to the 84th article of the bill, namely the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS sent groups and the amendment of the same content of the SD Group of Members. Is there anyone here who would like to explain the voice on behalf of the parliamentary group or in their own? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 63 votes against 7. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment was therefore adopted. We have two more amendments to Article 88. The first is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. If this amendment is adopted, then the amendment tabled by the SDS, NSI and SLS members to the same Article becomes irrelevant. First of all, we are voting on the amendment of the Socialist Group of Members. Would anyone like to explain your voice? Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u348	In this case, too, I think that the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members is better, more appropriate. It ensures that this register, which relates mainly to poultry and pigs, will be established significantly more efficiently and earlier, as the task imposed by the coalition to the Ministry in order to ensure this in one year can also be difficult or impossible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u349	Anyone else? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] This means that the amendment has not been adopted and that we can decide on the second amendment to the same article as that tabled by SDS, NSI and SLS. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment and explain their voice? I guess not. So we're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 60 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. With regard to the new 106.a., let me say the following. Please listen carefully, and the session will be over! In accordance with Rule 135(7) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments may be applied only to the amendment of the law, in accordance with Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, both amendments to the new 106.a Article are irrelevant. This also ended the debate on the amendments. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the bill-maker. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u350	Thank you for your word. In this case, the Government also proposes that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a third examination of the law at that meeting be carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u351	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that procedural proposal. Let me say that a decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 68 votes against 1. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law on Tuesday, 4 October, following the conclusion of the final item of the agenda of this meeting. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and also the articles to which they have been tabled. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This also interrupts this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on social protection. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Protection Act is not suitable for further consideration. Would anyone like to explain their vote on this decision? I guess not. We're voting. There were 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 26. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on state administration - the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, and it is not possible to submit them in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. I'm informing you that the government or the legal and regulatory services have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Anybody want a word? On behalf of the delegation, Mr. Cwickl?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u352	Procedural first, if you please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u353	Okay, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u354	If I heard you correctly, President, did you say that the law enforcement department has informed you that this law is not in conflict with what?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u355	To make the marriage inconsistent.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u356	I think that this law is substantively inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I therefore propose that it be first determined whether there is a discrepancy between this law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u357	Mr Cwickl, I have not received such a notice from two qualified applicants, that is, our legislative and legal services and the bill-maker, so I do not think that the rules of procedure allow me any other way and that I am arbitrating myself whether I will do anything else or not. I don't think there's any more reason for an additional procedural explanation. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u358	I could only upgrade myself where my colleague Swickl finished when you said there were no reasons for procedural and that the legislative and legal service did not inform you of the non-compliance of the law with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have before me the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, where it finds that it is inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so I ask that the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service be told whether this is true, as the opinion puts it, or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u359	Given the circumstances and the uncertainties, I propose that we decide on this tomorrow after the end of the agenda. We probably can't solve this right now. That's why I'm breaking this agenda. I also adjourn the 9th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good evening, everybody. And another warning. I'd like to ask you a little bit more. The consultation with the body presidents will be at 8:30 tomorrow. Thank you very much.
