ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u1	Your Honor! I begin the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Anton Anderlich, mag. Milan Squeakle, Victory Jelinčič Noble, mag. Janez Kramberger, Breda Pečan, Dr Mitja Slavinec and Mag. Anton Rop. At the meeting I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. Please check your cards. Surely there are enough Members and Members of the National Assembly. The second time, we will vote on the agenda. Please pay attention to the cards, whether they are inserted and on the right side of the top light. Thank you for your attention. We're voting. Third time we'll vote in ten minutes, that's 2.50. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. We will vote for the third time. I'm asking you again to check your cards. We will vote on the establishment of the agenda as proposed by the reference to an extraordinary meeting. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 8. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the agenda for the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. Before we move to point one, I need to inform you of the following. Until the additional deadline for the submission of the amendments, until the beginning of the meeting, we received one amendment. Before the amendment, the mother’s working body must first be defined. The mother's working body may also propose its amendments by the beginning of the 1st item of the agenda. I am also informing you that we have agreed at the college or that we have heard initiatives to begin the rebalancing process as soon as possible, because we have a 15-hour debate ahead of us. For this reason, I propose that, unless there is another procedural proposal, the mother's working body be immediately occupied by 4 p.m. I'm sure they'll be processing their amendment within an hour, and eventually they'll be accepting their own. We would continue at 4:30 p.m. and work today until about 6:30 p.m. With the opportunity to hear today's presentation of the Minister for Finance and the presentations of the parliamentary groups. Since the Prime Minister is in Brussels today and tomorrow at the European Council, his presentation would be scheduled for Monday at 10 a.m. as we proceed with the consideration of the balance. Once again, at the time of consideration of the rebalancing, we would be familiar with only the positions of the parliamentary groups and the presentation of the minister and the working body, which is until about 6.30 p.m.; tomorrow, after the regular session, we would continue with the rebalancing until 6 p.m. and so we would have only 10 hours left to deal with it on Monday from 10 p.m. to 2 p.m. That's how we'd avoid late night work. Unless there's another proposal, it's a timetable. Now I'm asking my mother's working body, the Finance Committee, to gather in the big salon. At 4 p.m., we'll resume the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT IS ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE REBALANCE OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE YEAR 2005. I am informed that the Committee on Finance has completed its work and that their report will be on the table at any time. The proposal for a budget rebalancing was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bajuk, who will present the proposal for a 2005 budget rebalancing. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The 2005 budget rebalancing before you had to be prepared due to the new macroeconomic frameworks and, above all, the expenditure or commitments already undertaken were not foreseen in the adopted budget, which is now in force. Although the law on the implementation of the budget allows for reallocation between individual programmes or purposes, unfortunately these commitments are too much. A more correct and, above all, a more transparent way of correcting the budget is a rebalancing. At the home work body and at the meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, there was a reflection on the legality of the introduction of the budget balance into the National Assembly, since the Government had drawn up a rebalance without the transitional measures it allowed, but did not require, Article 40 of the Public Finance Act. We knew that measures to balance the budget would not solve the problems on the expenditure side, as there was a need to provide 70 billion additional expenditure. We have estimated that it is not appropriate to stop taking on commitments, extend payment deadlines or suspend redeployments, as none of these measures would solve the problem. Moreover, and this is crucial, and the law on the implementation of the budget for 2004 and 2005 in its 52nd Article even requires us to draw up a 2005 budget balance, if this is necessary in view of economic developments. A new assessment of budgetary revenues showed that 63.9 billion more revenue than originally planned in the adopted 2005 budget will be generated in 2005. There are also more projected expenditure, namely 43.7 billion, on the one hand due to unforeseen and unplanned 70 billion more expenditure, and on the other hand to the reduction of other expenditure by measures envisaged by the government. The most important fact about this rebalancing is that the budget deficit initially estimated at 1.7% of GDP, or 112 billion, decreases to 1.4% of GDP, or 91.9 billion. The calculation of the cyclical and structural component of the state budget shows that the structural deficit of the budget last year, not only of the budget but of all three cash registers, amounted to 1.4% of gross domestic product. Taking into account this 2005 balance, this deficit is 1.15% in the budget and the other three cash registers, which is a structural deficit. All this deficit data is presented on the basis of the domestic methodology and has been prepared by the Ministry of Finance’s professional services. We must be aware, however, that it is necessary for the European Commission to report on the so-called ESA 75 methodology. What has been published several times in the media last week is that the European Commission estimates that our deficit will be ours, and this is a deficit in the wider sector of the country, even higher than we have predicted, I have to take this opportunity today and say in this room that this is simply not the case. The European Commission's report correctly states that the State Budget Commission has taken into account the data from the 2005 budget adopted and, unfortunately, our media has not mentioned it, which was projected to have a higher deficit of 1.7% from now on proposed in this balance by 1.4% of the gross domestic product. In the last convergence programme, which we forwarded to the European Commission in May 2004 and also resubmitted in early 2005, Slovenia anticipated a deficit of 2.1% of the gross domestic product from the wider sector. On the basis of old data for the state budget, the European Commission estimated our deficit to be 2.2% in 2005. We are confident that the Commission will change its assessments and correct them when they include data on our balance in their calculations, as long as it is accepted. There is something else to say, however, that the Commission for a large majority of European countries has estimated that their deficit will be higher than the countries themselves have estimated. Let me mention only Germany, Greece, Italy, Great Britain, Hungary and Poland, therefore, Slovenia is no exception, and the Commission will certainly have to update its assessment, update it with new data when the budget balance is confirmed. We estimate that the general government deficit in 2005 will be around 1.6% of the gross domestic product, much lower than originally forecast, as I mentioned in the last convergence programme, 2.1%. While we are talking about the wider sector of the country, another important fact needs to be mentioned, namely the takeover of the debt of the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia and the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. In the consolidated balance sheet of the wider sector of the country, this does not mean any change in the extent of indebtedness. However, we estimate that the country will be able to service the existing debt more cheaply and thus indirectly reduce the cost of the country. The fact is that, in accordance with the legislation in force in the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, debt should not come at all, as the State budget should cover the difference between the revenue and expenditure of the institution. In addition to taking over the debt of the ZPIZ and the Health Insurance Authority, the government decided to repay the RS-06 bonds early this year, those being issued for the rehabilitation of the banking sector, which means a reduction in the debt of the country of 82.3 billion tolars. In order to carry out the transaction, the buying-in assets from the sale of the NLB share were definitively used in accordance with the law. The basic objective of the purchase is to reduce public debt, which ensures long-term maximum fiscal effects while taking monetary effects into account, all of this in accordance with and in agreement with the Bank of Slovenia. In addition to the debt reduction, this will help to directly increase the sustainability of the fiscal balance, including by reducing the expenditure of the debt servicing budget of 2.5 billion dollars in 2005 and from 2 to 5 billion dollars in subsequent individual budget years to including 2015, all of this measured according to the ESA-95 methodology. As I mentioned at the outset, more revenue will flow into the state budget this year for 63.9 billion tolars. There will be more tax revenues, for a poor third, 20.6 billion, as well as tax revenues, for 28.8 billion. There are also more projected revenue from the European Union budget, namely 12.7 billion - total 63.9 billion. Here, I would like to point out that the Slovenian Government is aware of the risks of forecasting revenue from the EU budget, especially after last year's experience, when the envisaged funding from the European Union budget for structural and cohesion policy was neither spent nor spent. We will all have to work together to make this year different and, above all, better. Together with our fellow Minister for Local Self-Government, Dr. Zhagar, we will regularly monitor the progress of individual projects and propose measures that can improve the situation. The first in a series of measures is certainly the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures, which was dealt with by the National Assembly at yesterday's meeting. This will help to speed up the conclusion of some of the procedures that are now taking place inadvertently long, by including legal protection for potential suppliers in this bill, which has already been examined and adopted, as well as legal protection for the contracting authority. I believe that the proposal for the 2005 budget rebalancing on the revenue side is conservative, restrictive, which means that we can have certain reserves in the light of good economic developments, in particular with regard to oil prices and the euro rate compared to the tolar. The realisation of tax revenues in the first five months of 2005 shows us that we are on the safe side of the proposal for a rebalancing. Even lower growth of gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2005, according to our assessment and assessment, some Slovenian economists will not be at risk of forecast revenues, as a stronger growth of gross domestic product is expected in the second half of the year. Much also depends on the situation abroad, which we have no decisive or almost no influence on. Once again, I would like to stress: the assessment of tax revenues is restrictive or conservative. Many times it has already been mentioned that the rebalancing needed to cover 70 billion commitments that were not foreseen in the budget. This is the case: 9.4 billion tolars - salaries and contributions of employees in the state administration. If the number of employees were to decrease, as anticipated by the previous government in its programmes, it would be necessary to provide less money for salaries and contributions. However, as wishes and forecasts did not come true, the number of employees even increased, public administration employees had to be provided with funds for salaries and contributions in accordance with the collective agreement. So that's the reason for 9.4 billion. Additional 32.8 billion - for salaries in public institutions. Most of these funds are spent on salaries in primary and secondary schools, 12.5 billion and 5 billion. The rest are waste on higher schools and also public institutions in other areas, such as culture, the environment and agriculture. In this case, too, there are under-planned funds, which are, in other words, already committed and cannot be curtailed, at least not in such a short time. However, with regard to the warnings or comments made to the Committee on Education, Culture and Sport, I must clarify and make clear certain facts, namely the comparison between the budgets adopted by the Ministry of Education and Implementation over the last three years. On the investment item, realisation has always been declining as it was always necessary to make a reallocation at the end of the year, including for wages. In 2002, investments soared by 26% of planned investments, while for the same amount they also increased the funds for salaries. Also in 2003, they had to increase their wages by up to 6.4 billion tolars. In 2004, investment funds projected had to be reduced by 3.9 billion tolars, while for a total of 11.5 billion, almost 6, increased through reallocation, in the last month to cover salaries. However, as investments in primary and secondary schools have been particularly exposed, I will pay particular attention to these investments. The story repeats itself. 2 billion reduced investments at the last minute in 2002, and 2003 as well, 3 billion in 2004, and so on. It takes into account the fact that, in this year's rebalancing of the budget for salaries in public institutions, real planning will not be necessary at the end of the year to redistribute and abolish or close investment in progress, as has been the practice of the last few years, since investment in primary and secondary schools is only envisaged for 426 million less than in the adopted budget. In education itself, it would be necessary to highlight transfers to public institutions and salaries that are the most increasing and where, since 2000, very unrealistic plans have been made for everything since 2000 and the adoption of the budget is very different from the actual implementation at the end of the year. As I mentioned earlier, in 2002 this difference was 3.7 billion, in 2003 5.4 billion, in 2004 11.3 and in 2005 18.4 billion - poorly planned wage funds, was insufficient. Let me continue with the additional commitments of the rebalancing that have not been covered in the adopted budget. 3.2 billion for transfers to individuals, of which 2.7 transfers for social security. 2 billion to cover already assumed contractual obligations until Revoz. 8.4 billion to settle cash guarantees. 4.2 billion to pay the liability to the fund of craftsmen and entrepreneurs under the law adopted in this National Assembly in 2001. 10 billion additional funds to maintain the railway infrastructure. 2.5 billion for natural disaster reserves, where we already have commitments under individual government decisions or laws and individual disaster management programmes for 6.7 billion. In addition, there are additional obligations that have already been undertaken, to say the least. The government must also confirm the programme of storms in Slovenian Horses and floods in October 2004 at approximately cca. 990 billion, totaling 7.7 billion. Together with the budget fund designed for these purposes, 8.7 billion tolars are available for natural disasters in 2005. Finally, it is necessary to mention another 1 billion and a half Slovenian tolls for the construction of the southern border, originally envisaged from the resources of the Schengen resource, and it has been shown that the investments envisaged will not be financed from the Szehengen resource. However, since Slovenia has to implement the integration project and provide conditions for the establishment of the Schengen border, it was necessary to seek domestic resources and to ensure the construction of the southern border facilities in accordance with the programme. Despite much of the evidence and estimates that the balance sheet is not development-oriented and that we are spending too much on the country's current consumption, we believe that this does not hold that this balance is no less development-oriented; even more so, I think it is much more than in previous budgets, where the funds for investment in the budgets adopted have indeed been planned on a higher scale, but unfortunately this has not been the case. Every year, investment funds were redistributed for current consumption. In fact, investment in the proposed budget is expected to increase by 20% in 2005, a pardon, by 23%, which is a total of 32 billion more than it was realized in 2004. Dear Members and Members! The government has drawn up a rebalancing that does not really include all the priorities of the new government, because it cannot because of time constraints, and because we have finally only taken up a certain position, as we are correcting with this rebalancing. Two priorities I would certainly like to highlight, this is the area of justice, where the resources to work and improve the working conditions of the courts are greatly increasing and I hope that we will take a major step in this area already in 2005. And the area of culture, which has been somewhat neglected in recent years. We will make sure that the share of cultural resources will also rise in the coming years, thus helping to improve cultural education and awareness. Culture is an area that, even after Slovenia's entry into the EU, remains in exclusive national competence and is therefore even more dependent on the state budget. We must try to promote cultural diversity and preserve the Slovenian language, and this will be one of the priorities of the Slovenian government in the future. Dear Members and honourable Members! In any case, the 2005 budget rebalancing is prepared in frameworks that enable Slovenia to pursue the objectives set in the Convergence Programme, and more importantly, we are pursuing the objectives that will lead us or enable us to enter the euro area. The balance of accounts for this year is prepared to allow the implementation of the budget without limitation and major reallocation. It is a good basis for drawing up the 2006 and 2007 budgets that we are already preparing at the Ministry of Finance. In the next two budgets, however, the priorities and programmes of the new government must and will also be included, as this is our commitment, especially to the electorate and to the electorate, as well as to you, Members and Members of the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u5	Thank you, Minister. The draft budget balance was also addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Bojan Starman, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I welcome the ministers and other government representatives and, of course, everyone else here is present. At its 5th meeting, on 13.6.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy and the following meeting, on 14.6.2005, considered the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the marathon session, which lasted almost 30 hours, unfortunately, much too much time has been spent in order to delay the session as constructive discussions, but the Committee has defined itself both to the general budget and to the 77 amendments that we have considered and some have confirmed, but some have not. In the general part of the budget, the issue of the legal basis for this balance of accounts was first raised, and much debate was debated, and, as I have already said, all 77 amendments, 6 of which were confirmed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and proposed to the National Assembly that it should also be accepted. It also adopted two additional conclusions. I hereby conclude the report of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Starman. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Cyril Testen will speak on behalf of New Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable ministers with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! According to the New Slovenia Group, the 2005 budget rebalancing is done in the same direction as is most necessary in the current situation in Slovenia, and we also support it in our Group. We are convinced that the government has listened mainly in those areas that will allow Slovenia to achieve the objectives set by the Coalition Treaty, such as the adoption of the euro from 1.1.2007, the establishment of the Schengen border also in 2007, stable economic development as well as balanced public spending. If we stop at first a little bit at the 2005 budget rebalancing revenue, we can find that these are significantly higher than they were adopted in the preparation of the 2003 two-year budget, for a total of SIT 69.9 billion. Compared to the implementation of the 2004 budget, however, revenues are higher than SIT 167.7 billion. While it has to be acknowledged that in 2003 it was difficult to plan revenue for 2005, especially since during this time Slovenia joined the EU and some movements, which are also linked to entry, were difficult to plan. We believe that the income forecasts of the rebalancing will be realized, especially because they have forecasts at the heart of the borders based on the monitoring of macroeconomic developments. A few more of us in the New Slovenia Group are concerned about the realisation of those budgetary revenues that are linked to the drawing-up of funds from European funds. It is clear that we have too few programmes in some areas, and it is also clear that there will be great efforts to achieve the European Union's set revenues. It is obvious that, despite repeated warnings at the time of entry into the European Union for the purpose of drawing funds, we were poorly prepared. As a result, we used only about 50% of the available resources in 2004. This issue is particularly acute at local levels, where there is a lack of knowledge beyond the necessary resources to prepare appropriate projects. Here, in our view, we should develop and play a decisive role for the development centres at the so-called regional and also lower levels. Although the representatives of the former government are right when they claim that when they did not make use of the resources available, we did not lose anything definitively. It is true, however, that all unused resources from outstanding and current rights will have to be used by the end of 2006, which will increase the work volume of the current government. It is also true that the available funds must be used as soon as possible because they are less valuable every day and it is also useful that the planned investment is built as soon as possible. The expenditure is part of the 2005 budget balance, which is the most interesting for consumers and also for Members, and by which we estimate it to be more or less successful from different perspectives. Above all, it has often been heard by opposition Members that the 2005 budget rebalancing is weak, that it is not development-oriented, that there is too much pay for the public sector, that this is a missed opportunity, which means a step back for Slovenia. In New Slovenia, we do not agree with such statements because we believe that the expenditure part of the budget has given emphasis and priority to those projects and budgetary users that have been unduly neglected in the past, while at the same time following a coalition agreement that highlights more coherent regional development as one of the priorities. The 2005 budget rebalancing focused on those ministries which bear the main burden of development and especially on investment work. It is also often heard on some committees that the balance sheet is good, but it could be much better if it were not necessary to patch a 70 billion-billion-dollar hole due to the poor planning of the previous government. I will continue to touch on some of the proposals in the balance, which according to the New Slovenia Group, due to the importance of special attention, we are more or less satisfied with them in the Group of Members. In the public sector, wages have also increased by 9.4 billion or 4.3%, which in our view is not good and is also not in line with the coalition contract, which foresees a reduction in the number of employees in the public sector and also a reduction in wages in the share of gross social product. The increase in the share of wage funds is mainly due to the unimplemented measures planned by the Government in 2004. These measures are mainly intended to reduce the number of employees and to reduce the cost of transport to work. In addition, in 2004 and 2005, there was an increase in the starting wage over-planned, resulting from an agreement between the social partners. For the transport sector, which has been highly criticised in the media and also by the opposition, it is necessary to note that more resources have been planned with the budget's rebalancing than the previous government had planned, and significantly more than 20% of what was realised for transport in 2004. It is true, however, that the priorities have changed slightly and that for 7.4 billion more road transport resources, 8.8 billion less road transport and 4.5 billion more for transport and air transport. Regarding road transport, we would also like to say in Novi Slovenija that in the past they had the advantage of building a highway and that state roads were neglected. In Slovenia there are areas that are also 100 kilometers away from the nearest highway connection. We believe that in the coming years, more attention and more resources will need to be paid to state roads. There is no doubt that there is a proposal in the 2005 budget balance for the economy, which provides for more resources for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, improved conditions for domestic and foreign investors, and, more importantly, much more resources to promote and promote tourism. We have only talked about tourism in recent years when concrete support was needed, but there has always been a shortage of resources, and according to the New Slovenia Group, it is also positive that many more funds are available for incentives in agriculture and for the restructuring of the food-processing industry, which is undoubtedly an important sector. There is much talk in the public that there is a lack of funding for investments and it is often the case that such claims are also found in the media. Those who have carefully reviewed the proposal for the 2005 budget rebalancing could, however, find that investments are expected to be 10 billion less than originally planned, but in the same breath it is necessary to say that investment funds are higher than those realized in 2004 by 32 billion, which is 23.1% more, or realistically by 20.1% more. Investment funds represent 9.63% of the budget, which is extremely high in recent years, if we know that the investment portion of the budget has rarely reached 9%. A large positive shift represents a substantial number of resources for justice, for a total of 6 billion, which is undoubtedly also a major shift in the positive direction and will provide the courts with material opportunities for better work and consequently for reducing backlogs, which are a major problem for our country. As one of the most important decisions of the budget rebalancing candidates, we must certainly mention significantly greater resources, particularly for those municipalities that are financed by appropriate spending or so-called principals. These municipalities were raised by around 10% or by 7.32%, which is more real growth than the municipalities' funds increased in all four years of the previous government. In recent years, the state has imposed obligations on the municipalities, but when it was necessary to raise funds for appropriate spending, the money for the municipalities has usually run out. Indirectly and also directly to the budget's rebalancing, a new pension law is also linked, which is being substantially amended in view of the past. The aim of the new pension legislation is in particular to reduce the backlog of salaries. In Novi Slovenija, we agree with the new pension law, since we have consistently warned that the backlog of pensions behind salaries is too great. We are currently spending about 11% of the gross social product on pensions, which is less than four years ago, although the number of pensioners has increased. They are undoubtedly engaged in similar problems in most European countries and are looking for solutions in the direction of extending working time because it is acceptable for a short period of time and will most likely need to think in a similar direction with us. For the longer term, according to the New Slovenia Group, the only and best solution is to improve demographic image. Otherwise, if the number of older people continues to increase so intensively, we will have problems not only with pensions but also with other budget lines. In the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, the government's positive decision to take over the pension debt and the debt of medical bills is undoubtedly because we are convinced that the Ministry of Finance can service the debt from the loans hired. Finally, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I would just like to say that we were disturbed by the comparison of the original budget with the 2005 budget rebalancing. The 2005 budget was, in our opinion, a list of wishes on which wishes were entered, which apparently were not consistently recorded, and therefore caused a lot of difficulties in preparing the balance. In our view, it is certainly more reasonable to compare the rebalancing with that of the previous year, only in this way can we assess how much development possibilities have increased in relation to the previous year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Testen. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Josip Bajc will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers and representatives of the government, all together, a nice welcome to this day, when after several meetings of the individual home work bodies at which we discussed the proposal for a budget rebalancing, we are also starting the consideration of the 2005 balance of accounts at the plenary session of this National Assembly. In the case of the Slovenian People's Party, it is estimated that, with the proposed 2005 budget rebalancing, it is prepared for the new indicators on the revenue side of the budget as well as for the coverage by law of commitments made either in 2003, 204 or 2005, which were not covered in the 2005 budget in force. We also assess that from some items of the proposed budget rebalancing it is possible to detect the inclusion of some of the priorities set by the government in order to realize them in 2005. We also note that certain transfers have also been made and in accordance with the law, resulting from last year's amended Government Act. We also assess the positive decision of both the Minister of Finance and the Government itself that, with more inflows this year, part of this tide has not been redistributed in the budget balance, but has decided to reduce the deficit of the budget this year; however, Mr Bajuk spoke of concrete figures. We also welcome the fact that the proposal for a budget rebalancing has not led to a change in the financial plans of at least the majority of some non-governmental budget consumers. However, we expect that the National Assembly will not accept the amendment adopted on the home labour body, which further reduces the expenditure side of the State Council. Despite the desire that funds for the financing of local communities could be substantially increased, as we all know that the budgets of most Slovene municipalities are undernourished, we are pleased that there has been at least a partial increase in the so-called principals, which provides additional funds of 10%, compared to 2004. And we note that at least some municipalities will be able to implement or pay with these additional funds those obligations that the municipalities received under different laws in 2004 and 2005 and thus have not received additional resources to cover these tasks, but that appropriate consumption in 2004 and 2005 was actually raised only on the basis of the inflation growth index. We also assess and expect that the funds allocated by our country in this year's budget rebalancing, as well as the funds expected to flow into our budget from the so-called various structural funds of the European Union, will be able to spend substantially differently than they did in 2004, and that in 2005, at least we expect and hope, as net recipients and not net contributors, as we were likely for various reasons in 2004. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also assess that the correct comparison was made at least at all times on the Finance Committee, but I think that other committees were also used by the government and its representatives when they compared the 2004 budget implementation data with the 2005 budget rebalancing figures. And I am joining my colleague, Testen, who said that there is a much more realistic comparison of those data that you actually spent for certain areas in a year than with the data that you planned to use in 2003 in 2004 or 2005. And just as the consistent government was in justifying and comparing the 2004 budget implementation data with the 2004 budget rebalancing, so the majority of the amendments, at least on the Finance Committee, when we treated them as the parent labour force, were also consistent and the opposition Members used this comparison consistently. And if I were to give specific information, if most of these amendments were accepted, or the amendments that were dealt with, about 12.7 billion would be taken away from the Ministry of Defence and I think that about a billion 700 million would be redeployed from the same ministry. Today, I said in the following meeting of the Committee on Finance: "It seems that by adopting this budget we would virtually eliminate or find that we do not need the Ministry of Defence at all." Not to be a suggestion. We assess with the Slovenian People's Party's parliamentary groups that, according to the legal provisions, according to the revenue and expenditure, the budget rebalancing proposal is, to the extent possible, to the extent that we will be able to reach what is still available in the next nine months or as long as it remains until the end of this year, and we expect that the budget rebalancing is actually prepared so that the Minister of Finance will not have to adopt a decision in October or November on, say, ending the commitment to the 2005 budget, as Minister Marble should have done in 2004, without assessing whether there has been any misplanning and adoption of the budget, or whether there have been any expenditure, I will say, in such a way that certain pre-election promises could be provided in 2004.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Sašo Pece will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! I am sorry that I cannot share the enthusiasm of both speakers before me on the content of these acts, i.e. the rebalances as the most important public financial acts in our country. I am convinced, however, that it would be much more responsible on the part of everyone who comes to this speaker, especially when we are talking about such important, once again, public financial acts, that we speak first and foremost in real terms, but not by instilling in this speaker some controversies, attempts to implement or incorporate the programme of a particular political party into the balance sheet, in other words, into the correction of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. According to my assessment, we are primarily indebted to citizens and citizens to show them the real picture of what lies ahead during the 2005 correction period, not to talk to them about numbers from this place or to talk about words that are not later reflected in numbers. And if with certainty we can say anything about this budget, then with certainty we can say that this is a budget or a rebalancing of the idea that this is one of those learning cases where there is an extremely big difference between word and action. The fact is that around the budget about its developmental orientation, its investment orientation, its European orientation was very much discussed by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and by government Members. However, let it be possible that you, the viewers, or those interested in the public financial picture in our country may also come across a different view of the budget mentioned today. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has pointed out several times, both on the working bodies and in the written explanation of the balance or budget, because in the final stage it is one and the same, competitiveness as one of the objectives - to increase competitiveness. Of course, I am talking about entrepreneurship, about innovation, about developmental orientation as the basis of prosperity. And this act that's before us today is supposed to help. This is what the government is talking about, and that is what the government is telling us, and that is probably what we will be convinced by government Members. But like I said, you're in the act itself, in its contents, as long as we look at the numbers, not just the text part, but it turns out that the story is completely different. I'm sorry, I'm probably as sorry as you who reviewed the budget. To talk about public finances that promote GDP growth through both elements, i.e. through the elements of entrepreneurship and competitiveness - this is not the case in this budget. This budget does not pursue these two objectives that contribute to GDP growth. According to my assessment, the budget proposalr has, of course, gone wrong when he solely and exclusively began to pursue some of the five, not all five, but only a few convergence criteria and subordinated the entire prosperity of our country, which, of course, began and continued to neglect his own country, namely the Slovenes and the Slovenes. Because the entire public financial situation in our country has been subjected to the pursuit of two of the five convergence criteria. There was a lot of talk about the enterprise sector. A very interesting expression of the entrepreneurial sector. And I'm going to start with the other sector on the other side, and I'm going to call it the individual sector. The sector of individuals is in the budget or in the balance, according to my assessment, if we take the criteria of rigidity or elasticity, equal to zero. This government is also continuing with tax revenues on about the same system as the previous government. And where did that get us? In an extremely large public debt, a deficit in all cash registers, where the state has its fingers in addition and, of course, in the debt of every individual, including one who is not yet of age, that the value of the debt of him, that is, not yet a full-year-old child, exceeds or goes strong over 800 000 Slovenian tolars, because in the past ten years and several years, with as easy as today's two speakers before me, have adopted and confirmed such unquality public financial laws as this one before us. But because all of you are easily taking such budgetary acts, because, of course, individually each of us will not be hit by the pocket, but over a longer period of time the sumarum is aware of the damage caused by the ease of taking such acts. When I mentioned the entrepreneurial sector referred to by the proposer, as I said before, on the working body, on the working body concerned and, after all, on the working body, on the ground, it is our view that the correct assumptions of the Slovenian National Party on the irregularity of this budget are made. Today, however, we also face, at least in our assessment, an illogical situation, which I sincerely hope will be able to show in the available time. See, the balance is foreseen, although no one talks about it, reducing investment and development programmes, but not in a way that citizens and citizens can understand. Even more, the explanation of the draft act before us states that resources to promote the competitiveness of the economy, which, of course, is essential in the context of the new markets of the European Union, are increasing by 78%. Whoever reads this probably thinks it's fantastic. This is one of those sentences following a once-in-a-lifetime legislative initiative of the Slovenian National Party to help companies that will start to forgive workers on behalf of the European Union due to non-competitiveness. Later, however, the National Assembly did not adopt the previous government of that Slovenian National Party Act. But let me go back to that act that is before us today. It has been written down and it is said that funds to increase the competitiveness of the economy are increasing by 78%. However, if you look a little deeper and the truth into your eyes, you see that it is only about helping Revoz and helping some municipalities invest in business zones. If we subtract these two elements, namely Revoz and assistance to some municipalities, we see that the budget or rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year 2005 which is ahead of us today reduces the amount envisaged to increase competitiveness by more than half. But the government of the Republic of Slovenia is probably very interesting and in an easy way to show an increase, while it does not speak of direction and where it went. However, the real picture is that in 2005 financial expenditure or money to raise competitiveness by more than half as compared to the previous year is being reduced. In addition to this, it should also be said that the instruments for the development of enterprises in new markets are being abolished, i.e. when competitiveness funds are being reduced. It is also horrifying that the technological investment promotion programme is completely abolished, that the ratio of one to another in favour, if we look only in 1996, took 25%, in the proposed balance that is ahead of us today, only 7.2%. In any case, I think it is worth pointing out from this city - and I regret that the Minister himself failed to do so, in other words, that he did not have the credibility to point out the following matter - that there was also an unreasonable situation, at least for me and within the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, an unreasonable reduction in the financial resources for the active employment policy that you are currently taking from Members over 2 billion Slovenian Tolars, in the given situation, when we know that 40,000 new unemployed people will be lost due to the failure, unfortunately, of Slovenian companies in the new European markets, reducing investment in technology, reducing everything by the kind of investment that we can mark or give them a common denominator of synergies, and that the area of active employment policy will reduce the country by 2 billion Slovenian Tolars. a.k.a. However, I would like to touch on the general part of the budget in the available time available to me. It may seem to some Members who are following these discussions a year, two or three years ago, to speak the same thing, but I am obliged to speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members until it hits fertile ground, as it is the intention of each of us to make the content of his words effective. If we look at the general part of the budget and if we stop on the revenue side, one of the speakers, I think he came from the New Slovenia Group of Members, he said that we like to stop on the expenditure side. I'll say that he's probably holding this in the hands of irresponsible Members of Parliament. However, I think that responsible Members must first deal with the revenue side. This is what the RS, the executive branch of power, takes from the citizens. Of course, if he picks up, something has to be returned. But the fact is, first of all, we need to look at this side of Slovenian politics, what Slovenian government policy is taking and how. And I'd like to talk to you about the way it is for the next few minutes. When we look at the composition of budgetary revenue, we see that it consists of two main groups, tax revenue and non-tax revenue, tax revenue is also under a government that has always opposed the above-mentioned ratio of 92, 96 to 8 and 4 and has made the same move as the previous government. The structure of the budget is the same as in previous mandates, to obtain money exclusively or more than 90% through those resources that citizens must settle in physical or legal form, because if they do not settle, they are subject to sanctions. Sanctions are different forms. One of these is that in any way he is friendly, which is rarely, usually in an unfriendly way, physically or forcefully, taken away from him. To see that only during the period of the 2005 budget adopted and to date, i.e. the proposal for a rebalancing, tax revenues have increased by 20 billion Slovenian tolls, I think this is a rather horrifying figure. And if we look at this as increasing taxes on profit revenue by 16 billion 900, and if we look at it differently, that domestic taxes on goods and services are also increasing by 880 million, while only excise duties are rising by over 200 million, I think that in no way can this be proud of the national assembly and none of us can say that this budget is development-oriented. On the other hand, if we look at recent revenues, we see that they are increasing by 28 billion. And what's very interesting is the item "participation in profits and income from assets", which is later listed in Class 7, including sales of state property, we see that these are increasing by 26 billion. From this town, I think it is very sensible to talk about the debate that my fellow Member, Happy Friend, triggered yesterday on the working body, about the marital lack of acts that discuss the way in which sales are made and the course of sales. We are required by the law on the implementation of the budget, the result of which or the cause of which, however we look at it, is a rebalance to define the system of sales. Yesterday you amended ZIPRO, the law on the implementation of the budget, did not change it in those articles which would necessarily need to be amended, paragraphs 80 and 80d, or on the basis of them to make a sales programme reflecting an increase in non-tax revenue. And despite Mr Srečko Friend's explicit proposal for a decision, there was no member on the home working body to defend the transparency that we have proposed within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm another from this town, as if sometimes we think you're being unrealistic in such very important areas as public finances or perhaps otherwise said that you want intransparency, I can't say. I had hoped, until the rebalancing came into the state budget, that we would finally get on the table a different way of raising funds from our citizens and citizens. But no, the story remains about the same as it was in previous mandates in previous years. And where did that get us? In this public financial picture, as we have today, i.e. in debt per capita, in debt at home, in debt to commercial banks, in short, in an extremely large debt. At the same time, of course, everyone seems to want to forget about the basics of economics, I would even say, because it is so familiar, the common human fact that if you once borrow something, it is necessary to return it, but more than you can borrow should be returned, so we should consider this in order to reject this kind of financial proposal as offered by Dr. Bayuk, Finance Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. On behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Willi Rezman will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and a very nice greeting to everyone. I'm going to try to briefly present our position and also the point of all that I'm going to say at the beginning. Certainly, the debate on the balance and the budget is one of those that is of great interest, giving an opportunity to controversy, but also gives an opportunity to reconsider and perhaps correct some of our views. Therefore, the point of our views is that it is worth reconsidering and not just rejecting everything "anblock". Of all the 77 amendments, it's certainly not possible to find the bad ones themselves. There is also one that is worthy of support. It is not expected of general agreement, of course, that we will not all be thrilled, certainly who would want something different to look at and certainly will be opposed to individual amendments, but it is probably not only normal to have such discussions. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent body, has addressed all these amendments and it is important to stress that several amendments have also been supported, at least by the Committee. It is important, at least, from the point of view of the DeSUS Group, to point out that none of the amendments supported alone would be supported without our support, without our vote. We supported them because we felt that they were justified and because we felt that there was a need to change. Today the government has just said that it rejects all 77 proposals. I hope that, on the way to argument, the government will also change its position. It may also be good to mention that this is why DeSUS did not insist on any of its narrow interests and amendments, and that he also tried to include his proposals for amendments and make them difficult to visa-a-vis other amendments, so we did not really take them to the forefront. Some amendments have been supported, but some have not. Let me tell you why we didn't support some of the amendments. It has already been said today that some reject this argument, but it is probably not disputed that, at the expense of the amendments of individual parties, it is not possible to break the whole budget or break one of the ministries. This is how the proposed amendments were made by the Ministry of Defence, which, if all amendments were to be adopted, would have been worth a few billion more than was calculated. Approximately 20 billion redeployments are foreseen by these amendments and around 16 billion cuts in funds, with a slight reduction in those funds already made. It is interesting that these proposals were made mainly by those who were the biggest advocates at the time when Slovenia entered into international military ties, which were also considered successful, and who knew at the time that such entry also had some consistency, even some obligations and those obligations should then be fulfilled. Even now, with the planned budget rebalancing, this ministry does not achieve what is contractually bound. Of course, if these additional funds were to be taken away from him, it would be far more distant from what is our commitment and our contractual obligation. Therefore, some of the proposals, even if they were good on the substantive side, some of you wanted to help, some of the items we could not agree on because the source was not acceptable to us. Some we did not support the will of this because these amendments were too localistic, too narrow in some narrow interest, and some because they were even manipulative and they represented false truth. They were trying to get some wrong information. Unfortunately, such ones cannot be supported even if they were to benefit from the congregation that some Members come from. Why such proposals were transmitted, in particular those who "collect" the Ministry of Defence from those who promoted the most entry into the NATO connection, we do not know, but perhaps even intentionally, perhaps not just by chance and unconsciously, that it is necessary to take some place and be the easiest taken here. If I return to the amendments, let me say that DeSUS will also support some amendments in the National Assembly. We have already supported some, and some have also been successful, in particular those with more resources for regional development, those with complementary resources to local communities, those with more funds for roads, and some others we have dedicated favours that have not been supported. For example, those who provided more funds to the Union of Fighters, some of the other organisations proposed by the LDS, and when they were to be supported, were not present in such a majority that they could be voted on at all. Even though the government does not support these 77 amendments, it is selectively our view that some amendments have also been supported with the aim of correcting some of the mistakes made in the previous planning, which is what happens in any planning. We're probably gonna miss it in some way, too. We would also like more, in particular in the area of social protection, in the field of environmental protection, in the field of the protection of the elderly, in the field of employment and elsewhere, but we know that the budget must finally be harmonised. What is now on the table is the harmonisation that has been possible at government level. As much as we can fix this, we will see when we vote on individual proposals. I hope, however, that this is our conclusion and hope that the National Assembly will not undermine all the amendments supported by the Committee on Finance and the Ministry. But it's possible, and it's also pretty likely.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Bojan Starman will present his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the 2005 proposal for a rebalancing mainly because we believe that the proposal for a rebalancing is better than the current 2005 budget. This budget was adopted in December 2003 and there has certainly been significant and significant deviations in the specific areas that, of course, need to be harmonised if, according to individual ministries, budgetary consumers, programmes are to be developed as planned and set up. We've seen a whole series of budget lines. Of course, we had the opportunity, even when we received and found out the figures for 2004 and 2005 that there was a substantial lack of money on some items and implementation would be disabled in this way and within the framework of the 2005 budget adopted. That's why I think these are the correct adjustments. We are aware that this proposal for a rebalancing could not be followed by major new changes. We believe that it is probably a good basis for drawing up the 2006 and 2007 budget. Together, we are aware that our general public consumption is too high, that certain systemic measures will have to be put in place to reduce public spending. If I just illustrate the situation with a few numbers, let's say, 2005. We know that this year GDP is projected at 6,571 billion tolars. We know that today we are discussing the budget at $1,774 billion on the revenue side of the budget, with some adjustments, 1,683 billion in revenue and there is a negative difference of 92 billion tolars. Let us remember that last year this difference has been realized at 85 billion tolars and that in the last five years much more money has been spent than actual revenues in this period. As a result, certain items such as public debt are increasing very rapidly. The last known information we have is that this is 1.596 billion tolars. If I turn back and look back in December 2004, this number was 1,013 billion tolars. If we look at the state guarantees, they've gone up to 560 billion tolars somewhere. Four years ago, there were about 270 billion tolars. Here, too, we see a huge increase. We must therefore be aware of the fact that public spending will need to be reduced. With the 1,674 billion we want to spend this year, we will have to include 892 billion planned consumption of STIZ and 422 billion planned consumption of medical bills, and a third cash register, namely, municipalities, about 330 billion tolars. When we sum it up and consolidate it, it's 45.6% of our total national income, and that's absolutely, absolutely too much. If I am trying to analyse the revenue side of our budget, we must be aware that we are substantially over-inclusive in the area of direct labour taxation. If we take all of the items, almost 60% of all public spending, we create all the revenue for public spending by taxes on wages or those that create in the combined work. Here's the income, here's social security contributions, here's the payroll tax. If we add all of this together, we see that, if, for example, in last year's year, 2.683 billion were almost 60% raised for this purpose of total public consumption. I therefore believe that more resources will have to be provided from other sources and in another way. On the expenditure side, our spending structure may not be complementary and comparable to those of the European countries with which we look forward and want to follow. That is why I think that we should decide for a long time where we want with our country, what we want to support, how much social we will be, how much we will try to influence our economy's competitiveness will increase and we will create more and create conditions for it. We're not doing a good job around here. We see that there are no foreign investors, we see that companies are closing down and it is time to realize that something is seriously wrong and that we cannot afford it in the years to come, that we are practically owning and spending our substance that we should spend on development. Nevertheless, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this budget, this rebalancing is urgently needed and a much better starting point, an indispensable starting point, despite the many things we would like to see changed here. However, we believe that the timing of this rebalancing, if there were no elections, would probably be more appropriate to discuss this last year, last May. Here we have practically half of the budget year ahead of us, and we hope to end it in this way, based on the implementation of these plans that have been written here, but not, as we have been following for several years, that some of the items that are by laws that support such that it is necessary to pay them, regardless of how the revenue in the state budget is moving. I think that conscious planning on such items has been smaller and has in fact always occurred at the end of the financial year to realignment from the investment work to wages. Just the data, in 1994, we planned about 93 billion tolars in investment and investment transfers. The realisation in both of these cash registers was about 68 billion tolars per individual. Thus, we had written somewhere and boasted about the development budget, which pointed to 185, 190 billion of the funds that we are earmarking, but ultimately we succeeded because at the end of the investment, those who are falling out were able to realize 135, 136 billion tolars. I'd touch another item that was allowed. I hope that it will come true this year, but it will have to be well organised and a lot of efforts made. We are planning 115 billion tolls of revenue from European funds, at 70 billion tolls of expenditure. This is a matter that is fundamentally, fundamentally different from what happened last year, when we know that we were able to generate 43 billion revenue at 40 billion expenditure. We have been significantly lagging behind here because of some, such as cohesion and structural funds, we have virtually not been able to absorb a single tolar. I hope so much that this part of the programme will be able to realise that we will be able to deliver and implement the programmes as planned and, therefore, with all I have said, we will support this proposal for the rebalancing and hope that, in the next two years' debate, we will be able to determine some significant structural shifts on the expenditure side and on the revenue side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Starman. The position of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Dr. Matej Lahovnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office. First of all, allow me to express my sincere regret that there is no President of the Slovenian Government here today. Today we are talking about how we are going to distribute 1774 billion tolars. There is no Prime Minister here, there are not all ministers here, there are quite a few secretaries of state, but not all ministers. This, of course, shows in a way also in relation to this national assembly. on the fact that you believe that it is sufficient to agree at a coalition meeting on how you will distribute money, and that later discussion is irrelevant in any way, regardless of the professional arguments both professionally and in the opposition's comments. Allow me, of course, to warn you that we have all taken our stand before the last state-level elections to cut public spending. We said our goal was a cheaper state. Public expenditure in this budget is 1774 billion. 45.6% of gross domestic product is total public consumption, taking into account total public consumption. We have the dearest country, at least since independence, the dearest country. Compared to last year's budget, public expenditure increases by 127 billion tolars, 63 thousand 500 tolars per citizen and citizen in the Republic of Slovenia. I wonder who's gonna pay. Of course it's clear, Slovenian taxpayers. The government is also saying that it will collect more taxes by 65 billion dollars this year, and we are facing only 2.6% of economic growth in the first quarter, which is 40% lower than last year's economic growth. Of course we could discuss why. Of course, it is quite clear that with this staff "tsunami", which takes place in the administrations and supervisory councils of Slovenian companies, it is clear that the economy is more concerned with how to protect itself from this personnel "tsunami", political "tsunami", than with the business strategies of Slovenian companies. At the same time, we have 2.6% economic growth, and the Minister of Finance still believes he will collect 65 billion dollars of higher taxes. I wonder how. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we were committed to abolishing the tax on the payment list, which heavily burdens the work in Slovenia. This proposal was slightly rejected. What is left of those promises to relieve the economy, to relieve the work? More and more from day to day, they become farce. If we were first able to find that public spending in Slovenia has increased significantly, that we have the most expensive country since independence, then in the second phase we asked ourselves what the structure of the budget is. Where's that money going? Where do these 1,774 billion Slovenian tolars go? Of course, we can immediately see that the developmental part of the budget is substantially falling. The means to promote entrepreneurship and increase the competitiveness of the economy are being significantly reduced in all key development programmes of the budget. Both in the field of the economy and in the field of science and technological development, funds for investment and development incentives for the economy are declining. In total amounts and percentages, this decrease is, of course, covered by an increase in the expected inflows from EU structural funds, which should actually be an increase in investment in technological development, in the development of the economy, rather than replacing the budget's own development resources and spilling them for other purposes. These are the facts. If we wanted to materialise in concrete terms, we would see that the technological investment promotion programme, which was foreseen in the current budget to the extent of almost 5 billion tolars, has been completely abolished. A total of EUR 7 and a half billion is earmarked for the technological development promotion programme, with 2 billion expected inflows from the European Structural Funds. Again, the technological investment programme of 2.1 billion tolar is completely abolished. What is left of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, where we wrote that we will strive to improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, for faster technological development, for a higher standard of living in this country? How will you achieve it if not by promoting the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy? How will you achieve higher wages, higher pension growth if not in this way. How? In the current budget, almost 7 billion tons of funds were earmarked to promote investment and technological development. Now let's look at the proposal for a rebalancing. On the one hand, an increase in the sales of state assets is envisaged and, on the other hand, it is entirely different from co-financing investments in the economy. Interesting. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have proposed many amendments that have tried to improve the structure of the budget. We have thus tried to transfer 1.6 billion tons of resources within the Ministry of Defence's budget from the means to improve the military system and national security to the means to promote science and technological development. We believe that when we entered NATO, Slovenia's national security improved. This was also the reason why the defence costs of this country are likely to be substantially reduced. From this point of view, these funds could be restructured, committed to science and technological development. Even in the United States, important technological developments are also built on investments that they invest in defence purposes, which they then use in the economy, in health care and elsewhere. You have smoothly rejected this amendment. When we proposed to increase the funds at the Ministry of Economy by 3.47 billion tolars that we would spend on increasing competitiveness, investment in new technologies and new products, thereby increasing the innovative capacity of the Slovenian economy, which in our view is the only way to raise the standard of living for this country and, on the other hand, to take that money, these billions at the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, you have also slightly rejected it. Of course, we see that these funds at the Ministry of Defence are also used to make the distinguished Minister more comfortable and faster with his own aircraft from Hanovra, where he visits the firefighters' trade fair, to the airport exhibition in Paris, and to travel a little through Slovenia with military helicopters. Interesting. We have also proposed that items be increased at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs simply because we have found that 926 million tolars are being reduced to increase employment. This reduces the funding for the employment of unemployed persons of as much as 570 million tolars. That, ladies and gentlemen, is 10% of all the resources we spend for this purpose. At the same time, we are facing the lowest economic growth, relatively, in recent years, in relation to the economies of the European Union, which is 40% lower than it was last year. And you continue to reduce these funds. At the same time, we are faced with the fact that less funds are allocated to the construction of motorways and other roads in the Republic of Slovenia. I ask you how this will affect security on Slovenian roads, I wonder how this will affect the greater mobility of the population in order to make it easier for them to come from point A to point B, what this means for the development of the economy. These are questions that we have not received an answer to on the competent parental working body. What's more, you've limited the debate. In the middle of the meeting of the Monetary Policy and Public Finance Committee itself, you simply limited the debate: a three-minute debate, a one-minute replica. That's the easiest thing to do. The objective is to devote resources and the means is as simple as possible, a quick way to bring this balance of the budget through Parliament. If possible, it is best that there is not even a Prime Minister here, as undetectable as possible. If we look again, more specifically, thank you very much for calming down, gentlemen, coalition Members. [[...]] They say when you step on a cat's tail, a distraction, and your reactions confirm it. Thank you very much. On the other hand, it is noted that investments in public health establishments are falling significantly by more than 2 billion tolars. It is asked when a paediatric clinic will be built in Ljubljana. If it was absolutely clear that there had been a lot of land-ownership complications in recent years and the previous government supported the creation of a fund where funds had been raised for this purpose, they would, of course, expect that these funds would be designed to accelerate the construction of a paediatric clinic, but not to infuse funds to others after one stop, but not to simply reduce these health resources. We will all meet a doctor sooner or later, and I am sure that you will feel that way on your own. I'm sorry it's a pediatric clinic, because there are consequences, and I'm going to say that your behavior is even more sad. On the other hand, all the amendments we have tabled to increase these funds in order to improve the structure have also been slightly rejected. You have even told us that we are deliberately delaying the debate. If we look at the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, we see that there is also no increase in funds as has not been foreseen recently and when we have foreseen in the strategy for the development of Slovenia, as foreseen in the Lisbon Strategy. This budget balance has nothing to do with either the Lisbon Strategy or the development strategy of Slovenia. When we proposed to increase funds again at the Ministry of Science, Higher Education and Technology for development purposes to increase by one billion tolar for higher education, of which an investment in postgraduate education of 511 million tolars, you also slightly rejected this. As if we were not aware of the fact that we are moving to the so-called Bologna Declaration in Slovenia, to a system of three plus two, where most students will attend postgraduate studies. It's like you don't care. If we look at the structure of the funds, we see that 93% of the funds in the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology are earmarked for science, only seven for technological development. Of course, we support that 35 billion are earmarked for the development of Slovenian science, this is important, but three billion tolars for technological development. If you think that is enough - we wonder what your goals are, as regards economic growth, as regards the growth of added value in Slovenia, this is definitely not enough. If we look even more closely at some of the items in the budget, we see that, for example, there is a significant reduction in the funds for breeding, the funds for scholarships. This is indeed in line with the coalition goal of increasing fertility in this country. Really. You've shown here how much you care about these goals. Funding for livestock is simply decreasing. It is clear, however, that these funds are intended to facilitate the lives of families, foster families, and the inclusion of foster children in society. That's perfectly clear. You're also lowering your scholarship funds. Nothing to me, nothing to you. If we look at the funds allocated to the coordination of activities and assistance provided by Slovenia and used to help countries in the field of South-Eastern Europe in the integration of the European Union, we can also see that they are falling. We have therefore simply proposed an amendment to devote at least 100 million more to this so-called 'Card Programme' of assistance for the integration of the countries of South-Eastern Europe into the European Union. You refused to do that, too. These funds are not only some of the altruism Slovenia has, but also, of course, our national interests in South-Eastern Europe. Our national objective is to bring these countries into a united Europe as soon as possible. Our economy exports significantly to these markets. And also through this programme, in which Slovenian experts participate, we also ensure through this programme that the standards of business they implement in their legislation are as similar as possible to Slovenian standards. In this way, too, we ensure the fastest and most effective penetration of Slovenian companies into our so-called historical markets. And you simply turned it down. Of course, it was easier to limit the debate than to listen to these arguments, as if we were some competent flies, where you just swing your hand and fly away. Taking a closer look at this budget again, what is certainly most surprising in some way is the proportion of the resources that fall down on the anti-corruption committee. The Slovenian government has reduced the funds of 21 million tolars to the anti-corruption commission. If the former, conditionally said, opposition leader, Mr Janez Janša, thundered in this national council against corruption and clientism, now, as Prime Minister, is simply reducing the funds of this commission. Why, I wonder. Why? What is the ultimate purpose? What is the problem if this anti-corruption commission works well? Why does she want to shut down her financial tentacles? Why does she want to take the fuel to work well? That too will have to be asked slowly. If I conclude slowly, it is clear from what has already been said that we do not support the proposed balance in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. When we entered the European Union, we said we were entering the Champions League. To enter there to raise the standard of living in Slovenia. In the strategy for the development of Slovenia, we wrote that we want to achieve and overcome the development of the European Union by 2013; this is what we wrote down. Of course, at the time we said it was important that you put a lot of goals in the championship league. The current economic situation, last year's economic growth has allowed the new government to score at least one goal. So she sent the ball high across the door, somewhere in the clouds. And there's this budget rebalancing in the clouds. That is also the case because it is not based on realistic assumptions. Nobel laureate Milton Friedman once wrote: "In the economy, no lunch is free, every lunch is paid." Unfortunately, this is also the balance that someone will have to pay for it. 127 billion tolars more than last year's spending will be an account to be paid to Slovenian taxpayers. Everyone, from a newborn to a pensioner, will pay 63,500 tolls for this coalition ministe, which you call a budget rebalancing. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we rightly assess that the balance of the budget, which we will consider here, is the budget of lost development opportunities and is bad for Slovenia. That's why, of course, we won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Mr Minister, even though the statements made by Mr Lahovnik concerning you were of such a nature as to justify the replica, I regret that I cannot give you a word under the rules of procedure. Mr Franz Horvat will speak on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister of Finance, and also today in the role of Prime Minister in view of the position and above all the act under consideration by the distinguished ministers, state secretaries, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and everyone else present! The proposal for the 2005 budget rebalancing as the first budget act of the new government, and one of the first major acts of this government in the field of economy, does not promise anything particularly good. Nothing helps the satisfaction of the ministerial assembly, which accompanied the departure of the proposal for a rebalancing from Gregorčičeva to Šubičeva, on the contrary, this may raise even more concern. The old saying that good goods are only praised, in this case not applicable, will count the results and, of course, the satisfaction of citizens and citizens in the first place. Given that the praises have already been expressed in the introduction of the Minister and also in the presentations of opinions or positions of the parliamentary groups in particular, my comments or views on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members will be more critical. I already have 13 or 14 budgets and a balance. Let me comfort those who are angry with the number of amendments that the number of 76 amendments to the balance is relatively small. In recent years, many amendments have been tabled by the opposition, which is now in position. This is no big deal, it is legitimate and legal and the right of Members and Members. The revised budget by its scale, which exceeds the projected growth of gross domestic product, does not take into account the existing and under this government the new strategy for the economic development of Slovenia, does not take into account the latest economic developments, in particular slowed economic growth at the beginning of the year, is almost halved in relation to last year's growth, does not take into account the objectives and orientation of the Lisbon strategy endorsed by this government and also by this national assembly, and this, with a large majority or almost unanimous, does not take into account the adverse outcome of the negotiations in the next financial perspective, let us hope that this will not happen and that, however, there will be a compromise tomorrow or on Saturday morning, which will be good for Slovenia, and finally does not take into account the priority of this government's programme. The exception is the fulfillment of some promises that will not contribute much to development. It is increasingly evident that the increase in revenue is estimated to be very optimistic or too optimistic and there is a significant risk in this. However, if the expected revenue growth is achieved, it would be appropriate to start reducing the tax on wages and thus contribute to the competitiveness of the economy. On the expenditure side, there is even more than an increase in the overall volume of the budget worrying the redistribution of the budget by purpose. The rebalance gives priority to consumption, if it is right or wrong, but it neglects some of the objectives that are a condition for greater competitiveness, which has already been declining for some time already worrying, and I am not saying that the fault of this government, for faster economic growth, which is too slow to catch up with or on average in the EU, especially in more developed countries, to provide new, better jobs, for more coherent regional and, in general, for better sustainable development. In order to substantiate these findings, only certain elements of the rebalancing that are not development-oriented should be indicated. It is unreasonable and incomprehensible to reduce funds for technological development from the planned 7.1 billion dollars to 5.5 billion if this item is added up in both ministries. This means reducing these expenditure below 1% of GDP. The Government's Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in its latest development report rightly notes that one of the biggest challenges in developing competitiveness and under-added value is precisely under-emphasis on technological development and slow restructuring. This is what the government is doing at a time when the EU is obviously lowering funds for this purpose, which means that we can expect less from the Brussels treasury. For other purposes, the promotion of the development of entrepreneurship, restructuring, with the exception of tourism, is also more cost-effective. A significant amount of funding for these purposes is provided for by EU funds, where experience has shown that there is a risk of underutilisation. It is also incomprehensible and unacceptable to reduce resources for an active employment policy, in particular to create new jobs and to increase employment and thus to increase labour market flexibility. Such behaviour by the government is particularly unacceptable in view of the expected loss of jobs in restructuring, in particular in some labour-intensive and non-competitive industries or enterprises, still high unemployment rates in some less developed areas where unemployment is twice as high as in the developed regions and ranges from 14% to 17%, even higher in some of the larger areas, the high proportion of older unemployed people, as Slovenia is far behind the EU average in this particular category of population, according to a report by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis. Let me mention that in the EU, twenty-five people employed 40.4% older than 45.55 years of age, while in Slovenia this percentage is 23.5%, while the Lisbon target by 2010 is 55% of the employment of this category of population. Many young people who successfully complete their studies and do not get a job are a major problem. More and more recently, mainly from less developed areas are going abroad. In reducing funds for technological development and for active employment policy, the government is acting quite contrary to the priorities of the Lisbon strategy: competitiveness, growth, employment. This is again so much less understandable at a time when the European Union is reducing funds for the Lisbon strategy, and it is counting on greater investment and greater efforts by Member States. The government is not implementing one of its own main priorities with a rebalancing approach, which is a more coherent regional development, as it is reducing, for example, resources for direct regional incentives, and I hope that the amendment to this item will be adopted to implement the regional development programme and rural development funds. If we add to this the European Union's forecast for rural development, it is not expected to reduce the differences in development, on the contrary. The reduction of road infrastructure funds and some other investments will certainly not contribute to more coherent development and faster economic growth. There is insufficient support in the balance for export promotion, in particular export and tourism promotion. It is undeniable that exports are an engine of economic growth. This is particularly true at the time of the recession in our most important markets, for which forecasts for the future are less and less favourable. It is therefore essential to penetrate the new markets of the country with significantly faster economic growth. This requires greater funds for market and promotion activities, better organisation and activity of the representative network and better cooperation of the government or ministries with the chambers, while greater support for a very successful Slovenian export company and others. Obviously, some in the government find it more important to bring down the assembly system than to help increase its effectiveness, especially in support of the economy in the entry into foreign markets. Obviously, the government has no understanding of international development cooperation, as it reduces already the sore assets that are less than 1% of gross domestic product, while the European Union insists that these funds increase to 0.3% or more, while the international organisation and individual countries propose 0.7%. This is not only a humanitarian and politically motivated aid, as is often the case in government circles, but largely to open new markets, promote and increase exports and investments. This is becoming increasingly a means of strengthening economic and political positions, particularly in developing countries. For these purposes, it is also possible to obtain substantial resources from European Union resources, from individual countries, for example Canada, which is one of the countries that gives most for these purposes, from international financial institutions and so on. In addition to the resources available, the organisation and efficiency of government and ministry work will be very important for the successful implementation and thus the conclusion, the revised budget and development in the coming period. Unfortunately, we must find that, despite the Prime Minister's repeated forecasts, at least once, there are no special changes that can be seen for the better, nor for the better use of the European Union's resources, nor for the management of development activities at all, including the Lisbon Strategy. With insufficient resources for development purposes - these are also objectively limited - this is even more important. The government should adopt the Slovenian Economic Development Strategy, the State Development Programme, as soon as possible, the Lisbon Strategy Action Plan and, finally, at the highest possible level in the government, at the level of the Minister or even the Vice-President of the Government, ensure effective coordination of development activities, including more effective and coordinated action within the European Union. Finally, it is high time for regional and thus European organisation of the country. Let me wrap it up a little bit more optimistic. Before we sat in the big salon at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, there was a storm above Ljubljana, there were dark clouds, there was lightning and thunder, and somehow there was a parable, as if they were sending a message or warning from above, watch what you are doing with this rebalancing. Now the state of time has calmed down, I hope that it will also soon become clear, and that I can share optimism with the Minister, that the budget he has forecast for next year or for the next two years will be better and even more developmental, I want much success for the Minister and the Government and, of course, for all of us. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. We have thus concluded with the presentations of the parliamentary groups. I am adjourning the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will continue tomorrow, which will be held on June 17th at 3:30 a.m. or half an hour after the end of the regular meeting, which will begin at 10 a.m. with the consideration of the law on the registration of the same-sex partner community. Thank you very much.
