ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Polonca Dobrajc, Dr. Slavko Gaber for the beginning of the session, Ljubo Germič, Feri Horvat, Jožef Jerovšek, Dimitrij Kovacic, Dara Lavtišar Bebler, Rudolf Može for the beginning of the session, Breda Pecan, Majda Širca, Davorin Terčon and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving to 37. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the promotion of coherent regional development, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Please, Mr. Žagar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and honourable Members! If we look at the area of regionalism in Slovenia, we can see that Slovenia has made full progress over the past period, but this is worrying, but that developmental differences between regions have even increased. This is totally contrary to the principles of coherent regional development. Among the measures that will help reverse the negative trend and accelerate coherent regional development, thus effectively enabling the population of Prekmurje, Posačja, Bela Krajina and many other areas in Slovenia to have at least approximately comparable living conditions, is also the adoption of a bill to promote the harmonious development ahead of you. Let me introductoryly erase the contents of this law. The proposal for a law on the promotion of coherent regional development defines coherent regional development as a common responsibility of the State and the municipality. The main functional notes for the implementation of regional policy are the development regions, which, in the interim period, replace this role of landscapes until they are established, which I have no doubt, of course, if there is political will here, in the national assembly. Otherwise, it is a term that replaces the current statistical region. The current regional development agencies are being upgraded with more coherent regional structures that can take more effective care of development in the regions. In the area of development regions, municipalities will form associations of municipalities under the Local Self-Government Act. The political decision-making body will be the Council of the Region composed of representatives of the municipalities. The Council of the region will adopt a regional development programme, its annual implementation programmes and establish regional organisation. In addition to the Council of the region, the legislative proposal provides for a regional development council in which the development partnership between the public sector, the economy and the non-governmental sector is to be implemented. The legislative proposal recognises the fact that there are significant development differences within the development regions as well, and allows the Regional Development Partnership Institute or the Area Development Programme to express the developmental specificities of such closed geographical areas. The bill provides for the integration of the development regions into the so-called cohesion regions, which is necessary for the effective integration of Slovenia into cohesion policy in the EU. The number of cohesion regions, as well as the development regions, is determined by the Government. Competence for a coherent regional development policy at national level is given by law to the government service for local self-government and regional policy. The service will be strengthened by workers from the Regional Development Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be integrated after the adoption of the law into the Local Self-Government and Regional Policy Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This will lead to a state-level rationalisation and an increased efficiency of the state administration. The draft law retains the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development as a public financial fund. In addition to current tasks, it will also carry out tasks related to the development of project financing or public private partnership in Slovenia. The latter is headed for a comprehensive chapter in the bill. It is about providing the missing legal basis for attracting the private sector into public sector projects so far. A comprehensive description of the law procedure is needed because the proposed procedure replaces the procedure under the law on public procurement and the law on the implementation of the budget. These contents cannot be regulated by sub-laws. The draft law defines basic programming documents such as the Regional Development Strategy of Slovenia, the State Development Programme and regional and regional development programmes. All these documents are operational in nature and aim to prepare and coordinate a set of key development programmes and projects of the Slovenian regions. The aim is to strengthen the local development initiative and increase the absorption capacity of Slovenia and especially the areas most lagging in development. Part of the means to carry out tasks at regional level, which are in the public interest, provides the State budget as a regional incentive. The remainder shall be provided by municipalities and others, to the regional development council of associated partners. The draft law sets out the scope of regional incentives to reach 1.5% of gross domestic product in the next programming period. Regional incentives are clearly defined in the draft law as the funds allocated by the State budget to co-finance regional projects under the regional development programmes implementation plans. It is therefore projects that they also accept in the regions as their development opportunity. The draft law sets out the so-called specific regional policy measures implemented in priority areas most lagging behind in development or facing major structural problems. They are also intended to develop regional development instruments and schemes, as well as to finance the preparation of projects and the establishment of a decentralised development function of the country. The scope of specific regional policy measures in the national budget should not be less than 0.25% of gross domestic product. Thank you for your attention and also thank you for your support for the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Paul Rupar, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. In September, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development discussed a government proposal for a law promoting coherent regional development. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative Legal Service of the National Assembly and the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the local self-government and regional policy, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Committee of the National Economics Council, as an interested working body, the opinion of the municipalities and municipalities of the coastal self-government communities of the Italian nationality and the associations of the municipalities of Slovenia and the opinion of the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia. In the second reading of the draft law, the Committee based itself on the fact that the proposal for a law arose in time after the failure of negotiations on the financial perspective 2007-2013, under the Luxembourg Presidency and with a view to providing as soon as possible a legal basis for the establishment of cohesion regions and the integration of Slovenia into EU cohesion policy. In the second-reading discussion, the Committee focused on Articles 6 and 7 of the draft law in conjunction with Articles 77, namely the definition and determination of development and cohesion regions in line with the EU regulation establishing a common classification of statistical territorial units. In particular, the issue of ensuring the necessary flexibility in the provisions of the law relating to the transfer of powers to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was raised so that, on the basis of the results of the negotiations on the number of cohesion regions, which may be directly linked to the outcome of the negotiations on the future financial perspective, their number would be determined later by the regulation. Various opinions were expressed in the debate. Some discussers initially highlighted past errors and stressed that the regionalisation of Slovenia in the previous mandate would facilitate negotiations on cohesion and development regions. Some expressed concern and uncertainty about the functioning of the development of Slovenia towards decentralisation and stressed the great responsibility taken by the government by determining the number of cohesion regions by the regulation. In the course of the debate, however, the majority opinion was supported that it would be irresponsible if we continued to make mistakes from the past. It was stressed that it was necessary to focus on the negotiations and to enable the government not to be limited in the negotiations in advance in order to complete them as successfully as possible. In this regard, an agreement was also made between the Presidents of Parliament's parties prior to the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly, which, as you know, was successful. This means, of course, that the possibility is opened that Slovenia will not be limited to just one cohesion region, but divided into two, perhaps even three cohesion regions. The debate highlighted, both by the Government and the Committee, that it is not possible to carry out regional development without decentralisation of the country or that it is not possible to ensure the decentralisation of the country without the establishment of landscapes and the systematic transfer of powers and tasks from the country to lower levels, including financial resources. In this respect, it is necessary to approach the establishment of the provinces as soon as possible on the basis of the prior agreement reached by the Group of Members on the necessary constitutional changes. Some members of the Committee felt that instead of the envisaged 12 development regions, 13 or 14 regions could later become provinces. On the basis of the discussion on the articles of the draft law, the Committee identified a number of amendments to the amendments tabled and adopted, on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, a number of amendments complementing the draft law in terms of greater clarity of the text, visibility of the objectives and principles of the proposed law, the hierarchy of acts on the basis of which the regional development policy is implemented and the relations or hierarchy of regional policy holders, in particular the relationship between the individual authorities and their competences. The Committee has also followed the legislative and legal service's requirements for a more precise definition of individual terms and has also paid particular attention to the completion of the procedure for the implementation of the financing project and the solutions provided for in the transitional provisions. From a constitutional legislative point of view, however, the rule of law still raises the issue of the authority which is supposed to take responsibility for regional development. In its view, this body is not clearly defined in the draft law, nor is it able to regulate its position and competence in the transitional provisions. In order to address these concerns or the views of the legislative and legal service, appropriate amendments have been tabled to the draft law, so I propose to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! In the Slovenian People's Party, we certainly support the proposal for a law on coherent regional development and welcome the great efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional development with Minister Ivan Žagar in charge to finally implement the necessary regionalisation of the country. We are aware that it is not possible to decentralise the country without the establishment of landscapes and the systematic transfer of powers and tasks from countries to lower levels and to provide the necessary financial resources for their operation. Unfortunately, so far it has been insufficient political will to support the country-building project, the minimum funds that Slovenia has drawn from the Structural Funds have not contributed to reducing the developmental differences in the Slovenian regions, and these differences have increased. With the adoption of the law on coherent regional development, we are already very late. The law provides a legal basis for the establishment of cohesion regions and the integration of Slovenia into the cohesion policy of the European Union, and constitutes a transitional arrangement for the formation of landscapes, which is linked, we know, to the amendment of the Constitution. Let us remember that a few months ago we have already considered this proposal for a law. In view of the many lost opportunities in the past, Slovenia's proposal in the two cohesion regions, which is said to be less developed east and more developed west, was very unfavourable, especially for some regions within the developed region, which would particularly affect the Gorenjska region and the Gori region. In 2003, the adopted Regulation of the European Union, which defines the number of inhabitants of the cohesion region, allowed only this possibility, and all others are exceptions which were possible until the entry into force of this Regulation. In the time crisis in which the law arose, we also tried to accept this in Gorenjska, gold because the government's service in law prepared additional solutions in the form of additional assistance to less developed regions within the developed cohesion region. However, we were relieved when the presidents of the parliamentary parties agreed to define the cohesion regions at NUTS level 2 and the NUTS level 3 statistical regional level, but their number was not determined. This is to be determined by a later government regulation, which will be able to decide their number more quickly in line with the course of the negotiations and will also examine the negotiating points on the European Affairs Committee. The proposed law allows flexibility of the government and the national council on the number of regions in view of the uncertainty of the implementation and outcome of the negotiations on the financial perspective 2007 to 2013. We will expect the government and also demand it to provide an optimal solution for Slovenia in terms of obtaining as much European development money as possible. The first and main purpose of the law is to speed up the coherent and ensure the equitable regional development of Slovenia. Therefore, it is really necessary to adopt the law as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Slovenian National Party. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers and representatives of the government! The proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development, I will definitely try to speak, it has great meaning for this country, and that is good. Its content is even more important because it has so much meaning. Today we are talking about two levels, which in Slovenian are called the "statistical classification of territorial units". The level two, where we are talking about our presence in Europe and the level three, where we are talking about the formation of the landscapes and thus the restructuring of the state administration in the Slovenian field. Let us try to speak humanly once if someone listens to us or reads that he understands us. It's a coordinated development. Harmonised development means that Europe allows 25 Member States to comply with at least 75% of the European Union's gross social product. That's what Europe wants. None of the 25 Member States should be below this level. Those who are, Europe will help them, those who are above 75, will help those who are below. We all know that. Slovenia is now there or there. Why do I say there or there? Because I speak again, regardless of the current or previous government, because we do not yet have any concrete financial indicators. We don't have any. We don't know where we are. We assume that we are more than 75%, we assume, given that the poorer countries have joined. But we still don't know the exact data. And whether, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is dignified and competent for this country of the Republic of Slovenia to play the American Roulette and bet on one, the other or the third. It's not. This country had the opportunity to decide three, five years ago on the division of regions in the Republic of Slovenia at the level of statistical classification of territorial units 2. Europe said, decide if you are one, you will be one. At the time, the percentage of GDP that Slovenia had was 72.75. And then all of us would be most honest with all of us, because the whole country would get European help. That didn't happen. Then the speculation went on. What do we do now? Two units. It means, Western Slovenia, Eastern Slovenia. But don't tell me we don't know that in western Slovenia there are municipalities and units that need consistent regional development and assistance, and also east. And now we're going to say, the west on one line won't get anything because of Ljubljana, I don't know, I'm talking, but the east will get everything. It's a good thing to get it because it's less developed, but it's also in the West. And then we speculated and played cards, one would be one region -- we're still defending one, the Slovenian National Party -- the other would be two, the third would be three. And because we couldn't get along - but we couldn't because we didn't have any data - it was first a proposal that, of course, was favored by a group of people earlier and now, I don't know, it's a shame to talk about it, in two regions. And now there are ideas for three, which would be a little more fair than two regions. But last but not least, it turned out that, due to the failure and non-use of European funds, the State Assembly was handing over the right of the government to determine by regulation the number of regions at the level of the statistical classification of territorial units. [[I use the Slovenian term, that means NUTS]] That they'll decide for themselves. Based on what? Just like that, from the air? Do we have that kind of information? Do we have any financial indicators? We don't! And in connection with the division into statistical classifications [[End warning sign]] territorial units 2 is also division at level 3, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u9	Mr. Barovich!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u10	That's the country. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u11	Time's running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u12	That's the country. I'm done, and I'll pick it up later. In short, this is only to be considered when reading this law - whether the government or the legislative branch of power provides.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The DeSUS position will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Long, multi-annual, numerous and urban debates have probably shown many weaknesses. They also pointed to a number of solutions, arguments for and arguments against. And in the DeSUS Group, we feel that there has been sufficient time and sufficient argument for a substantial consideration of what to support. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal before us, and we feel that we should now make an effort to implement it as soon as possible. We also support some amendments, not all of them, but most of them. We will vote for those we have signed, i.e. for the coalition amendments. We also believe that the amendment to Article 12 which speaks of all development partners is acceptable. However, we do not agree that we should give our support to the amendment that speaks of 14 development regions, and not to the one that speaks of all development regions being required by law in this House. In short, we are confident that the government will also be able to adapt to the situation when it decides and, of course, take all the responsibility for the decision it will make. At the same time, it will be the responsibility of at least that part of the National Assembly, which coalitionly supports it. We support because the law, as proposed, is probably sufficiently thought out so that we can hope that consistent regional policy will begin to develop. We also support it because this intended development is sufficiently institutionally supported and we support it, of course, because I [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] measuring decentralisation and measures to strengthen regions or municipalities. [[...]] At the same time, of course, we are also thinking about other laws that we have already adopted and will be, and they need to be integrated into a whole towards decentralisation and strengthening the primary level. All of this we hope that in the coming years it will also contribute to the real power to say that we are on the path we have set for ourselves, that is, on the path to catching up with the more developed regions around us or within our country. Of course, it is quite clear that all parts, all partial interests, including justified needs, will not be able to be realized immediately, so much more readily, because it is our job to think about the whole, that is, what the country as a whole can gain and what has greater weight over some partial interest. However, justified partial interests, as provided for in the law, are also possible with others, let's say, corrective measures are still being implemented. In all of this, the fact that we do not have landscapes shows a clear weakness, we can commend the fact that we are trying to do something in this area, but we must be concerned when the demands for even more fragmentation of Slovenia with many small ones are flourishing, and I would almost say to the incompetent municipalities. What makes us particularly happy about this marriage is, in fact, the only novelty. The only novelty is the specific way of project financing, which has not been and we consider that this measure is the right way, such as the right way to set up project companies. We would like to point out that, although it has already been written in some other form in individual documents or in laws, the State is not prepared to implement it. So far, we have had a series of properties, such and different, which lie as dead capital and which should be linked in these project companies and put in the sense of promoting development. So if we conclude, we will decide to support the law, and we will also support all those amendments, except the amendment that speaks of the fourteen development regions and that all these regions must be defined by law here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u16	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleague, respected colleagues. The aim of the Slovenian Regional Development Strategy or this bill is to increase the effectiveness of regional policy and to reduce regional development differences. Reducing the development backlog of Slovenia and the Slovenian regions on the average of the European Union will be a long-term process that can only be accelerated by strengthening regional innovation systems that will increase the exploitation of the potentials of the development regions and increase the competitiveness of the economy in the region. The adoption of the bill is necessary because the reform of regional policy has reached a point where it is necessary to consolidate and upgrade regional development institutions at national and, in particular, at regional and local level, with a view to clearly demarcating the tasks and roles of individual development partners. Coherent regional development is defined as the shared responsibility of the State and the self-government local communities. As the main functional unit for the implementation of regional policy, the development region is defined. The draft law defines the basic programming documents, the regional development strategy of Slovenia, the state development programme and regional and regional development programmes. Complementing legislation will make it necessary to adjust the content of the regional development programmes. In the future, there is also a need for more activities, particularly in relation to the preparation of comprehensive projects in smaller functionally-interested areas within the regions and in connection with the development of natural protection areas, national, landscape and regional parks, which limit the developmental autonomy of the regions on nearly a third of the country's territory. It is necessary to strengthen the role of municipalities in regional development and establish appropriate relations between regional institutions. The Regional Development Agency cannot be a decision-making place for major projects. It can only be a place of integration and preparation of projects. It is necessary to establish a political body at the level of the region composed of representatives of the municipalities. The current programming committees need to be upgraded to bring their interests together and to implement the partnership principle. So far, regional policy has failed to sufficiently attract economies in the preparation and implementation of regional development programmes. There are systemic obstacles to the realization of a public private partnership that need to be addressed. The project will be surrounded by the establishment of landscapes, which will also give Slovenians more degree territorial structures than usual in all neighbouring countries. The current government coalition is the successor of this direction and has set the goal of achieving a decisive shift already in this mandate. This objective can only be achieved by a comprehensive economic policy of the country, which will incorporate the regional criterion as a criterion and a guide. This will be possible if the supply of quality projects from regions lagging behind in development increases accordingly. The novelty of the bill is also support for the further development of regionalism in Slovenia. While the bill does not address the issue of administrative and political decentralisation, which is expected to be brought by the provinces, it establishes and strengthens regional mechanisms to promote development, which will also be needed by future provinces. We want to establish and regulate a regional level of consensus on development priorities. The coalition will build the reorganisation of Slovenia primarily in the area of regional development planning with a view to strengthening decentralisation of the country and upgrading local self-government. We will also apply the development interests of Slovenia in negotiations with the European Union for development funds from the following financial perspective 2007-2013. The major pan-European projects to be carried out through Slovenia and projects to implement the Lisbon Strategy will be supported by incentives for small businesses, especially for families, incentives for rural development, incentives for the development of natural and cultural heritage and other sustainable development projects that strengthen Slovenian national identity and competitiveness. We will also focus on the preparation of the 2007-2013 national development programme on the same objective, ensuring that the various development interests and all development partners are adequately and equally represented in the preparation of this document. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal for a law on coherent regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is "Cveta Zalokar Orazem", LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to you all. At the LDS Club, we are very pleased that the debate on the division of Slovenia into cohesion regions has been postponed in autumn, giving the government time for further reflection on the division of Slovenia and the preparation of appropriate calculations on the most appropriate solution. That is why we will also support a solution with which the law does not bring about a definitive number of cohesion regions, and this is left to the government, which can, in contrast, adapt to situations based on the interests of the State, and we believe that a final solution must be confirmed by Parliament. Although negotiations on the three cohesion regions will be more difficult than negotiations on two, we believe that it is the duty of the government to negotiate and try to hire the best solution for Slovenia. The government's responsibility is very great, and it may be a failure, but in LDS we will support the government in its efforts to achieve the best. Of course, we would also like to point out that at the LDS Club, we are disappointed by the government's activities which have been carried out so far at European Community level in relation to the problem of territorial distribution of Slovenia, which is of paramount importance, since it has a direct impact on the level of resources from the Structural Funds of the future. In our opinion, government representatives, particularly Prime Minister Janez Janša, as well as external Minister Rupel, have at least so far not been active enough to advocate for clarification of our situation and for finding allies for the benefit of Slovenia in the rest of the European Union. At the LDS, however, we strongly oppose the solution whereby the development regions of territorial units at NUTS level 3 are set up in accordance with the EU Statistical Units Regulation and are to be decided by the Government. Regionalisation of Slovenia at NUTS level 3 means, in fact, an extension for future regions, as we cannot possibly understand that the development region would not also be covered by future administrative and administrative regions. There is no region without development powers or it is only a virtual region. We remind the proposer that the regionalisation of Slovenia at the level of the development regions has not been the subject of an agreement between the representatives of the parliamentary parties at the consultation, so the government has exceeded and violated the agreement, which is a poor way forward for further regionalisation arrangements, and it is clear that it will be necessary to achieve 2/3 support in Parliament in order to establish the regions in order to change the Constitution, while also taking into account the opinions of local levels. With regard to the development regions, our assessment of the negotiations in the European Community is that it is even easier to achieve and use an exception, since the regulation allows it in Article 3 because of the specific situation and the possibility of allowing the specificities of smaller units is also recommended by the European Parliament in its report. We have therefore tabled an amendment to the LDS in order to introduce 14 development regions by amending the law, as proposed by the previous government. As such a solution has already been reached with the highest degree of consensus and because we believe that there is an absolute need to take into account the reality of the design, and this shows the inability to cooperate in certain environments and regions, including the wishes and expectations of individual local communities. We also draw attention to increasingly unacceptable practice in the parliamentary club when the government does not consult on the positions of the Republic of Slovenia on EU matters together with the National Assembly, which, for example, happened at the meeting of the European Union's agricultural ministers on 20 September, when the Minister took a position that was not confirmed on the side of the National Assembly, despite the requests of Members sent 14 days before that Council of Ministers. In short, we will only support the law in the event that, in particular with regard to the development regions, it will allow Parliament to decide and participate in these procedures, because at this point it seems to us that, given that full decision-making is left to the government at the level of cohesion regions and development regions, in some way the role of Parliament is degraded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development has already been submitted to the National Assembly in the past year but has not been adopted due to pre-election tensions. According to the major criticism received by the current government coalition, this year it forwarded its amended law following an urgent procedure. It later turned out that this urgent procedure was not exactly based on urgency due to the time of adoption, but mainly because of the procedure and the opposition was prevented in order to require a thorough examination of the law in the National Assembly. The debate itself referred in particular to the decision on the number of so-called cohesion and development regions. In the parliamentary group, we are still convinced that it would be more appropriate to negotiate three cohesion regions for the further harmonious development of Slovenia, but we do not object to recording their number in this law and thus not reducing our negotiating points. It is our position to negotiate so many cohesion regions to ensure the best sources for drawing on so-called European funds. However, the story is for the development regions, which are also numbered in this law. In the parties forming the current composition of the National Assembly, it seems that the knowledge of the necessity of reforming local self-government and the introduction of provinces has matured. These regions must certainly contain a development component and must become development regions. Here, however, we run into the inconsistence of the current government policy: on the one hand 12 development regions and on the other hand 14 provinces. And because of this lack of agreement, you have decided to delete the proposed solution and have written that the development region, the territorial unit of NUTS 3, is in accordance with the Regulation of the European Union establishing a common classification of statistical territorial units, which translates into 12 and up to 13 development regions. And since the cases are deliberately blurred, it would be right for the number of developing regions to be recorded in the law under consideration today. The decision to define the development regions by a government regulation is also at least controversial if not constitutionally questionable. The essence of this proposed law is to promote more coherent regional development. However, a thorough development is certainly not sufficient on the basis of any change in the institutionality of regulation. That's what the experience has shown us so far. The essence of more coherent regional development is certainly in the amount and purpose of the funds. It is an incentive for local communities to connect to the extent based on the common denominator, this is the faster development of an area. Of course, this is not to be overlooked by the fact that these areas, rounded together, need institutions that will be able to prepare quality programmes that are the basis for obtaining development funds. And if we add the necessity of directly elected decision-making bodies, we conclude the circle in a point called the province, in terms of the development regions. This is also provided for in Article 71, which states that, following the implementation of the law on the provinces, they shall assume the function of the development regions of this province. The law provides or provides for the possibility of establishing a union of municipalities in charge of the development function at the level of the entire development region. And if there is no agreement to establish a link, the world of the region can be directly established. The regional development council shall also establish a liaison; if there is no liaison, the municipalities shall directly establish a regional development council. This raises the question, What if the majority of the congregations want a relationship and if they establish it, what about non - related congregations? And if it's not a relationship and it's just the world of the region, what is it with municipalities where mayors don't participate in the world of the region. We are confident that these issues can only be properly and concretely resolved by establishing developmental areas where municipalities will recognize their further development. And speaking of responsibility for regional development, it is right to find that local communities are certainly responsible for regional development. However, a coherent regional development is primarily the responsibility of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič, New Slovenia has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u22	Well greeted, Mr Vice President, distinguished Minister with fellow workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today we are considering a very important law whose implementation will be crucial to achieving more equitable development of individual areas in Slovenia. It is not only the 6th and 7th articles that define the framework of development and cohesion regions, but it is very important that the content that speaks of key objectives, such as reducing the differences in economic development in regions and within individual regions, preventing the emergence of new areas with major development problems, increasing competitiveness, employment, improving human capital in Slovenian regions and so on. According to the Office for Macroeconomic Research and Development, macroeconomic indicators for 2004 show a rather favourable picture. However, they express themselves very differently in Slovenian regions. The central Slovenian region has created as much as one third of the gross value added in the country and one third of Gorenjska, Podravska and Savinjska region and the remaining third of the other eight regions. In the wider area of Ljubljana, 45.5% of all companies operated and gave work to one third of employees in companies. The differences in unemployment are certainly the greatest problems of regional development. The worst situation for youth unemployment is that it has a higher unemployment rate than the average of five regions in the European Union: Zasavska, Pomurska, Podravska, Savinjska and Koroška. This information makes it clear that the coherent regional development law, which was adopted in 99 and supplemented in 2003, was only a paper document and its implementation was an annual blur because the budgetary resources did not follow the legal provisions. This is certainly one of the main reasons why the differences between the developed and the underdeveloped have increased in recent years, in addition to the major problems faced by economic operators in the undeveloped areas. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party, we consider the proposed law to be a good basis for achieving the objectives set out in the Coalition Treaty, which stated that special attention will have to be paid to the undeveloped areas of the Republic of Slovenia. The scope of regional incentives, including EU development funds, will gradually increase and must reach 1.5% of GDP in the 2007-2013 programming period. Specific regional policy measures to be implemented in the priority areas most lagging behind in development must also achieve a level of 0.25% of GDP in this programming period. While the proposed law on the promotion of coherent regional development, which envisaged the division of Slovenia to two cohesion regions, was divided by the political public in June, this time the proposal for the number of cohesion regions to be determined by the government by a regulation is certainly a better solution. With this legal solution, the government has sufficient room for manoeuvre to adopt, under predictable or unpredictable conditions, negotiations on the financial perspective 2007-2013, those decisions that will make Slovenia the most fresh European money. In the New Slovenia Group, we trust the government that it will be able to defend national interests and negotiate for Slovenia, as has already been said, the most favourable solutions. We are also of the opinion that Slovenia, when creating territorial units at NUTS level 3, also has a realistically better starting point than at NUTS level 2, and could possibly negotiate an exception to the EU regulation establishing a common classification of territorial statistical units. The news brought by the law is support for the further development of regionalisation in Slovenia. The existing form of partnership between local communities and regional development agencies has been inconsistent and has led to many conflict situations. The new law proposes holy regions, as political decision-making bodies, as well as regional development councils, as partner bodies, as well as clearly positions development promotion bodies at regional level and their interrelationships. The law also defines how project funding will be implemented, which will provide a new impetus for the faster development of the regions. In New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to be considered on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We have seven amendments tabled in the sixth section of the law. However, two amendments have been tabled to Article 6 as the first article. I am putting to the debate Article 6, the amendment to Article 6. Who wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Articles 6 and 7 are, whether you want or don't want, nice or ugly, very interconnected. To Article 6, at least in the review of the amendments tabled of 3.10., I have, and I ask you, Mr Vice-President, two amendments. I don't know what you named or defined that we have six amendments. I don't know what the other colleagues think. To Article 6, the Vice-President said that we have seven amendments or six, but we only have two. It could have been a lapsus.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u25	Can I fix it right now? Seven amendments were tabled under the six articles of the Act. As a first, we consider Article 6, for which two amendments have been tabled. That's what I said, and we didn't get along.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you. I only asked because I didn't know if I was missing a document. In short, the first amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia defines or wants the creation of 14 statistical regions that are supposed to apply until the establishment of the provinces. In the second amendment, we have a proposal from the Government that the government, by regulation, will decide how many provinces the State of Slovenia will have. I would like to point out that in the Slovenian National Party we estimate that Articles 6 and 7 are interconnected, perhaps the Minister and his services already know. There is nothing wrong with having in Slovenia, we have already talked, 8, 10, 12, 14, even more imaginary provinces or statistical regions were desirable. But with this respectable and respected colleague and colleague, let's think about it. If we do not know where Slovenia, as one, two or three regions in the great country of the European Union, where we wanted the Slovenians, is, and whether Slovenia will receive development assistance from Europe in order to achieve Europe's wish that we are all at least 75% of gross social product, we cannot discuss internal regulation until then. Connecting. Another time. If we are looking at the fact that the government will succeed and define two regions in the statistical classification of territorial units at European level, I am very interested in what this division, which is proposed, will look like. So I propose, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that, to Article 6, I do not know, the Slovenian National Party will oppose or support either one or the other, because we assess that it is necessary to resolve Article 7 first, unfortunately we have not had time to submit to Article 6 our amendment, which is tabled under Article 7, but we certainly wish in the Slovenian National Party that the regulation of the provinces, I am talking about the statistical region, this moment and later not by the government, but by the legislative branch of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that our request at the President's College has been heard to address such an important topic as our regional development and the promotion of the regions in the autumn. That's good. And it is also good that we have quite some time today to discuss the law or amendments. I would like to say here that any so-called NUTS will not benefit if Slovenia is divided against people's will and against what individual municipalities want. In fact, it is too often a matter of European political- bureaucrat thinking and we ask too few times whether this will really be a concrete region, a specific congregation, a local community, a village, a place that we all want, and that is very simple: a better life. I'll support both amendments myself. But I would say something here about Primorski, because not least I live there, I am not born, but of course I have been a tame Primor for years. As we see from the first amendment, Primorsko was divided into three development regions: Goriška, Coastal-Kraška and the Notranj-Kraška Development Region. On this occasion, I would like to say that I have intimate faith in the entire Primorsko, that I have intimate faith in the North-South connection, for the following reasons. First, a single Primorska would significantly facilitate the achievement of a single, one coastal university; so obviously we will have two, talking about the coastal university number two. Secondly, until today we do not have a traffic link along the Primorska, north-south [[That's what we talked about at the Maritime Members' Club yesterday.]] . If Primorska were single, it would be much easier to influence the government, Europe, as well as other "decision makers", as is now said to be popular in the ugly Slovenian language to allow us such a link. The same is true for the second track, similar to the port of Koper, for tourism, for cooperation with Slovenians and Slovenians in substitution, not least for closer integration with Furlania-Julia Krajina, but not in the light of the fact that, for example, the Minister of Transport cannot talk to Mr Illy, because it is not at the same level of state, but only for pragmatic reasons - perhaps the Minister of Transport or any other minister of ours may be better able to deal with someone who is principal in the province who knows the problem, as well as with a colleague from Rome. Therefore, it seems very, very important to me that the government does not throw a rifle into the corn in the negotiations and in the effort to establish three cohesion regions, not two. [[something has been said before summer vacation]] . In fact, the calculations so far show that if the third region was cancelled Slovenia would lose as much as 100 billion Slovenian tolars. How can we say this to citizens and citizens living, for example, in Western Slovenia living in Primorska? They say that while European statistical conditions require regions with at least 800,000 inhabitants, we too often forget that between 250 regions in Europe there are 56 exceptions and of these 56 exceptions there are 26 regions with fewer than 400,000 inhabitants. So completely strong enough argument that Slovenia is also fighting and that it is trying to get the most out of a prestigious club of five. If Slovenia were to be divided into three cohesion regions, the situation would be something like this: the central Ljubljana region could draw funds in particular for, for example, the development of transport corridors, and we should not forget that Slovenia has an extremely privileged position at the intersection of the fifth and tenth corridors - the Western and Eastern region for cohesion projects that would bring both parts of Slovenia closer to more developed or developed European regions. Of course, I should be allowed to tell you the following. Good negotiations are, of course, negotiations that do not stem from the position of negotiating parties, so in a way that everyone claims their own, that is black, that is white, and they do not come anywhere, but out of interest. This is also evident, of course, in the regions and at the next point of today's daily reggae, relations with Croatia, could also be listed. Therefore, of course, it is very important that we do not fear the big brother from Brussels or anyone else. We are a single country, an equal member of the European Union. And if we're not proud of ourselves, if we don't get rid of ourselves, I can say the Cankarian slave complex and the inhabitants of some valley in Shenthflorian, then believe that no one from Strasbourg, Brussels or Luxembourg will help us. But even negotiations, if they're still so capable, are obviously not enough. If we already domain with the European Union and if we already choose money to lie on the European road, of course we need to bow down and collect that money. With great disappointment today, I read in one of the Slovenian newspapers the following address: The government has not spent European money. I quote: the first meal of European assistance in the construction of a second track of EUR 5.5 million has been waiting for nine months and the government has not been able to spend another cent at that time. If we do not even bow down, when of course we have to work, it will mean that we are inclined to walk only when we obey the directives of the great brothers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mrs. Flower Orazem Zalokar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I must express my satisfaction with the amendment prepared by the coalition for Article 6. This is an important substantive difference that we have repeatedly pointed out on the Committee, namely the regions, the development regions at Nuts level 3, that is, the development regions. To our joy, it will in fact be written in the law that they are only formed in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Regulation, not by a regulation that we have always warned about, because the regulation says that such a region should have 150 000 inhabitants or that Slovenia could have 13 development regions at this time. However, it is necessary to say in this respect that, as we have already presented in the opinion of the Club of Members, there is still much more possibility for the government to reach more than 13 regions, and given that, in fact, there is a wish that we have detected in Slovenia after the establishment of 14 regions and for so many regions, our Club of Members has actually tabled an amendment, because there would be no harm if we had already written those 14 regions in the law, so there are plenty of options in many documents that we need to take advantage of in the negotiations. Of course, if there is a desire to negotiate at all or if this activity, as we have already said critically, has become significantly greater, not only at the level of the activity of the minister covering this area and which, in my opinion, works properly and well, but will require the role of the whole government. I think that this story will also have to be dealt with by Prime Minister Janez Janša and also by the Foreign Minister, who at the moment, due to the presidency of Ousse, sees problems everywhere else, but is not there where we would need it as a country. And, of course, in these stories, we'd need him. It is necessary to lobby, as allow me to read, the regulation clearly states in Article 3 that it allows individual non-administrative units to deviate from these thresholds due to specific geographical, socio-economic, historical, cultural or environmental conditions. I am convinced that in this Article 3 of the Regulation we have sufficient opportunities to do this to ourselves. And go ahead. In its report on territorial classification or territorial membership at NUTS, the European Parliament pointed out that the territorial classification should take into account the specificities of smaller administrative units or relativised conditions in terms of the number of inhabitants. At NUTS level 3, there are no obstacles to achieving a different solution with greater activity in Slovenia, but I would like to reiterate my resentment, nowhere and never agreed that development regions at NUTS level 3 will also be determined by a government regulation or that this important issue can be decided exclusively by the government. This speech was not given at the Presidents' meeting and the government has extended the peaceful agreement on cohesion regions to the development regions, and they are constantly perceiving that this is not the case, despite the warnings they have already received, I think that we have been communicating this agreement from our Member Club for more than a month. This is a game of agreement, and it is a bad road map for the future when it comes to the provinces, a coalition colleague, to be discussed. Despite your vast majority of the provinces in Slovenia without an agreement, because this requires an agreement that has a two-thirds majority, there will be no agreement. Of course, the solution you may be preparing in the background, which is the solution to have 12 development regions, perhaps 14 administrative administrative regions or even more, is absolutely not good at my price. We are moving on inconsistently because, according to my assessment, there is no region in any region that does not have a development component in its competence. This is a region that can only be the transmission of certain national omises or counters, but it will not be a region that can make the right decision about itself. Of course, such a compromise proposal, which, given how complicated this story is, at this point I see it this way, but I would like to see if there is any other information that we may get today, that we may have an easier opportunity, because at this point the support of our Member Club will weigh whether we support the law or not. Of course, I must say here that we are interested in this and such solutions do not appear to me to be an extremely under-appreciative relationship if we leave the government to the development regions, for which there is no need, again or on its own to decide on this with a regulation, while we go around, depending on how important this is for the environment, and also on the basis of the coalition colleagues, how you promised and in the previous mandate, in some way disrupted the solutions concerning the provinces right at the point of not taking into account the opinion of the population or individual local levels. Of course, here you go a step further, perhaps in the previous version you would have made a decision at least in Parliament, you have avoided it, so that it will only be decided on by the government. However, since the agreement will be concluded quickly, the question is how such an agreement in the form of a government regulation will in fact have this agreement at local level. I think it's going to be a long way from that. Once again, I stress that, of course, the mandate for cohesion regions is actually given to the government. We believe that this is a good move, that the government has time and, of course, the possibility of reacting quickly to individual situations, and this is how it behaves in the negotiations. If this is the kind of negotiations that we can follow at this time, then we can say that it will be nothing, because I have not seen any activity from the top representatives to this day. It can happen in secret, but it is probably not necessary for such things to be given adequate information, that someone, however, I have also proposed this at a meeting of the committee, says some meetings in which the countries of the European Union, where the lobbying, who has spoken with whom is not. It is not detectable of any activity nor of the foreign ministry nor of the Prime Minister in order to enter this story with full efficiency, and I must say that without this success there is no expectation for cohesion regions, and then it will certainly be necessary for Parliament to tell what has been done. We understand that negotiations may not be successful, but by no means, as we have already said in July, we will not agree to give up negotiations further or to say that this may be too difficult for us. This is not true and these options exist and need to be taken full advantage of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In this story about the provinces and regions of the so-called development regions, I have been participating from the very beginning. The laws already related to the establishment of the provinces have gone in this direction, which is now somehow lacking in this law on promoting more coherent regional development. In the previous term, we have put the members of the coalition parties into the procedure of the Savinja-Shale Region Act, and probably everyone knows its fate as any similar law that has not been dealt with. However, they were not dealt with because we were in the process of changing the constitution at the same time. Even though in the then government coalition we had the number of votes that was sufficient and even exceeded the number needed to change the constitution and introduce a dual-level local self-government, that is, the provinces, we did not do so. This term of office will, of course, be even more difficult. In view of the statements made by the government representatives at a time when this new government, which we now have, has been formed, we have also made quite a few words about the provinces, the regions and the fact that somehow spontaneously statistical development regions should eventually grow into the provinces, and that we have also introduced a law on the Savini-Shale province, which the coalition MPs or you have considered to be good, as a law that could be acceptable, but was a little too quick and warned, in this case even justified that this area should be regulated systematically, comprehensively and by a single act of dividing Slovenia into provinces, as you actually imagine. This was an argument that I myself, as an opposition Member, agreed to at that time. Although there is little new in the field of constitutional change. A proposal for amendments was tabled. Now we will define ourselves, but given the experience I have, I have a legitimate fear that this process will last for a while. It is only the connection between the landscapes and the development regions that you have defined in this law, when you first identified the development regions, that their content and transitional provisions also state that when the provinces are established by law, these provinces will take over the tasks of the development regions. With this solution, which we have today in the law, this means that we will have 12 statistical regions in the next period until we adopt an arrangement that will establish the province. This may take quite some time. At the same time, we are witnessing messages from the government, which somehow conveys its opinion where it visits, that 14 provinces are the right solution and that we need to think in this direction and also propose solutions to which we will eventually get 14 provinces. This is somehow not harmonised or better said, at this point certainly not harmonised. Perhaps this matter could ever be reconciled in the future. I hope that we will also find this majority in Parliament. This has certainly not been easy for 14 development regions. Also in the previous mandate, 12 development regions were proposed first, followed by coordination, and somehow within the coalition there was a realization that the number 14 was the right number. The statistical regions, which thus far constitute the starting point for the implementation of regional policy, are therefore 12. In these 12 statistical regions, regional development agencies have been set up, with the task of preparing a regional development programme. In practice, however, there have been difficulties in adopting regional development programmes. The municipalities in some statistical regions have not cooperated or found a common point on which the development of the region should be based. The biggest problems were in the territory of the Podravska and Savinja statistical region. It is no wonder, therefore, that an amendment has been tabled that would somehow define 14 development regions. Let me say that I have tabled this amendment in a second reading and we have also considered its application in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats on an amended law, but we have found that the application is the same as in the second reading, including by the LDS, and that there is no point in submitting amendments with the same text. Therefore, on my behalf, I say that the amendment tabled by the LDS, which is the same content as my amendment in the proposal for a second reading, which has become irrelevant due to the non-voting of the LDS amendment, in order to support this amendment. I am convinced of this by many signals from the area from which I come, i.e. from Upper Savinja and Shaleska Valley, where the decision on the development region has matured over time. The municipalities of the Savinja-Šala region are closely related. Let me say just a few reasons: bringing municipalities together to carry out the tasks of local self-government is important, and this is actually being done in our area for some time now, both at the level of the municipal authorities and in the establishment of joint economic companies such as Savinja-Šalejska Regional Development Agency, d.o.o., TRC Golte, d.o.o. and similar; preparation of a regional development programme and spatial acts; integration in the implementation of economic public services, including waste management. The existence of knowledge and human resources for the development of the development region is of the utmost importance, and here we have the assurance that these personnel are sufficient in our space. The establishment of an administrative district at the time of the reorganisation of administrative units is also referred to here as 14 administrative districts, and this administrative district is also somehow concluded territorially, as would the 14th and 13th development regions, that is the Savinja-Shale region. Great common interests and opportunities in the development of tourism; economic integration of this area, common natural resources and vital interests in the supply of municipal goods to the population, daily migration between the municipalities of Šaleška and Zgornje Savinja Valley; joint regional institutions allowing the use of services from residents within the proposed SAŠA region. It is possible to ensure the flow of general information for the needs of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia - this is a very important message because we know that statistics are also being monitored in statistical regions. And due to the similarity of regions and landscapes, good cross-border cooperation has been established with the neighbouring state of Austria. Therefore, the differences between the regions continue to grow despite all our efforts. On the one hand, the power is produced by centres, developed areas, on the other hand less developed. This is certainly not in the spirit of coherent regional development and the objectives of promoting this development, as set out in the proposal for a new law. By creating 14 development regions, we are not harming any area, which is also an important message. Let us also enable the development of the Savinij-Shale region. The very creation of the political province of SAŠA without the development component is, of course, a complete nonsense. Any establishment of landscapes simply to divide the country into administrative territorial units, without having these development components taken into account or in the first place in its operation, is of course an unnecessary cost to the State. If the development region is the same development landscape, of course, it is the purpose of establishing landscapes or development regions. I am still convinced that a decision can be taken and that the government is able to implement the requirements for fourteen development regions. Once again, I note that development or regional development cannot be ordered and will not be ordered by law adopted by the National Assembly. Developing interests must also identify local environments in the context of integration, and they must know that the development region is a development region, that the development component province is primarily dedicated to development. I am convinced that with the common strong we can still achieve the most effective territorial and substantive distribution of Slovenia to the provinces to become so-called development landscapes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In particular, I would like to highlight that I am convinced that I am, at least personally, not even my colleagues and colleagues, in great difficulty in making the decisions that are on the agenda today. On the one hand, I feel that the government, or the government's solicitation, and partly us, are not capable and ready, depending on our own knowledge, differences in views, and in particular the activities that we have conducted in the European Union so far, to make a decision that would constitute a step forward in some clear direction, and that we are therefore looking for the basis for how we should decide nothing or less. And on the other hand, we probably all find that what is behind this fact is not good for us, because the regionalisation of Slovenia is linked mainly to the development objectives and the integration of people into development projects, the landscape as a political territorial unit, certainly, what Kontič has now said about development, because otherwise they do not have their true sense of design or not identical in the territories of administrative districts, probably because it is certainly more rational. We talk about all of this for a long time, we cannot make a decision, not just because we have differences, or whether it should be twelve or fourteen, but also because it is easy for everyone or a lot of people to fear that a clearly oriented path might also mean a decision that someone does not like. And, however, I accept the conclusion that certainly regions cannot be commanded that certainly common interests cannot be commanded, because they must grow from an environment and the interests of the economy and the local communities to realize them, so I am convinced that if we want to set up regions, and especially if we want to set up landscapes, we will have to do so without having the goal of transferring parts of functions, developmental and others from countries to these regions or regions. If that is what we want, then we should probably do the territory of Slovenia at the same time, throughout the whole area, not say we take once in the east, once in the south, once in the west one piece that is mature and the others are waiting maybe a year or two or until an unknown moment. When I say this, I must say that in my own way I am dissatisfied that we will be, without blaming the government, especially not just the current government, which in one year could not have arranged everything, without wanting to remind us of everything we know about the procedures of the four years around constitutional changes, the provinces, and who wanted or didn't want to. However, I cannot and agree with all those who have already said this today to accept the facts, because we cannot decide whether or not to let the government decide. I don't think this is a simple constitutional and political solution, and it's not a good solution. This solution is possible as regards the negotiations on cohesion regions, this moment in the European Union. I'll take it. It is possible, since here the only possible flexibility that is necessary for the government to respond to these facts is that it will respond in a way that will truly ensure that Slovenia divides into cohesion regions that will ensure the greatest possible use of the funds available in the European Union for this purpose. This, however, shows faith, because it would be difficult for any government, after all, to continue to be able to negotiate with the State to provide as little as possible, but not as much benefit as possible, and I do not want to come out of this assumption, but it is still possible in this part. But with regard to these development regions, I must say that this freedom is not good and I think we should stick it in the National Assembly. That is why I will personally support the amendment, which is proposed and which speaks of fourteen regions, because even in the previous term in the parliamentary group, when there was a speech on the provinces, we agreed that this is the closest possible solution - I will not say that it is ideal - because it is always not ideal, because it is always someone who says that it is not appropriate, but it is the closest possible arrangement with which at least most could be satisfied. I do not see any valid reasons why, in the fact that we have to give the cohesion regions greater freedom to the government, we have also decided to leave it in this area. I think it'd be good to be stuck here. I expect, however, that work on the design of administrative districts will be intensified, especially in order to step up the work on the design of the provinces. I hope that the situation will not be the same as it was in the previous term, because it will require such difficult conditions where it will be difficult to ensure that you will be able to reach territorialisation through the provinces for Slovenia as a whole at the same time. I think it is also right to think that if we are now drafting a law that will ensure the promotion of coherent regional development, that we have been imagining things so much that we will not change it again over the years, because about five, six years ago we created a new one, set up decision-making mechanisms, then we were skeptical that only decision-making mechanisms, if there are no content and resources, do not provide enough. I would like it not to be the same this time and that we will also find decision-making mechanisms that will provide content, because if we do not do so, we will only have additional resources and costs for some bodies that will sit together and there will be no concrete results. I will support the proposed amendment, and I believe that, at least as far as the development regions are concerned, there is no reason for us to leave its decision to the government now, how much and what it will be, but this must be the decision of the national assembly, because if this is just statistics, then it is no matter if there is content in it, and then, in my opinion, it cannot be decided by the government itself, but I must be the national assembly that defines these regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Zhagar, have you asked for your word?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I would try to clarify some things with regard to the debate that has been held so far. First of all, as far as I'm concerned, there's been a breach of agreements. Of course, it doesn't hold. It is true that the agreement reached consensus on the cohesion regions to be entrusted to the government, that there was no agreement on these development regions, and that agreement was reached that parliamentary parties would meet again in the process of establishing the provinces and try to reach an agreement on this. It was an agreement, and we stuck to it, and we never interpreted anything else. I stand firm for this, but of course it is the fact that, at this point in time, the debate is already being initiated in the National Assembly in connection with constitutional changes. When we talk about constitutional changes, it is reasonable to discuss the whole package of legislation in this area. Only that kind of package makes sense if we're talking about establishing the provinces. The debate, which has been held so far, has mainly been about the establishment of the provinces, but not about this law that we have before us. This law does not intend to establish provinces, and there are no numbers in this law at this time. With regard to consistency, I must say that we have proposed or have proposed consistent solutions all the time. In fact, both figures were in the original proposal of the law as regards the establishment of one and the other statistical regions, it is said, at NUTS level 2, and at NUTS level 2, the content of this law is. I think it was at a given time, given the situation, and this is changing very quickly, including a credible solution. Well, later, when it was shown that there was no hurry in this regard, now there is a consistent solution in the sense that both proposals are removed from the law and that both chapters are somehow entrusted to the government. As far as cohesion regions are concerned. The solution is meaningful and is about the very content of the negotiations. As far as negotiations are concerned, a number of issues are open at this time, depending on when they will end, depending on what the financial arrangement will be on the table. And the establishment of cohesion regions alone is one of the negotiating venues in the entire range of negotiations and all the negotiating points have been confirmed at all times on the European Affairs Committee and will continue in the future. In this part too, the National Assembly will participate in these decisions. In the second part, when we talk about membership in the development landscapes, we must make it very clear that they are being replaced in some way by the statistical region at the moment, and that these statistical regions are a situation created by the government. It is not clear to me whether this decree has ever been presented in this national council. Of course I speak in the past tense. Probably never, and it's at this point in time for us to run aground. That's what the government did. It could have been in the past - but I do not want to go back to understanding ourselves, to the past and to warm up the controversy in this title, but a different solution could have been adopted long ago, and today we would also be in a significantly more favourable situation in terms of negotiations. But when we talk about why these solutions were not adopted, I have a feeling - and this feeling is happening to me today - that there was no political will to bring about the decentralisation of the country. And establishing the provinces is exactly what it is. As far as the current solutions are concerned. By or the fact that the debate on the establishment of landscapes is open, we find the proposals proposed in this law meaningful. If it is political will, then basic answers can be found as regards the establishment of the provinces, very, very quickly. And now I fear that you are not actually a political will, given the proposed amendment. That's what I'm afraid of. Because you're trying to get through this part of the law in some way. And if such an amendment is adopted, there is also an attempt to ensure that the congregations as affected do not cooperate and do not participate in this part of the debate and decision-making. This is not our purpose in the process of establishing the provinces. If I listened attentively to all the discussers, they all spoke of the need for the congregations to be involved. It is said that, in fact, the debaters in this case are at odds with themselves. As far as this law is concerned, I have repeatedly said that if the provinces were established at this time, then this law would not be needed, because one of the basic tasks and the one which is essential must be a development component. And also in this law we are proposing, of course, at the next stage, an immediate solution to future provinces, and I hope that they will be set up very quickly, which is possible, because you are all explaining that this should be the political will to take on this development function immediately under all other administrative functions. This one, of course, is essential. It is true, however, that, at this intermediate moment, and also for the needs of negotiations, as regards cohesion policy, on the other hand, we need a certain institution to carry out tasks in the field of coherent regional development at this point. That's why this marriage is on the table today. And this law, according to my assessment, of course, means quite a shift in the area of coherent regional development if it is the intention of the government to implement it. This government intends to implement it. This government has one of the main priorities of coherent regional development and, with its proposals, has already proven these things by its decisions. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I am very happy and pleased that this law on promoting coherent regional development will finally come to the National Assembly. We have been talking about him for almost 15 years. We had this and different, essentially things that didn't drink water and that didn't work in this sense in a coherent regional development, but that those who were rich were even richer, and those who were poor were even poorer. That's the model he was so far. I can prove this with many local regional cases at the level of the Posavia region, where I come from, but I hope that this law, which I believe will be prepared in a positive way, will nevertheless receive one step forward of incentives for those regions which are more developed, which have significantly larger and better economic and other resources and, of course, a significantly higher quality of life for people. This is extremely different in Slovenia. Today's debate also proves that in fact these differences are large and are currently growing in Slovenia. Maybe this law can alleviate this in part and partly bring those parts of Slovenia, the region and the local community a little closer to the more developed ones. This will certainly be a process, it will not be overnight, it will naturally take a longer period, but if we start tomorrow, then we believe once in a better result. We've been talking about these polycentric regions, like I said, for a long time. Many of us have already connected on local regional levels to some regions in the establishment that we are already as a region without any State powers, but the Posavije region operates as three municipalities in the establishment and will also work in the future, certainly as a province. I'm sure of that. And that the results we see at local level can be combined at this regional level in a positive direction. As far as the government's concerned, the decision on this or that. I think this responsibility that he accepts is extremely great. And there's a lot of expectations. Unfortunately, this must be admitted, we have been very unsuccessful in this area in the past. Drawing on European resources is a cancer wound in Slovenia. We're not much better today, either. I am sure that the negotiating group and the government will do their utmost to debunk all rumors, such as these and others, so that we will be more successful here. This is our great opportunity in Slovenia to draw as much as possible. We need good negotiators, good projects, good lobbyists and so on. I believe that these regions will be proposed by my colleague - in principle, I also support 14 regions, why not, in the final stage, this is a model, a black matter is not drinking water at the moment, because this is more than an exception, 14, 13 yes. However, I think that if local communities and regions want this to unite, they have common interests, the current policy must follow. We've been talking about this for decades intensely, and 12 and 8 and 16 and 22, I don't know, 24. I think that 14 regions, if I look through Parliament, are some kind of model that almost everyone would agree to. And it is probably clear to the government that they will take this seriously. And as I have information, this is also seriously thought about 14 regions in Slovenia. This would be the number of landscapes that would be developmental, encouraging, in the common interest of bringing these regions to life better, in the fact that the country, which we are going to adopt today, I believe, with a large majority in the National Assembly, will carry out in this spirit, as it is written, with these objectives, which are very important. Reducing differences, this is a fundamental message of this law, polycentric development, very important, and above all an increase in the competitiveness of the economy. We are talking a lot about this, and so far we have little to do with those regions that we are underdeveloped. In particular, the reduction in the unemployment rate and, last but not least, the quality of life of people in these regions, such as Posavje, Bela krajina, Prekmurje, could also be listed, which is significantly different from those in the Coast and the central Ljubljana region. Unfortunately, we have people working for 70, 80 grand! I believe no one in Ljubljana works for this money anymore. And that's what he's doing. Unfortunately, he's gone. The women, the labor force, are at home waiting for some charity from the state to get something through the office. That's terrible. There's a similar story in the White Land. There's been a lot of writing and talking about this lately. Life there is completely different than living in another country and not in the Republic of Slovenia. And you have to take this seriously. I believe that the government is aware that it will also give this message with concrete measures, that it will try, after all, measures such as tax reform, which is much to be talked about and much to expect. In this sense, tax regulation will probably have to be made in such a way that less developed areas, such as the White Landscape, Posavje, will be given to an instigator so that investors, entrepreneurs can carry out their entrepreneurial ideas there, not only in the central Ljubljana area, but perhaps something else on the Coast. I think it is important for the government and the national assembly to follow up on this, that the promises we all made together and we are still giving them will be made to the fullest extent possible in order to reduce these differences substantially. There will be no more differences like now that the price of a square meter apartment in Sevnica is 500 euros and in Ljubljana is six times! This is abnormal for 100 km of difference between Sevnica and Ljubljana. That's insane. The price of energy is the same in Sevnica as in Ljubljana. In fact, the cost of living is even higher in Sevnica than in Ljubljana, the abnormal world, the wrong world, I would call it. It is normal for a young potential educator to flee to central Slovenia. And with this bad region, bad local communities, simply because life here is much more quality. There are still some who persist in this region, and we will continue to believe that this law, as well as those objectives of the government that they want with tax reform and with some other measures and with the certainty of the early establishment of the provinces, will be ours, I believe that 14, and with clear powers, in particular with financial powers, to get what we missed those 15 years after the independence. That's why I think the amendment proposed by the coalition is perfectly fine. Of course, it imposes a great deal of responsibility on the government and we expect clear measures from it to decide properly, wisely and wisely. This is what we know: that it will be better and more successful in drawing on European resources, so that it will shape the provinces in Slovenia, which will drink water in the further development of this Slovenia in the future, so that those municipalities and those regions that are so on the tail of development today will slowly rise from wages, to development, unemployment and other things. Especially with the desire that we do not all flee to central Slovenia to live where we are: in the White landscape, Prekmurje, in Posavje. This is what I think we should all buy together and today's debate, as far as I've taken it, goes in this direction positively, that also some of the others that come from the richer environments, you understand that and I believe that you will continue to understand that. Of course, there is great responsibility in the government, and there is great expectation. They count the results of life and nothing else. So far, there have been many promises, such and different, past governments, and no results. And in the end, the richer were even richer, the poorer were even poorer, and I believe that this is not right for our Slovenia. Of course, the challenge is to draw on European resources, and there are high expectations, and I hope that negotiators, as I said before, will be, and everyone else will. It is time for some changes in this Slovenian space. It is time for those poorer, less developed ones to come with the encouragement of the country, and especially with some other reliefs a little closer to those who have already flown to the sky in the Slovenian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you, Vice President. I am speaking to myself just because I am trying to help in my own way to convince the government or the coalition MPs to appeal to our amendment, which wants this to be reformed into 14 developmental regions. I will also argue this from my point of view, but although I might in some way be egotistical because I come from Maribor, I would say I am not interested in Ptuj and I am not interested in Podravje. Maribor is strong enough and will be even stronger if it has this area attached, but it seems to me that as Members we must go through this egoism and be real about it. I myself have been in politics for so long, especially in the local one, that I can objectively tell you how the Maribor antagonism and Ptuj actually prevents all joint activities. So Mr Strumšnik is the history of this regional development, he is the best witness among all of us, how in fact you cannot force actors from one or the other to unite and therefore give political command to say, but now work in agreement within and for the law. You can't do that. And in this case, when we are talking about these 14 developmental regions, it is also indisputable to us who live and work in Maribor that it is necessary to give support to this lower Drava area. In particular, I think that those Members who come from this area, and what few of them are, are aware of and know what this means when regional development programmes are written, how painful and difficult it has been to harmonise the selection of regional agencies, let alone programmes later on. For this reason, I think that the practice, life in this past period, has shown that, in political arguments, of course, they are also life, professional, that is, purely those we are taking, or that we are getting through our work experience. IT'S harder for me to talk about, but as far as I know, when I was an economist, Velenje was, in fact, constantly running his economic policy, connecting, creating strong economic actors that are also transferring expectations to a political level. For this reason, I think there is no doubt that these 14 developmental landscapes should be supported, especially because I cannot imagine if we go into the formation of the landscapes later by means of a basic law or whatever, so that these areas do not include these development elements, which should be included in the development landscapes. In fact, we kill two birds in one moss by shaping the developmental landscapes by number 14. If you ask me personally, but this is probably impossible and unreal and pointless today, Slovenia would be the number 8 most applicable to Slovenia. This is my personal opinion, but probably this step back, and we're not politically able to do it, let alone individually. For this reason, I take this as a sure fact, I take this as a situation in which we are and I suggest that the government also accepts these arguments that have been made today and that it supports the amendment because it will avoid the danger that it will pose. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] When she has to make her own decisions on these 12 or 14 development regions, which I find completely pointless. [[..]] I think that's Parliament's job. I think this is a situation that Parliament needs to resolve. Parliament is the place where we talk, where we coordinate, where we confront and if you want to vote, but the decision is much more valid if Parliament does, not the government, although it promises to come after verification. Speaking of this level, I also point out in connection with cohesion regions that the government should not take a step to shape cohesion regions in its own taste. I think that in all these discussions we have found that the elements and the basis for making the so-called exception, although I call it an exception in this case has not yet been applied at all. I had previously seen the reaction of government representatives to Mr Pavliha's explanation when he spoke of those exceptions. I know what you were going to say when you were looking at the president, whether they were exceptions during that period. Yes, they have been, even today I am sure that exceptions will be possible because we are members of this European Union because we have a strong voice and because we have the influence to decide with our vote. Without our vote, some decisions cannot be taken and I think that, with appropriate persistence, aggressiveness, lobbying skills, the willingness of the government, its representatives, we have the opportunity to implement those exceptions that are not so radical that I do not think they will be adopted in the European Union. That is why we need to create a position, it is best that we already have administrative administrative units, that is, the provinces. If we do not have them, I think we have a firm obligation to accept them as soon as possible, as such matters are allowed to be accepted. I'd like to comment a little further on that statement the minister made now that he's given his word. It also smells to me that if the previous governments or parliaments did not have any desire for decentralisation, I too am concerned today or feel that this government has no real will after decentralisation. If I were entitled to this decentralisation, I would express this through all the procedures that we are talking about today. This decentralisation would start first in cohesion regions and it would normally be three Slovenian cohesion regions. It is abnormal that Koper is involved in a region with which he literally has nothing. And it is abnormal for Koper or Ljubljana to talk to Trieste, i.e. with this backdrop, about matters relating to that area, even at the cohesion level. I think it's Koper who should be given this authority to get the seat of the third cohesion region. As abnormal as it is, even though I would look at Maribor selfishly again as the seat of the third cohesion region right up to Notranjska or including Notranjski. It's totally lifeless. Nothing in this environment is happening; nothing will actually be able to be unified; the problem will be in this communication, and I think that these should be at least those arguments that speak in favour of the three regions. Not to mention that you also need a supportive environment for these three cohesion regions, but they are universities, and they are banking institutions. These are also bishops, who are now three, by which we are actually transferring all forms of this political decentralisation to all periods of decentralisation of all life in the Slovenian space. Therefore, this appeal when the government decides to take account of all these discussions, to go to only three cohesion regions and therefore to support fourteen development regions. This will prove that words about decentralisation are not just words, but acts. That is why I will personally, as well as the LDS Group, support the law if this amendment is accepted and if this amendment is included in the law, because I think Parliament has the right and the duty to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you, presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The debate so far shows the seriousness of this law. The Slovenian National Party, as it warned at the time of entry into the European Union, reiterates its warning to all colleagues and colleagues, the amendment proposal to Article 6, which covers fourteen regions, does not in fact change much, we have twelve today. I am talking about statistical regions, because many of us are involved in the conversation and we are talking about the provinces, but this is not the same. The amendment speaks until the landscapes are established as development regions. Good. If there are fourteen, today there are twelve, fourteen. But very specifically, if, and I think, the government, if it has this regulation, decides that Slovenia will be divided into two regions, we now say that in this proposal Gorenja Development, Gorenja Development, Coastal and karst Development, Notranjska karst Development, Central Slovene Development Region, these regions will be without European aid because they exceed 75% of the gross social product. Let us say this to these people today if we accept this proposal. Let's tell them that today. And if a proposal is later adopted for a regulation to govern cohesion. As far as the Slovenian national parties are concerned, once again, the statistical regions today exist. Let them remain as they are, and let the regionalisation of the State of the Republic of Slovenia at the European level be decided in the legislative branch of power. The Slovenian national party continues to insist and will insist that it is the most fair thing for citizens and citizens to be, unfortunately, not yet, a single region. One Slovenia, one region which should receive part of European aid for its development. This aid would be equally and evenly distributed and fairly where areas need assistance. If we are in Europe, if Europe offers 25 countries an opportunity to set up a region to receive assistance if they do not reach 75%. Slovenia is also a country and why Slovenia does not do so within it and says: "Now in Slovenia, as one region that will receive European assistance, we will also give fair assistance to all those municipalities, whether they are in the west, the east, the north or the south, to all those municipalities that do not exceed or do not reach the same number of 75% of the gross social product that Slovenia achieves." Why are we smarter than the Pope? I can't support it, but I don't mind 14, but I can't support it forward. What's gonna happen? Because today it says, "By the time the landscapes are established, when this is accepted, there will be nothing later, the provinces will be different. [[...]] No, the provinces will be like that. But this moment I say: Gorenja Development, Goriška Developmental, Coastal-Kraška, Notranjska and Central Slovenia will not receive European assistance. Pika. If we're going to divide into two regions, and they tell people that today, no matter how poor they are. If that happens, I want to know where and how. The Slovenian national party was right. One region should have been achieved three years ago, one and within this one region to do the same as Europe. To all municipalities, all the provinces that will help if they do not reach 75% of the gross social product, as Europe does to all countries. This would be fair to Slovenian citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I must say that I have little difficulty in understanding what I have just heard, because at this point, Slovenia is undoubtedly one region, as far as the division with the European Union is concerned. Our problem is that we are one region and that no financial perspective has been adopted. Our problem is that we will go over this average of gross social product in the next period, and in this situation we will lose the possibility of using European funds. So that's what we're talking about. In this light, the government has come up with this proposal that, if I call it a national assembly, it will authorize it to divide Slovenia into two, or if the possibility of these further negotiations, and if it goes in this direction, possibly into three cohesion regions, what some, especially the opposition, require. But the fact is that Regulation 1059/2003 states that the region must have 800,000 inhabitants, that is, more than 800,000, cannot have less. If, thank God, we can achieve this in the negotiations, then we can negotiate and even divide Slovenia, if you want, into three cohesion regions, which would be optimal. What some are saying about exceptions, however, the government has repeatedly explained that there are exceptions to those countries that do not as a whole. These are Cyprus, Malta and Luxembourg. Here we are constantly spinning in a vicious circle and constantly repeating and trying to criticise the current government and the current ruling coalition in some way. I was a member in the previous term that the current opposition does not actually have a great right to criticise in this way, because the law on coherent regional development has already been drafted in the previous mandate. But more than that you have prepared it and that even the National Assembly has placed it on the agenda of the meeting, then here in this National Assembly, also with the votes of DeSUS Members, has been removed from the agenda. We haven't come in much longer. And that bill then contained what the LDS is proposing today with the amendment to divide Slovenia into 14 development regions, it is said that two more are regulated from these 12 statistics, including what colleague Friday said to divide the Lower Podravje into two development regions. The development agency of this statistical region, Podravska, has in fact been completely inoperable. Inoperable because there were three of them, and then they argued with each other all the time. Why the previous government allowed this, this is some past, but three of them were fighting each other, and we finally got a joint development programme, which I would hardly call a development programme. Mostly on one of the lists were written some godly desires that the congregations of Podravja then dealt with and then accepted. But it was some kind of developmental document that had a list of what we'd like to do and it was in some infinite billions of Slovenian tolars, so I'd say over the thumb I'd estimate. Practically without any value. How many of these three development agencies are, the true Maribor Institute, the Economic Faculty, the Bird Bistra spent on their operations, and that's the second question. I think that much more than this area has received at this time for its development projects. And if anything, I like the most about this new law, in fact, the approach that the development agency will go under the Ministry's influence, that the ministry will keep an eye on the use of this money, and then project funding will follow. Only in this way is it possible in Slovenia to raise and devote more money to actually less developed areas, deprived areas, in a developmental sense. Of course, with the 2006 and 2007 budgets and the 2005 rebalancing itself, the government has significantly increased its capital and is also investing much more in local communities. Thus, for example, this sum will be 27 billion Slovenian tolars in 2006, and 58 billion will be planned in 2007. This is already money if it is properly used and if it is imbued with funds from the European Union that can do much. Nor do I understand the criticisms I have heard here by the opposition, if the money of the European Union is still not being used. So when you finished your term of office, colleagues, spending, except for agriculture, was nothing. And make statements here, as Dr. Pavlich said, that you need to stay away and just collect the money, please! Of course, this is not possible in this way. He says all you have to do is duck and collect the money. Is that true? I think it's necessary to have good projects, and it's not just up to the government, it's up to the mayors. Some here speak in the role of Members and might be asked what you have done about it. Did you help prepare these projects? Do we have these projects, we run these projects? The government is now working towards replacing this backlog and actually doing it in the right way. So much for this law in general. I would also like to touch the amendment before us, namely the amendment that divides Slovenia into 14 development regions. Of course I won't support this amendment. I would say that the writers of this amendment do not know how Slovenia is geographically composed. That is why I will only define myself until the part that separates the Podravje region into two, the Lower Podravje and the Upper Podravje. As far as this division is concerned, I must find that the writers of this amendment - of course, this has already been voted once at local level with the help of LDS councillors and your Member, Mr Trofenika - Ormož is suddenly placed in the pomura development region. So, the administrative unit Ormož was never part of Pomurje, never and never. Ormož was in a developmental sense, and in all other respects, it was always linked to Maribor or Ptuj. This environment binds us both to health, education, culture, inspection services and economic initiatives. All of a sudden, there's a proposal that Ormož connects with Pomour. Writers who wrote this do not know that, for example, between Ptvo and Ormož, a new road connection is planned under the national highway construction program, which is 20 kilometers away, while the distance to Murska Sobota is once again that, it is 40 kilometers and more. And, of course, the road connection is much worse than it is against Ptuj and Maribor. But this dilemma, this division has already appeared in the previous reference, already Minister Kovaceva predicted that Ormož should be ranked in Pomurje, and once I discussed it with her, she said to me, "What would be wrong if the Ormojans started going to the Mursophos Hospital?" I said, "Yeah, nothing but driving once!" Now we drive 20 kilometers to Ptuj, then we drive 45 kilometers. And we're also tied to Ptuj and we've always gone to Ptuj and people are connected to Ptuj anyway. And I have nothing against the Pomurjes, I am a very good friend of many Pomurjes, and I have spoken on several occasions in the name of Pomurje. However, serving us on a table of such proposals and then selling it as some good solution is, to say the least, pure political fiasco. The Ormoans would never accept something like this, people of course, but it was accepted by the municipal council, in which the majority of them have a liberal democracy, which is calculating with some of their own, I would say, LDS accounts. This will not work out, of course, and I am against it, and I will also vote against it, but I know that this is probably also put into this amendment with the help of my fellow Member, Mr Trofenik, who has strongly strengthened the Liberal Democratic Party in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Barovich, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you. I think I have a business opportunity, a brief replica of Mr Sok's words that you are Members and Mayors here and ask you what you have done to obtain European funds - if I understand correctly. Well, I'll tell you that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u47	I'd like a quick word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u48	Very short. I will tell you that we have done everything, but others, those who should, have not informed us that European funds are available. The worst is the case of Trbovlje, Hrastnik. We applied because Europe requires you to apply within the region, to cover at least 50,000 people and more, but that is the worst question. Although we have applied on the basis of the existing statistical region and we are, thank God, this moment a pilot project for European funds and I think we are just ahead of getting them. But the worst question is that. However, many cannot apply, they cannot, because the question of what we are talking about today is not resolved, the issue of regionalisation within a country in connection, again, for the third time and I will not, I stress, with regionalisation at European level. And here we are again: if there were one region, we would have common funds and we could divide them into existing statistical regions. But if we don't and when we don't, we won't be able to share these funds by any means, whether we have 17, 20, 15, 3 regions! We won't be able to, because we're going to have two, because the Western is going to be developed, and the Eastern is not going to be developed. In this is the problem and it is only, I will say, the answer from practice out that the mayors - I believe, too, my other colleagues, regardless of the political color - are trying, but many have come to the point that European funds cannot be used because regionalisation is not so regulated, already at the European level, that they can say O. K., Trbovlje, Hrastnik, we're together with Zagor, we're connected, 50 thousand - we can. For example, small congregations cannot do so, sadly. And they said, we have all the conditions, we have all done, but we have 15,000 of us all together, which we can gather together, but the condition is 50,000 to give cohesion certain resources for a particular project and unfortunately they were poor. It's just an explanation from practice and theory, and it's only right to hear it and talk about how to solve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. Mr Pavel Rupar has the floor. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u50	It's the truth, I apologize. The position of the congregation council of the congregation of Ormož is given in writing and each member of the national assembly and another can read. The municipal council of Ormož is applying for the existing statistical region Podravje. However, the fact that my Group of Members has tabled another amendment has nothing to do with me as a Member of Parliament, and I have never supported it. The law, however, provides an opportunity for natural and urgent integration on the basis of neighbouring interests - this is with the municipality of Ljutomer - which is in the Pomur statistical region. Therefore, the allegations, Comrade Sok, because you are a member of the congregation council, are well - known and do not use such untruths because they are not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Let me first challenge the words of my colleague Barovic. What he was saying wasn't true. This simply does not hold up and money from cohesion or from the European Union for projects that are well-prepared is also coming. However, it is necessary for this to be truly, as Europe requires, prepared materials, prepared projects and then this money, I can say from practice, comes. So much for an explanation. Now, if you'll allow me; so when we started this point according to the explanations of the parliamentary groups, I was so confused at first that I didn't really know what point we were at, when I realized that actually the seduction, the intentional seduction of colleagues by the opposition, was an excellent manoeuvre. What they have tabled to the amendment or as an amendment to Article 6 is in fact the essence of this manoeuvre, and this is to move away from criticism so that the previous government and the inability of the previous government to act on cohesion laws are somehow removed. This is very clever, but I am glad that at least those of you who have debated from the side of the position did not fall for this manoeuvre. The law before us, the law promoting coherent regional development, does not mention either 12 developmental and 14 development regions. He doesn't mention them anywhere. So it was some kind of move, some kind of political skill, which can only be called that if it succeeds. I'm glad it didn't work out. Very many and strange things have been heard in the debate. So that also led to my confusion. See, all the criticism and all the explanations or explanations given by the amendment's proponents are incredibly binding. Only one sentence: "With this we have given the government additional time to think about the division of Slovenia into regions." Sorry, this government does not think about it because it cannot, because it does not accept the cohesion region itself! So there's nothing to think about. This needs to be discussed with the partner, and this is the European Union. And this law does not give this government anything but to negotiate with them, and the traveller to this government is to negotiate for three cohesion regions. At least that's how I understood my coalition colleagues, and at least that's how this mandate we gave to the government was explained, and that's right. However, if this fails, of course, I am already pointing to the unfairly biased and malicious criticism of this government if it fails to negotiate three regions. This is not the task of this government, but it is a recommendation, but it was the task of the previous government to at least prepare the starting points, but it is not because it was not possible, because the European Union in the European Parliament voted on the laws that set the conditions for the establishment of these cohesion regions and then, as far as I know, none of the governments of the time from or from the negotiators, nor in the accession or later, did it, I believe it more than not - or was not able to negotiate different conditions than the members of the European Union then adopted them. Therefore, this government goes there with some traveler, with a heavy burden if it succeeds. But I ask you to be correct, let us also acknowledge the maneuver I mentioned, was exposed or the day to forget about it. The former government was the one who should accept these conditions, and today they would not have negotiated later, they would not have asked, they would not have given no nonsense that this government has time to reconsider. The accounts and calculations are perfectly clear. Here being smart, math being played, doesn't make any sense, because it's clear. More of these regions, better for Slovenia. This is the first objective and, of course, this government has accepted it - but how, if, in the previous term, you have closed this door without negotiation with incompetent negotiators. If it works out, I'll be very happy; if it doesn't work, don't criticize this government! These twelve or fourteen development regions, if anyone is the first in this country to support the Sava region, it is me. No. Yeah, I got it. Excuse me. The Slovenian Democratic Party, then the Social Democratic Party, submitted a proposal for fourteen regions in the previous mandate. It can't be seen and can't be blinded here. We were the first to be for Savinesjko-Salek and also for the avian region, including twelve statistics. No! No! You weren't there first with your mayors, you were there with the United List! Absolutely not! The first ones were people, the first ones were people! And the first felt that in the last 15 years or so, I'm going to say, now there's something wrong with 12-year-old development there. Make them feel neglected! And the first people warned that previous government that you were making up, that something needed to be done for these regions to get money. And I am sure that in this Chamber I very, very much doubt if on the fingers of one hand is the power to count those who were against the fourteen regions. So, what were you talking about? Nothing. Demagogy, mere drowning and mere deception, from the problem of cohesion to the problem that is actually solved, at least that's how I see it, and I think it's also one of the travels of this government, to start negotiations with the 14th not with the 12th, with the 14th! I am confident again, and I hope that it will succeed, but if you don't, I'm sorry, again it can't be critical of this government, but of the past. Today I also heard the word: tell me, Mr Minister and Government, where you went, where you went, who you negotiated with, who you lobbyed with. Yes, excuse me, tell me, the previous government where she was, who she lobbyed with, who she convinced where she was; I know very much, but it can be squeezed into a simple sentence - much to walk with, nothing to do. But this government has made an establishment not to walk, but is waiting for the starting point of this Parliament, on the recommendation of this Parliament, that it will then be able to fix what the previous government has not done. However, criticism is entirely justified because so much untapped money from cohesion - yes, forgive me, no country in the European Union has such a bad result, but we do not have it because we do not have regulated legislation. Now we are in a hurry in one year and in one year we have done as much in this area as you did 12 years ago and we have not. And this is that for the first time we have laws to deal with, in procedure -- sorry, that's not funny, look at history, and you'll see, at least show me the approximate efforts of the previous government in this direction. I've also been for years and years - maybe too, but I don't remember it because it just wasn't. And I am therefore pleased that we have taken this step out of fear that we will no longer miss out on this money, which is intended for equality of development, for the equitable development of Slovenia elsewhere. And I hope that today's marriage, as proposed, will also be confirmed and I appeal to the opposition, not to speak now if this amendment is not adopted, and then we will not give us a mandate, nor for cohesion. That's, excuse me, ostrich behavior, head to the sand. If we trusted a road trip to cohesion, I don't know where the point is, then we don't say, "Government, go with 14 development regions before Europe, if you negotiate, fine, if not, Europe will say its own." And that's what the opposition should do, give this opportunity, whatever the deal is, but if you need it, I don't know, and let's propose an hour off, and let's take this matter up to date. But today we are talking about the development, even development of all Slovenia, and here the conditions: if this is the case, then I will not be the one, it cannot be. It just can't be, because then you just deny the possibility of cohesion and you're against it. That's why I'm asking you for further consideration, not the government. The opposition must think further about whether it will bear or accept criticism, that it is simply against what I can say that it has not been able to do before, or, yes, but to give an opportunity to correct its mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you. Here you go, please. What do you want, Mr. Squeakl?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u54	I repeat to Mr. Ambassador. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u55	Just a minute. I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u56	This mentions a whole bunch of previous negotiators, we know who the previous negotiators were. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u57	I don't know if I could give you my word, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle. Let me ask you something. What are you replicating?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u58	I repeat that the previous negotiators did not do what was possible as much as possible. I want to see a gentleman. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u59	I don't know if I could give you my word by the Rules of Procedure, but you're right behind Mr Barovic, but please take this. Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u60	I have a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u61	What is it I'm asking for, a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u62	Mr Pavel Rupar claimed that what I said was not true, that money was coming, but that it was necessary to have projects. Look, I'm done. Yes, my dear fellow, it is true, but it is the other way around: we have projects and there is still no money.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u63	Please, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u64	Mr Vice-President, it is true that Mr Rupar did not mention any words in his performance, but he mentioned the previous government, and in this government we are at least two - sitting here - who were involved in one way or another, even directly in the negotiating process, so it is clear, of course, that the business reasons for the replica are given. I suggest that, Mr Vice-President, you give the opportunity to replicate either to Mr Squill or to me, I also wanted to speak to him myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you. Look, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u67	Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u68	Here, of course, I want to address the wrong arguments. The previous government didn't close its doors. Before the signing of the agreement in Athens, the former government stated that the negotiations on regionalisation in Slovenia would be opened between 2004 and 2006. The former government is directly after the entry into the European Union - and there are quite a few professional colleagues, including some who are sitting in this Chamber - this procedure has begun, negotiations with the European Union have begun. In last August, I hosted the European Commissioner for Regional Development, Mr Jacques Barrot, and explained to him that, of course, for Slovenia, two regions that have the form of a doughnut, a central Slovenia and everything else, something that is extremely difficult to accept, and that is why we also decided in September - the previous government - to adopt a position, the negotiating base of the Republic of Slovenia, that it is best to negotiate three regions for Slovenia. That this is indeed the best position, ladies and gentlemen, you confirmed when we adopted the amendment to the declaration in March, in which we said that if the negotiations were concluded by the end of June or by the time Slovenia is below 75%, we would be one region if negotiations were to go beyond 75%, that is, through June or December of this year, and we would stand for three regions because it is the best in the strategic interest. I thus reject the false, false accusations of Members that the previous government has closed the door. It's the other way around! You would have closed the door if a law had been passed with two regions. This would be a closed door and Slovenia could never open this door again. That is why it is good - and I will also talk about this in my debate - that we are discussing this and that we are tying up the negotiations that we are conducting at home between the coalition and the opposition on the best for Slovenia by negotiating with the European Union. And that's what needs to be talked about today, not judging, like you're already doing this whole mandate that the previous government hasn't done. This government, I'm sorry, failed to get more than a billion dollars out of the European Union within ten months. These are the facts. Well, look, the numbers are clear, the wrong indications were right here. I objected that the previous government did not close the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as cohesion regions are concerned, this government reacted at a given time in the only possible way, always, even when it proposed the solution that was needed at the time. [[It's an ad from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u71	Can you please calm down? Mr. Squeakle, you received a replica that lasted exactly three minutes. What would you like? Mr Žagar is a government representative and I can give him my word at any time to explain. Please, Mr. Secretary, continue. [[It's an ad from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u72	I will when I can.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u73	Please! I have given no word to anyone but Mr Minister, and I ask you to calm down and allow him to continue his implementation. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, again. As regards the proposals relating to the negotiations on cohesion regions, this government has always reacted at a given time in a manner which was then the only relevant. As regards the opening of the doors, in connection with the negotiations for cohesion regions, this year this government opened on Coreper. This government opened them up. As far as European funds are concerned, however, the fact is that nothing was exhausted in the area of structural funds last year. That's also a fact. And now we're trying very hard to speed this train up, and the movements are already showing. And he's been trying to mislead the public all the time about it. It is true, however, that the things that have been, in the past period, been, in part, seduced, cannot be put in a positive direction overnight; however, a huge amount of energy needs to be invested in the fact that we can do these things at all. I hope we will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I hope and wish that this train leads in the right direction with the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has sent to the National Assembly. When many people today spoke about Slovenia as a whole and about some of the places they came from, I thought it was right to tell myself where I came from. However, I say this because I am trying to enlighten and somehow bring about some sort of illusion that I come from places where the law on promoting coherent regional development, which was or is still in force, was in no way acceptable to them. The municipalities of Majšperk, Reaper, I see in Haloza are unfortunately those places that, as I said before, have been somehow forgotten. Forgotten because, unfortunately, many households in these places do not have enough consistent regional development to drink water from public water today. The rapporteur of the National Assembly, which we received on the bench yesterday and today, cheered me up mainly in those items where these places are somehow a priority and also provide them with drinking water resources. I am convinced that even when the current government has proposed a law to promote coherent regional development, it is serious to think that many places that have been somehow forgotten in the past are also developing in a coherent regional way. And as for, in particular, when we consider Article 6 and the amendments tabled, I must say that I myself have been skeptical since the very beginning when we also discussed the draft law in Article 6 on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. I had already missed - or perhaps it would not be right, as some of the local environment suggested that it would be right for fourteen development regions. Would it then be right, then, to continue to have three cohesion regions? These dilemmas have been clarified by the competent officials of the competent ministry under the guidance of Dr. Žagar. At least as regards the so-called coalition or MPs, which we somehow wanted more concrete and clearer answers. Today, there is no question of whether there should be fourteen, twelve, or perhaps thirteen or perhaps sixteen so - called statistical or development regions. Today, this is left out in Article 6 of the Government, which will be in accordance with the Regulation of the European Community, as set out in Article 6, act quickly and that those objectives, which also define this temporary Regulation in detail, will be achieved. And that is precisely why it does not seem right for many advocates today to say what a great harm it will be for Slovenia to be without 14 statistical regions. No, because the government of this - or by approving this proposal of Article 6 - does not in any way close the possibility because the number of so-called statistical regions is not mentioned, is not limited or is not mentioned. This is left to the government, and I am sure, as the Minister has already said today, that the current government in this area, when we consider the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development, is serious. I also expect that, on behalf of those members of the coalition, which we have clearly and definitively defined in this regard, that proposal of Article 6 remains as proposed and also coalitionly coordinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Squeakl made an earlier statement to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u78	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, representatives of the government, the media and the guests! I think today's debate is very important. I would even say that the most important debate has been since we entered the European Union and since we have been looking for a way to accelerate the development of Slovenia. In doing so, allow me to make an assessment that it is not a real question one, two, three regions or anything less than fourteen, thirteen regions at all. Why isn't that a real question? Because, directly under the regulation, we have thirteen development regions. Two cohesion regions belong to us directly under the Regulation. The right and only right question to be discussed in the National Assembly today is: Is the Republic of Slovenia capable of negotiating, as a full and equal member of the European Union, to exercise rights and to preserve national interest within the European Union? Two regions belong directly to us, thirteen development regions as well. This is because the government has to use all the arguments and all the adutes for these negotiations. And if we look at the law itself, it gives an overall answer in its articles 5, 6 and 7. I've already said this to the local self-government committee because the law in Article 7 speaks of plurality. He's talking about cohesion regions. If the government is serious about two people, then it should be "cohesian region" or they thought one, it should be "cohesian region". So, in the very law we already have very clear, in Slovenia we can only have three cohesion regions. It is equally true that the law lays down in Article 5 a very clear expression of what a developing region is. That this is a functional territorial unit, etc., and then wrongly, instead of telling in Article 6 what development regions we have, in fact, is contrary to what was the agreement of the parliamentary parties - but perhaps, as just one Member said, the agreement of the ruling coalition - was not defined in Article 6 of which these development regions are. Therefore, our amendment to Article 6 is to tell us what these development regions are like in Slovenia. Why do we say that? This is to say that our authorised negotiators, represented on the one hand by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, on the other hand, our negotiator and it is written by Mr Senčar, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Slovenia, not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Slovenia in Brussels, will have very clear instructions from this National Assembly on what these development regions are. The issue that we have today, what is not a real debate, who has not done, what is not a real debate; the debate that we have today or now that we are a European Union member of the European Union, we are able to negotiate well as Slovenia with the European Union. Here were some wrong arguments: yes, all the views are presented in the National Assembly anyway - that is not true! Mr Janša went on his first visit to Mr Barroso and told him without permission in February, without this National Assembly, the region is not a problem in Slovenia, regionalism in Slovenia is not a problem! Likewise, Minister Lukačič, if I give the last case, unauthorizedly, past the European Affairs Committee's decision, despite the fact that we have been alerting this for 14 days, in Brussels, the so-called Committee on Agriculture of the Council of Ministers said that we have a problem and that all we want is an exception to the fact that we can implement as many regions as we directly belong to it, sooner than in 3 years. Or else: On 1 January 2006, if there is no European agreement on the next financial perspective under the British Presidency, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will go to Brussels and say: "On the basis of a declaration from the Committee of Ministers of the month of September we want to negotiate with you about the regions..." - and now we have a conflict here about how many regions. The law speaks - plural - three; of course, the government did not make it clear in the special declaration that it is three regions, but we would like to negotiate it already in 2006. Now, it is quite clear that, for the development of Slovenia, it is most appropriate to have three regions, I do not need to explain, it is that, of course, and this is also a good understanding by the European Commissioner, Ljubljana, as the central region, as the hub of the two corridors, will draw different resources from the European budget, mainly related to trans-European and other infrastructure projects and, of course, what was proposed by the Government - Ljubljana to connect with Gorenjska and Primorsko. That is why, of course, I would say that the Government's proposal, which it quickly adopted - to remind you, on June 23, 17 June evening or June 18th, the Luxembourg proposal failed due to British opposition. The collapse of Luxembourg's proposal meant that Slovenia must receive more than 1 region, so on Monday 20 June, the LDS Members proposed changes to the constitution, and on 23 June the government adopted a proposal, namely, two regions, "Better to hold it than to hunt it." This government proposal to divide into two regions, such as you, the government, you yourself have proposed in the bill, but it would be a disastrous solution and of course would close the door. It is clear that such a division would have harmed the western part of Slovenia for decades, perhaps because of what has been said - we know, from the last referendum, what Western Slovenia feels about this government - and therefore this proposal would be the end of the negotiations. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the agreement of the parliamentary parties, withdraws from this proposal and, in fact, says that it wants to have authority in the National Assembly, is correct; however, it forgets what is essential in this mandate. And it is crucial in this mandate whether the government will link the negotiations on the number of regions with the key negotiations that are under way in the EU, which are, of course, negotiations on the next financial perspective. And it is good that the parliamentary parties, after we have written something publicly, met on this subject this July. But let me tell you what's behind this. The background is the information received by the government that Slovenia is likely to be below 75% in December and that it is not in a hurry to adopt this law by December. This law can be peacefully adopted in September, October, because if we complete the next financial perspective, the agreement on this, by December, is for Slovenia, as stated in the declaration, that we are still the best region in the period 2007-2013. The problem is that it looks very bad in terms of negotiations on the next financial perspective. Therefore, the government should, clearly, also through the communications in this National Assembly, begin to link negotiations on the number of cohesion regions with its agreement on the next financial perspective. Therefore, of course, the second key question we need today is, Minister, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: Will you link negotiations with the European Union on the number of cohesion regions with negotiations on the next financial perspective? Are you going to make it clear that in order for Slovenia to get 100 additional billions, we need either three cohesion regions or in the next financial perspective an exception? We know that this is primarily a negotiation with the neighbouring country, our neighbour in the north, Austria. They are the Presidents of the European Union. What are you talking to them for? I hope when the Minister for Foreign Affairs walked through Pirano, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u79	Mr. Squeakle, I'd like to ask you, we're talking about the amendments to Article 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u80	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u81	And it's a little too wide for this debate. I'd like to ask you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u82	Everyone was talking. Look, I'm gonna go back to this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u83	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u84	The question whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs of neighbouring Austria told the Minister of Foreign Affairs when he walked in Piran how important it is that the Piran municipality, together with the other municipalities in the special western region, will be together. I hope it is, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs will have a lot to say in a few months. See what "casin" was like last night and tonight on the topic of Turkey and Croatia. And there is much that can be achieved in direct negotiations if this is linked to the achievement of the strategic interest which for Slovenia is to receive the maximum revenue from the following financial perspective. Thus, the second question is important to the Minister. The third issue directly related to this Article is the question of these so-called 14 development regions. Mr Janša was on a visit to Savinjsko-Shaleski krajina - I am also home from Velenje - and he made it clear there, we will assure you, this ruling coalition will provide you with a development region, a province. Today, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, by pressing the button, you will confirm whether Mr Janša's words were simple smokescreens or are you seriously thinking. Or do you seriously mean with 14 development regions, one of which is the Savinja-Shale region, but also the others, of course, not to mention them. If you do not, there will be at least a great difference between the words of the Prime Minister when he visits the Savinja-Shale region and today's action. Today's action! Today, by "no" to the LDS amendment, you will simply say that you are not in favour of the municipalities in the Savinij-Shale region being able to tell themselves what kind of region they want to have. And that's all we wrote in our amendment. We have written down what is essentially the key issue that the development region is a functional territorial unit that brings together municipalities in order to best implement regional policies. So we have three main questions. Will the government negotiate seriously, or will we give her a mandate in the National Assembly or elsewhere? Secondly, in these serious negotiations will you be able to link negotiations on the next financial perspective with negotiations on the number of cohesion regions? And: will you, as the ruling coalition, confirm the words of the Prime Minister, or will those words simply remain a smoke screen? Of course, I will regret it very much if this amendment is not voted out. And one last thought. By proposing to you - Mr Žagar will remember, this proposal was given in the text I published in the evening, so some of you have named it at this meeting of parliamentary parties - when we proposed that the government be given a mandate in the law, we said at the same time, but this government must first begin to negotiate and, on the basis of the mandate of the law in connection with the negotiation of the next financial perspective, propose a final solution. If you do not do so, you will unauthorizedly close the door and you will be unauthorized representatives of the ruling coalition, about 50 of you, each with a push on the button will blow up 2 billion additional funds that Western Slovenia can get if you had three cohesion regions. These are calculations, EUR 400 million is a negative profit if there were only two instead of three cohesion regions. These are today's decisions, and everything else is a classic accusation or non-accusation of previous governments, when this government, too, can talk about it, does not do what it should do - deal with the best possible governance of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. One moment, excuse me. Mr. Kokal would like to discuss or something else?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u86	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u87	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u88	I would like to remind you that you are holding a substantive debate as the amendments go. Mr Cwickl discussed cohesion regions that are not the contents of Article 6 because such a debate would be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u89	I know that this debate is a problem, not just with Mr. Squeakle, but with some others. I hope you won't be discussing it the same way. I'm the one who warned you about this, and we're gonna stick to it now. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I will now be forced to repeat once again, which I have already said at least once today, if not twice, but I am not sure if the Member has listened to me, as I am probably not now. For the first time, as regards the agreement that was held at the meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary parties, this coalition also fully adhered to it by this proposal. The mandate for cohesion regions was given to the government. As far as the development regions are concerned, I also made it very clear - there was no agreement. The proposal is well founded, as I have already said, and it was, of course, an agreement to hold a preliminary debate on this. With regard to the seriousness of the government's negotiations, you can be sure that the government is seriously negotiating to negotiate at a given time in accordance with the negotiating points which have been confirmed here also on the European Affairs Committee and negotiates on the basis of what is on the negotiating table. And at this point, it's pointless to talk about numbers, because when the negotiations are concluded, new numbers will be. But you can be sure that the government will do everything in its power to be seized for Slovenia as much as possible, and I cannot imagine any other negotiations. As regards links and negotiating points, including cohesion regions, they will then be presented in a given situation on the European Affairs Committee. The government will certainly go to the negotiating points, as it did before the conclusion of the negotiations in Luxembourg. I have yet to make it very clear that what the Member of Parliament has said is not true. The Prime Minister did not talk about the development regions, but spoke about the provinces and said this very clearly when the issue was raised in an interview with the Presidents of the parliamentary parties; however, it is a shame that the President probably did not, Mr Member, have informed him. And it is always, and even now, repeatedly trying to bring into this law regions or landscapes along a foreign route. This law does not speak of the provinces. If it is indeed the purpose, which we will see of course, because the debate is open at this time, as regards the establishment of landscapes, if it is a serious policy objective, then we will get to the provinces very quickly. However, the provinces are also essential for the decentralisation of the country, which, of course, I am absolutely, absolutely sure of. As for the three provinces, such as the Liberal Democracy proposal, on the second day or perhaps even the same day that the negotiations were concluded, it was, of course, completely unrealistic at the moment - as far as the procedures themselves are concerned. And the second time he was lifeless as far as Slovenia is concerned. I cannot imagine the decentralisation of Slovenia in the event of only three provinces. For me, this is not decentralisation, it is an even greater threat than we have now, it means moving one centralism to three other centralisms that can be much more difficult and much more problematic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My debate is about the Minister's statement in his first debate when he spoke about: [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Yes, yes, in Article 6, which speaks of developing regions. [[...]] At that time, the minister mentioned or argued that those who proposed an amendment to Article 14 of the development regions were acting in contravention of the introduction of the provinces in Slovenia. And we're not serious about the provinces. We, with this amendment, or now we are left with only the LDS amendment, because we did not put ours for the same text, we simply wrote into this law what the government predicts when it walks in Slovenia. This government speaks of fourteen provinces and fourteen provinces we also consider to be developing regions, so we think they need to be incorporated into this law. Because landscapes without development components, if they are not development regions, are only a cost and we do not need them - even those who advocate the decentralisation of Slovenia! And we actually wrote into this law what you say in Slovenia. Now it's supposed to look like this: the development regions are one thing, the landscapes are another, in a while, and in a beautiful sunny day, it's going to be the same. So, the development region and the province, the province with the function of the development region. I strongly oppose the claim that those who support this amendment oppose the decentralisation of Slovenia and introduce the provinces into this law on regions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u94	The implementation of the Member's mandate, of course, is not entirely true, of course I did not say so, but of course I said I was afraid that this could mean it. That's right. However, as for this part, I must make it very clear that all of you who have debated here have claimed that the establishment of the provinces must involve the congregation. In preparing this amendment, the congregations were not involved at this time, but quite something. If you allow a few comments, we have heard at least two Members who have already made this very clear. I am not talking about certain solutions, but the whole process did not involve the congregation. And I repeat: if, of course, the political will is to establish the provinces, even if there are fourteen, we can quickly establish them. And at the same time, they're going to take on exactly what you said, this development function. However, as regards the continuation of negotiations on this division, of course in connection with the European Union, there will be a completely different negotiating venue at this point in Slovenia, because it will be necessary to negotiate for an exception which is not currently in the European Organisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u96	If a procedure is presented to the Minister in the National Assembly, during which the debate would be postponed for 30 days in order to comply with the relevant Article of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. And the congregations were involved, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much. A representative of the government would like a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Well, just as the Minister has already said that the municipalities were not fully involved in this process of preparing the amendment for Article 6, it should be said that the parent committee, which monitored and took all the initiatives of the municipalities, received initiatives from various municipalities. This led to an initiative from the Municipality of Logatec, where the municipal council had already adopted a decision long ago to join the Notranj-Kraška region. This amendment contains the proposal that Logatec is still part of the Central Slovenian region. The mother committee also received a proposal or letter from the mayor of the municipality of Lithium proposing that Lithuania is in the so-called Sava development region, not in central Ljubljana. The amendment does not summarize these decisions here either. I'm not talking about decisions about Lower Podravje and so on. All of these are solutions that are not consistent with the decision that municipalities must be active and fully co-decision in which the statistical or development regions want to implement their development projects. Therefore, this is probably not the time to decide on such an administrative division and, with the amendment as it is, it is necessary to continue the solution in this transitional time under the Government's regulation, and after that time, we expect the appropriate political agreement to be taken into account - in the government, very soon - on the establishment of the provinces. At that time, what the sparrows are already snorkeling in the branches of 14 provinces will probably become an act. And that's when the country should also be immersed in its development and administrative function. Everything else is overtaking on the left or on the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much. It's a nice greeting from this town, too! It's Mr. Juban's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. From the debate I found that we all have the same problems with terminology alone: the province, the region. We use this term in different ways and then we may also be misinterpreted when we talk about the development region and we are doing the same thing to the cohesion region and to the province. But this is a finding, by the way, that maybe the government would take a definitive position on what we're going to talk about. We are talking about Article 6 and the amendment to Article 6. In doing so, we can find that members of some coalition parties also support this article, with minor modifications, and we have now heard this from the government - to agree with 14 regions and that "discussual" may only be by unifying ourselves with regard to local communities, communities that will belong to a particular region. Apparently, there was no political will in the past. That's true, but where was the political will? Let's just remember the reasons! Due to the conditionality of two-thirds of the consent of the municipalities - just now we have heard, the consent of all the municipalities - some other consensus and, of course, the change of the constitution, which required a two-thirds majority, happened that we did not come to this. But it is the very same parties that have made the most of these things that I am talking about that are sitting in the government today. And if we will also be in the future in this position that Mr Rokavec has just provided - if I understand correctly - I have written down - that the municipalities are co-decisions on the design of the region, then we will never have them, Comrade Rokavec - former colleagues, I apologize. Because so much of the congregation’s full agreement that we can do 14 regions after any division, we will never have one. This means that political intervention will be needed and then we will make a decision. From the debate on this amendment, it seems that the "gunshots" of the Ormož o The correct conclusion is that a deal needs to be made. And to be clear, even the culprit for the fact that this is in this amendment, we have heard that the matter is "discussive" so that we can consider that otherwise, means that we can get closer to this amendment being adopted. Although this is not the only matter, perhaps it is not a real comparison that Ormož is envisaged in a Pomeranian region, even the new establishment of the bishops in the Bishops of Murskosoba has one option that Ormož is envisaged in Murskosohoška. And it's not exactly a fictitious idea, for no reason why Ormož should be in this region. We had a government visit among the first in Slovenia. Mr Minister was present when the Prime Minister made some rather optimistic announcements, one of which was, you will get the region, you will get the university, and you will get more help to get this region out of behind. He added to the region: we will establish regions without a change of constitution. And he added: He who laughs at you laugh back at him. It means that it is also in the government's will to go in this direction and possibly to unify ourselves about the amendment or amendments to this Article, to once come to this action, to establish regions and that the government and everyone else who can participate in this government are working on what the law says: to promote coherent regional development. We're also waiting for the university, and we're waiting for more help. But all these steps are too slow and in what is now the essence of this act of ours, I see that somehow the majority is to support this amendment. But those who should help this happen say in the last sentence that they won't support it for almost no reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic wants to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u102	Yes, I would like to point out, in a procedural way, that the congregations have been defined by this law, of course, those who have shown their interest and have been identified. It is not accurate or accurate to say that the congregations did not cooperate. I have before me a position on the proposal for a law on the promotion of coherent regional development by the Municipality of Velenje, which says: "The Council of the Municipality of Velenje proposes that the proposal for a law on the promotion of coherent regional development should be amended by establishing 14 development regions, including the Savinja Shaleška Development Region." So the congregations cooperated.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. On this occasion, let me point out that this is not an example of a procedural issue. The application of the Rules of Procedure should indeed apply to the application of the Rules of Procedure under Article 69. This was now, for example, what falls under the debate, not the use of the Rules of Procedure. We continue the debate. It's Mr. Stebe's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I will only try to limit myself to the amendment under discussion to this Article 6, where the LDS proposes from the current 12; I think that in their proposal for the law of their government, the 12 development regions in the 14 development regions. That's not really important. I think that just as a matter of pleasure or for any other reason from the municipal councils or anyone, to determine the number of areas that some development areas are supposed to be implementing national or cohesion development policy, of course, initiated from the ground, from the local level by the municipalities and all other partners, who are supposed to be involved in these development projects, is very fast and probably very much in mind. I believe that the consistent division of Slovenia to this place level will have to be done in an appropriate manner, both at the administrative level and at the development work we are talking about today, and also at the part where municipalities and the state are to pool some functions in the intermediate level and call them provinces. Now, here probably, at least to my mind, it's not rational to talk about different structures, about different numbers. I am even bothered by such a large number because I believe that most of the projects can also be driven centrally, is said at the level of Slovenia, because these are mostly difficult projects. More important is the transparency of the implementation of this agreed policy by municipalities and all partners and the fair and proper management of such projects in the country. In previous times - I have great experience - from Ljubljana, from the so-called central Slovenian statistical region, the Ljubljana urban region, where we prepared all the necessary project proposals in the municipality. For the projects that have been implemented in this Ljubljana urban region, no one has even referred to us. The only project that was very democratically guided were the so-called cycling routes, the cycling routes where we came from 2002 to today to typify the signs of these cycling routes, and the investment itself is not yet running. The essence of this law, at least it replaces, is not to determine the number of regions already in the law. It is essential that we make some consistency between the division of Slovenia by these three different types and not increase the administration. The essence of the replacement is covered by Article 31, which refers to the contractual area development partnership. I don't think the proposer here thinks the district strict congregation. It is important to find some partners who then conclude an appropriate partnership agreement with each other, but it is essential that the country, with its incentives and its rules, promotes such a partnership in favour of regulating certain matters in the area. I have a very poor experience of how difficult it is in some small country to bring together municipalities with a completely logically economically sound and environmentally sound project, to participate in joint implementation, such as decommissioning of waste water, and also to join an already existing central cleaning plant. It should be very clear here. On the other hand, you have even the tendency to get involved in a water supply system if some interests are to be shared, managed and then somehow ruled. So the essence, in my opinion, is a development partnership, but if, perhaps, we need and need a level of place, we should do it in harmony. This intermediate level, the number of these areas, should also somehow be weighed by the government in the sense that today many services can be provided directly to the citizen or to the local community. It is likely that more and more people will be able to obtain a lot of services either at home or directly in their municipality and that what is supposed to be an intermediate level is likely to require a very small number of well-professional administration officials who can implement a policy of both local level and a development policy of the state level. So that I do not support so quickly and already in the law of such determination of these NUTS 3 statistical regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Mir Petk to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone in this room. I think we're kind of worried about this 6th Article and the LDS amendment and we're kind of upset about the supply. The Minister here made it clear clearly and loudly, and it is clear to all of us that the provinces will be regulated by another law, and it has also been mentioned that there will be 14 of them. With regard to Sasha, mentioned here by colleagues, it is more or less clear. Savinja-Shaleška will be its region or province, and finally the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which visited the region, made this intention clear. I don't think she's visited any country or region that would be fiction. By the way, this government has not yet been in Koroška, and Koroška has been operating as a statistical region for some time. Otherwise, the first responses to this law on coherent regional development are quite indicative. I am personally reminded of those Slovenians who arrive at a social welfare centre in the morning with a BMW or a Mercedes and go to Bled, where they play golf, and then to Portorož in the casino in the evening. This is about the development of a part of Slovenia, the Western cohesion region, in which case it would also like to be part of this eastern or less developed region. This is at odds with all solidarity and with the coherent regional development that this law seeks to define. Personally, I would prefer to see the Koro region as part of a Western or developed cohesion region in Slovenia. Because in this case Koroška would certainly not be lagging behind 10,000 euros for central Slovenia or Ljubljana with its surroundings and would not be lagging behind 40% for the European average. If they were in the developed part of Slovenia, then the Korošks would certainly receive much more regional incentives, because pradox is that Ljubljana, with its surroundings or central Slovenia, receives the most regional incentives, so at least they show data from 2003. In this period Koroška was 6% behind the national average. The inter-regional migration balance is in Koroška minus 1 per 1,000 inhabitants and is the second highest in the country. I therefore welcome the spirit of this law, which speaks of regional incentives rising from the current percentage to half-second percent of gross domestic product, and I think it is more important that these regional incentives finally come into the right hands. I also think it's a good article 7, which just speaks of territorial divisions being determined on a proposal from the government. This is important if the government succeeds in achieving three cohesion regions or one cohesion region, so much the better. But I am sure that the government will negotiate very well with Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. The point of the development regions is, of course, that we are trying to obtain as much as possible from the European funds for our development needs and the solutions that we have before us today and also in the form of amendments trying to indicate some form of development regions. However, if we look, of course, at the expression in Article 5, what the development region is, we are talking in this law about a single spatially complete, combining the settlement economic, infrastructure and natural system and allowing some to provide equal opportunities for coherent regional development. From this point of view, I think it is very difficult to form a region that meets all these conditions and I think that we really need to try to reduce differences in Slovenia, especially in areas where we really have the biggest development problems. Many times in these development regions, we are trying to really talk more about the landscapes and less about the development itself, and I suggest that we are trying to really invest more energy in trying to come up with solutions and information that would really eliminate and actually help to eliminate development differences. Article 5 itself also provides a justification for the concept of specific regional policy measures, namely, the programmes referred to in Article 5, which are financed on the basis of financial plans, by budgetary users responsible for the implementation of regional policy at national level to reduce regional development differences and to address structural imbalances in individual priority areas of regional policy. We may already be closer to that urgent thought here. It is also true in Slovenia that priority areas that need special attention and most in the sky are certainly these priority areas. However, the law itself and also Article 6 does not say much about priority areas, which is then noted in Article 36, where we are talking about specific regional policy measures and the notion of priority area appears, but the process of determining the priority area is not precisely defined in the law or I can say that I do not really understand the procedure by which we could define a priority area in or within a development region, or I would say otherwise in the whole of Slovenia. This seems to me to be one of the key shortcomings of this law, while, of course, it leaves out the real part of the Slovenian territory and of the Slovenian places facing the greatest development problems. As an example and possibly an explanation, if I can get it from government representatives, I would like to mention mainly the southern border and also, of course, the Schengen border, which will surely face a much more difficult situation than all other areas in Slovenia, because of the Schengen border itself as one that brings restrictions. However, I would expect this law to be very clearly defined, particularly on the Schengen border and on development opportunities, or on development requirements in these areas. We are already faced with very serious problems in the area of Kolpa, where we find that the borders are literally empty from day to day, from year to year. So the population of this area is in decline, it is announced that schools and other institutions are being closed down, that we are not talking about banks and postal units that have already done this and are not wondering whether or not it is a development, but market logic has been telling them that it is no longer marketable for them. However, there is no real response, even in this law, that these shortcomings begin to be resolved. And I think it is a great defeat for Slovenian politics, as long as we allow any area to be emptied. This is a defeat we cannot justify in either coalition or opposition. In short, I think that we should have very clear answers to this very question, namely on specific areas with special development needs, and I think that the government, like the one negotiating with the Brussels Commission on what development regions and how many development regions we will have, is missing an important opportunity to vote, is negotiating the development region along the Schengen border. I think that there are some criteria that the European Union understands and respects, because the stability and development of life along the Schengen border is still in the interest of the European Union, and if the government does not think about defining the southern border or at least that part of the border represented by Kolpa, because there are no disputed territories, it is, of course, possible to really negotiate very good development measures and ask the Government whether it is thinking that it is simply an amendment that it will also determine the development regions itself through negotiations with the European Commission. So, is the government thinking about establishing a development region in the Kolpa River area and thus eliminating and providing an opportunity to solve truly extremely pressing problems and conditions in which both municipalities are located along this border river and also the economy, not to mention infrastructure far behind the rest of Slovenia? The railway stops in this area as a blind track and its carrying capacity is insufficient even for a more difficult load, only the material of the pieces can be safely run along this track and the liquid loads are not safe due to the small axle loads. That is why we are talking about an extremely, extremely difficult space, which somehow does not feel that the government would save it in its own solutions, especially in this law. Therefore, even at this moment, when the Minister has joined us, I ask whether the government is thinking about identifying one of the development regions in the Kolpa River area as well and thus responding to these extremely large development problems that we have in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We continue the debate on Article 6 and the amendments. It's Dr. Slavinec's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We have already heard in the introduction that the law on promoting more coherent regional development was created in time because of the benefits and conditions of the European Union, and in this way I can also partially respond to the criticisms why we had not already had the law before, if these initiatives were not available by the European Union and such conditions, we would not have it now. And I think it is right that we have received this draft law as much as we can follow the definition in its title, this is to promote more coherent regional development. This amendment concerns the issue of the division of Slovenia. I stand by my own view that sharing should be aimed at connecting people. Linking those people with common interests with a view to making these common interests possible to the fullest extent possible. In doing so, I would point out that the common interests are not only related to the European Union's drawing on of money, but we are still in Slovenia and we will live in Slovenia, and this does not show that we are subject to what the European Union envisages in its rules for drawing on funds. Coherent regional development is always a question of two layers: on the one hand, it is a matter of political direction and on the other hand, a view of the less developed. Undoubtedly, this was also one of the reasons why the law was so long gone, similar to the law on the incompatibility of Members and Mayors, since we have almost all political options between each and the other, and therefore these two levels and these two layers are so much more difficult to reconcile. However, I would like to point out that, at global level, rich countries estimate that their faster development shows that they are helping the less developed ones, and that they are also doing this with various measures, so much more so can Slovenia and Central Slovenia will also be able to ensure the faster development of less developed areas as well. For this reason, it points to the law and, above all, to the implementation of this law, to ensure positive discrimination against less developed areas, which we have heard of many times, since only then will it be ensured, through synergies, even the much faster development of the whole of Slovenia. Like I said, it's a division because of the connection. And that makes it so much more difficult to understand the decision to leave the way and the forms of this division to the government, because, finally, we are sitting in Parliament by representatives roughly evenly territorially distributed and it is easier to tell directly what the expectations, wishes and interests of the entire region are, as the centralistically can be assessed and done by the government. We have also heard about the problem of projects. These projects are certainly a problem somewhere, but in Pomurje from a month ago old experience shows otherwise. There, too, and due to the inadequacy of decision-making to which projects to give priority, it has led to a legitimate decision adopted by the old regional development monitoring body, then, on the basis of the world of the region, which is foreseen only by the law which we are considering today and which we will adopt in one form or another, this world of the region has thus changed without a formal basis, rejected, and, of course, at the expense of certain projects, unfortunately, precisely those which were of wider importance for the entire region. For this reason, I would like the decision on the regions to remain with those who are entitled to the law and that, as I have already said, in implementing this law, the Ministry would be as successful and as much as possible to ensure that the title of the law is, therefore, to promote coherent regional development. And the consistency of regional development I understand so that the differences between the level of development within Slovenia will not increase but, on the contrary, decrease. And this is not at the expense of developing regions being less developed and less developed, but that these regions, which are less developed at the moment, should develop faster, and I hope that we can all agree, but it is only possible that there will be significantly more investment in less developed regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support the amendment of the government coalition to Article 6. In fact, I don't see any problem if the government on the ground is talking about 14 development regions, because, in fact, this amendment of ours is, in this sense, also a composite one, because it does not now define the number of development regions and the government will be negotiating, I am sure, trying to do the most. So I don't see this problem, what the current government is explaining on the ground. However, I must say that the former government in the same area has in the past many times been causing problems, otherwise it has been a little less on the ground in undeveloped areas, but sometimes there is a minister or a lady minister, we know which one, and she has promised money for undeveloped areas. But this money was not there, so today we have such a difference between a developed and underdeveloped area in Slovenia. We know that the law on promoting coherent regional development was adopted in 1999, and we probably know the content that speaks how to ensure coherent regional development in the periods ahead. If I am not mistaken, exactly 6% of the state budget should be intended for this, but it is obvious that some of the terms of promotion were interpreted differently at that time. Tell me how hungry you'll be if you don't give him food, and it looks like they didn't get food, and some of them got dessert. These are facts, and I believe that this is one of the reasons mentioned above not to draw on the funds today, as financial resources have not actually been provided for the preparation of proper or concrete projects. Therefore, it would be right for matters to be cleared up first when someone explains it. I believe that this law is very well prepared and gives all guarantee to the current government that we will achieve coherent regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Žgajner Tavš's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President. Well, in this brief debate, I will refer to the amendment or article 6 of the proposed amended bill on promoting coherent regional development. On purpose, I have repeated the name of the law itself, which we are talking about promoting coherent regional development. This law lays down objectives, principles and organisation in Article 1. The objectives are clear, the principles are somewhat less clear, and even less clear is the organisation of this bill. Allow me, Mr Minister, to mention in one of your previous debates that from a speech delivered by a number of Members today in this Chamber it is possible to conclude that this is a matter of deceiving the public. I hope and expect you to answer my questions to avoid this deception to the public and now allow me to go specifically to my questions. I will base, or derive, exclusively from the law, on the objectives and principles enshrined in this law. I believe that the government is working towards reducing or reducing the differences, living opportunities of the population across the country, reducing the unemployment rate in the developing regions or increasing employment and eliminating structural disparities in the labour market, not least to reduce differences in quality of life and economic and social well-being and three peaks. Among the principles, let me mention the integrity of the implementation of regional policy throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, the partnership between the State and the municipalities and the public and private sectors, the definition and implementation of the development objectives of subsidiarity and, finally, yes, once again, I will link myself to coherent regional development. Now what I wanted, or what I want to learn from you, Mr Minister, in particular, the development regions, is what the amendment to Article 6 of the proposed law also refers to. The suction. The amendments proposed by Zasavje are classified as a development region, with the municipalities as far as the proposal is concerned. I have even heard from Mr Rokavac that Lithium is working to join the Zavek development region. I am only afraid that if we wait, we really wait for the government to shape the regions in its own way, that the saviour region will spread franticly, not because it would be so good to live in the saviva region, but because the GDP is still so low that it will allow the EU to raise funds. Now I am interested, or I am asking about the content of the proposed law, because the content is still very bare, at least according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, or this law, promoting coherent regional development, and I will also specifically refer to the Sava region, bring or bring what content? Does this mean that Zasavje, which has been forgotten in the past by the State, and where work has mainly been done on deepening development differences, will be seen in an integrated manner with the country? Does this mean that Zasavje will be returned to the district court, which we do not have today, as a development region? Does this mean that Zasavje will be given back to the police administration, the school authorities? What will actually be the form of administrative regulation? This is the content that we miss in the Slovenian National Party, and I hope that I will be, Mr Minister, because I believe that the government has finally prepared a strategy, even though it does not want to be clear today what development regions will be or how many of these development regions will be, that the government has a strategy in spite of everything. And I hope to receive the answers to the questions raised, on which you believe, is also the decision of the Slovenian National Party in today's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The minister wants a word, and then we'll move on. Thank you. Minister, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As a matter of fact, I have two questions to ask, Mr Vebra is not present. Now, as far as your questions are concerned, I must say that the content, of course, goes beyond this law. That's a fact. The content of the intervention, in fact, to what we have already warned many times today, and precisely because we are warning this, I think, as a government, we are obliged to point out, this is the subject of the establishment of landscapes in connection with the boundaries that have been made. This is not the content of this law in terms of, of course, only these development elements, as far as the regions are concerned. However, I agree with you that if we want to carry out a country's decentralisation project and if we really want to bring about development, then we need to actually bring this through the landscape establishment system. Now that all these contents are, of course, it is impossible to answer at this time. And as a result, we point out that, of course, it makes sense for congregations to participate in the formation of the provinces. And in this process, which has so far been carried out in connection with the adoption of this law, we, at least in terms of government service, have certainly found the lack of this slightly broader debate, in fact, not to be seen in the public eye. And, of course, I am sure that we will actually answer these questions by establishing the landscapes and I hope that this process will come to an end. But I agree with you, of course, that these are the questions that you have asked, of course. And maybe an answer to your questions earlier. The law already allows so-called regional development partnerships. And these areas have, or most of the statistical regions have, significant differences in development within each region, including Gorenjska, Goriška, as well as some others, on the other side of Slovenia and also this part, which is at the border with Croatia. And, of course, within these areas, it is possible to draw up programmes that will respond to these development issues, and the government also, in accordance with Article 35, I think, provide for specific measures that can be defined annually in relation to this law. Finally, at this time, of course, we have already dedicated special resources, such as for border issues, particularly infrastructure, and I hope that, even through the adoption of the budget, where the volume of resources for regional development is substantially increasing, we will be able to respond even more clearly to this. In particular, in terms of improving infrastructure, because in this area we feel the greatest shortage at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u117	Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, a replica or a re-examination?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Allow me to briefly replicate or submit, if I may, an additional supplementary question. Look, I know what the landscapes are, what the regions are, at least roughly, because I believe the government doesn't know exactly, because the content isn't yet [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u119	The additional issue falls under discussion. Please, if you've been misunderstood, if not, I need you at the end. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u120	Yes, I was misunderstood because apparently Mr Minister does not know that I just wanted an explanation concerning the content of this law that we are considering today. Indeed, Mr Minister, it is among the objectives of this law that the Government is endeavouring, or that the objectives of promoting coherent regional development are, inter alia, to reduce differences in the economic development and livelihoods of the population. And the region, a development region that is neglected, deserves to be adopted by law, to be included in the objectives. So that the people of Zasavje also get equal living opportunities in relation to the rest of the regions. Therefore, I have begun, Your Honor, Minister. When we talk about the provinces, then I believe that we will determine the content that will be separated, or bound only to the province. In the regions, or in this case, the country still has a hand over the development regions. And once again, I ask you, does this mean, as a developmental region, that Zasavje will get everything I listed earlier. Because that is not the case today and this would actually allow the people of Zasavje to have the same opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thanks again for saying that. As far as this law is concerned, it actually defines these principles, and I can agree with you. However, this is not just the subject of this law. If we are to come to these solutions, we need to look at the whole package of legislation. And more questions will be answered through other laws. However, a key story is, of course, a package of legislation on the establishment of landscapes. I hope we understand each other now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you. We continue the debate. It's Mr. Kokalj's turn. I'll take Mr. Mojet's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u124	President, thank you so much for your word. It seems to me that we are heading for these regions in a way that would be like constructing a new kind of tree where the roots are supposed to grow from the top to the ground. In fact, I think it is perfectly logical that this path would be inappropriately better and that these developmental regions would make it even more inappropriate to have administratively established provinces, as the constitution sets out somewhere. Unfortunately, it was not this political will to settle this matter, and now we are creating a tree with roots from the top. Undoubtedly, Slovenia is highly centralised, with Members of all the parliamentary groups already agreeing on many occasions when various laws are being examined. And that one of the causes of indevelopment, for example, Koroške, White Krajina, Prekmurje and so on, is this very severe centralisation, where there is a pool of accumulated power and on one pile of capital. It is wise that we are now dealing with this law, this is already the fifth version that I see, which has remained in existence since the previous term, and we could probably adopt this law without a bit of hesitation if we decided what the standard classification of territorial units is now, that is, Slovenia one cohesion region and Slovenia 12 development regions. Why can't we accept this, why are we looking for new ways, and what are the mistakes or why am I going to vote for the amendment of the Liberal Democracy? It seems to me that more than once, when local interests arise either for the construction of schools or for the construction of roads or other facilities, that the party’s belongings are no longer helpful and that the Member elected in a particular area has a local interest. At the same time, if the local interest is not in line with the interests of the State, the country becomes a prey of local interests. The following must be said; it is certainly necessary for this law to live in full blood. Firstly, the use of resources that will feed on these development programmes, secondly, the decision of those who will acquire these funds, and thirdly, the quality use of these funds, because if this third does not exist, we can write gold laws, but eventually whoever gives us money, either the European Union, or the country, will eventually die as a good horse. And that's why I think, if we're looking at just the first thing, it's a drawing of resources, that it's good to split up into several cohesion regions, why, I would insult you if I were to explain, and it's also probably good if the model is good to split into more than 12 statistical regions that are now recognised and are essentially empty boxes to collect only statistics. The point is that, in solving this problem, we are bound by the legislation that is in force in the European Union and in line with the standard classification of territorial units, we can be divided into a maximum of two cohesion regions and, most of all, into the 13 development regions that we are talking about today. However, it is possible for me to succeed this would be a large range of government, if we succeed, because no one in Europe has yet succeeded in gaining three cohesion regions, which people have undoubtedly confirmed and to be well divided into these 14 development regions. Look what I see in the heart of the problem and what the problem is. When we go to point two, we will say that this law, as it is, is a tool in our negotiating hands and also a tool in our arbitration hands. I have drawn this from a debate that has been told many times in public. This law should also be one of those so that our negotiators in the European Union would not go into negotiations with empty boxes, but would have legislation behind them and could tell them why that is the exact number of these and these. I think it is wise that if we accepted these 14 regions, we know that this is completely contrary to the standard classification of territorial units covered by the European Union regulation. But this is now a single starting point, so I would be responsible for the entire Parliament. However, if the government goes to negotiate, it will tell us that we have such a law that allows us to propose on the basis of how much this number will be negotiated, then it is certain that on the negotiating grounds the government men are on the worst side, as if we had adopted the law as we propose and improve it with this amendment. It seems to me that this law will probably be passed, but there is no doubt that too much autonomy has been given to the government regarding cohesion and development regions. And to partially anchor it, it would be good to accept this amendment that we have given, because if not, then this law, too, would say that somehow negotiating points to members who will go to the EU leave it completely open. It is clear from the debate that we want as many cohesion and development regions as possible, while the number or what, and this law with which you will take part in the European Union, will not say anything. And because of this, honourable Members, I think it is good for us to support this amendment that we have proposed here. On the other hand, it seems to me, including this link, to the establishment of landscapes that are formed as development regions, that this law should also be looked at through the optics of neighbouring countries surrounding us, as well as through the optics of all countries in the European Union. If we are doing such administrative regions or provinces that will not be recognised anywhere in Europe as regards the number of people, then we are doing ourselves a wolf service. We are doing something that will have inner peace for little Slovenia, while on the outside we will lose everything That is why dreaming about twelve or fourteen provinces is already meaningless, because we cannot let people in the country in a situation when they come from such a province, to the same province, say Austria or to Italy as the Liliputans. [[...]] They must have at least approximately, if not the same number, at least the same number of inhabitants, the same number or the same strength in all of these negotiations. And if we don't take away the wisdom that we have here, and we will have this local interest, then only God can help this country. I think they're gonna pick us up, foreign companies are gonna be here, or we're gonna live here, but we're gonna be the domestic labor force of foreign companies. For this reason, I ask you very much to unite these powers, we are trying together to resolve these things in such a way that this thing will indeed be such that not only a 14- or 15-year-old country will try to put on such a foundation that it will also be able to survive in this area of local self-government. However, if, my fellow Members, we do not have the political will to do so, and we will divide the country into fourteen provinces or countries or whatever you want, then this will apply in principle, 'divines et empera', divide and rule, because such small units themselves will not be able to survive in this cruel world of the market economy. If large companies such as the Road and Kolinska Mercator unite to compete with others, let us also try to take a step and prepare the law to the extent it is. I was just speaking without hair on my tongue, I said what I meant in this House, so please, when we do these things, we try to put aside this customer peripety and try to get to the one model that was best for Slovenia. However, it would be a great shame if anything happened in cohesion regions were to fall out of the acquisition of all the funds in Europe. At that point, I think that everyone sitting in here can collectively step aside and go to a new election.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I'm going to try to get my mind together without hair on my tongue, just like my previous colleague Rudy Mogo. I must say that I quite agree with his thinking and the words he has spoken in this place in the National Assembly. However, when I look and think, this amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy, I am in great doubt, whether it is wise or not to accept, support or reject such an amendment. At this particular moment, given the debates I have heard, I am in a great dilemma. I am also in a dilemma about what two Members, one municipal councillor and one mayor had previously talked about. On the other hand, I think it would be appropriate for the National Assembly to adopt the number of development regions and also form them by law. As my previous colleague also said that he is personally afraid that this is a problem of some local interests and individuals - and we have already had much to say in the National Assembly - I am also afraid that we would not choose so much political power or will so that, according to the needs of the Republic of Slovenia, we could create such regions as we want them to. Therefore, it may seem reasonable, on the one hand, that this responsibility is taken by the government and also its responsibility. On the other hand, I think it is a shame that as a politician, as a Member, I would not co-form such a policy, which is very important for decentralisation. We talked a lot in this place today. I also listened to the discussions of some of the other fellow Members of the previous government, and my client was also in the previous and previous government. But regardless of the position of the party in the government, I have repeatedly pointed out some of the segments that have taken place in this place. I must stress once again the engagement of my colleague Mojet, who comes from a regional centre that is either at the dog or at the bottom of the social and economic crisis and which is very far from central Slovenia and is not comparable to this area, nor with Prekmurje or with Koroška, nor with Bela Krajina. It is true, however, that since 1996, I have been in state-level politics, and I can say that many times those who sought centralisation have encouraged this centralisation from government to government, from month to month, through the reorganisation of the state administration. And it is consistent regional development in accordance with the law that we adopted in 1998, if I am not mistaken, - at the time we also had the Ministry of Economic Relations and Development, I think that Minister Senjur - was well prepared and well driven. But the government did not respect him. The government didn't respect him! The preparation of the budget was not based on the law we prepared at the time, which would actually reduce some incompatible regional views between the two regions. And that policy bears this responsibility, I will explain with some other concrete information how I view these things. Today, we can accept such a choice or a different one. Today, we can legislate anything that happens if state bureaucrats, who are concentrated and centralised in one place, do not follow the legislative procedure, do not follow the legislation in force. I'm talking about state bureaucrats, not the minister, not the secretary of state. That's the problem. And no one will convince me that there is no centralisation here - in the allocation of certain funds from the Structural Funds or any other co-financed by the European Union. The problem is that these state bureaucrats are only available for one, for those most developed - for those closest to state bureaucrats, that is to say, from central Slovenia, or whatever I look at, even on the political line. For those most remote, for those most affected, state bureaucrats are not available, they do not receive information and are still unable to prepare, adapt in time, to properly arrange all the necessary documentation in order to apply for certain tenders which are subsidised or co-financed by European Union funds. However, if this succeeds, my dear colleagues, to prepare all the relevant documentation, and the state bureaucrats past the minister will once again take up the role of the commission, which, in turn, arrives in order to score. And the point is that once again those roles that come from less developed regions are pushed aside, and those that are closer to the state bureaucrats who run this country are put first. Take a look! Last year, the Ministry of Economy of the former government, Krka Zdravištiště, Terme - billion, Moravske Toplice Nature Park - billion, Terme Čatež two billion 800, Sava Pannonske Terme billion 938. I have here an official list of how some money was exchanged. If I go to see a little politically, I respect, I support these companies, but the money that has been earmarked, including Marina Portorož - 608 million, is intended for those who urgently need, with the help of the European Union, a financial injection to adapt to the European markets and to bring them to the surface. Politically speaking, directors are influential people in these companies close to one of the political options, and in this way money has been distributed. Forgive me, a little too much to one place, but little too little to those places that are urgently needed, where unemployment is at the very top, where economic growth is the smallest in the regions or is it the White landscape, whether it is Koroska, whether it is Prekmurje or it is Styria, I do not care about it or Posavij. That's the problem, and the state bureaucrats will do their own work again. Finally, let me explain the technology development park, Ljubljana gets a billion 900, remains for the rest of Slovenia 500 million and something to share this money, now tell me if this distribution is normal, but I know the technology development park in Celje, I know the technology development park in the Pesnica near Maribor, who needs this money more where unemployment is 6 or not at all, or where unemployment is 20%, 18% or 16%, or where economic growth is the least? And again, we're asking the same question, what do state bureaucrats do? In my opinion, state bureaucrats are centralised, focused on one place and have too much decision-making power. And these are serious problems when our entrepreneurs, institutions, institutions, even municipalities, apply to such or other calls, but because of this state bureaucracy and centralisation, however, do not come through and this is painful, my dears, for those who come outside central Slovenia for money in Ljubljana. Today, we can adopt such or other laws, and nothing helps if someone does not strike a desk in state bureaucracy and give them the task of taking into account certain segments in line with EU standards, it is said, those who are very rich, those who have the best development options, those who have the least unemployment, those regions draw money, that is obvious. But one who is poor still needs to be hit after him, whether it's a Maribor region, whether it's a bird, or a suburban region, or a coral. And that's the problem. How can this problem be solved? In a way that we will adopt the law, my dears, I am not so sure. And that's a dilemma for me. Who, and in what way, will share that money. What helps me if I write down that the development region has a formed, pomurski or lower subterranean or upper level, but if someone shares money with me at some invitation, someone will point at me and at the invitation where I will be suitable for those points that they know how to determine, throw money out and they will be able to reach these funds. Or those who have such or other political connections, that is the problem. And I must therefore honestly say that I am very, very skeptical about this and that this centralisation is more present and strengthened from day to day. But I'm going to stand up to that, and I'm going to stand up to that. I'll be honest with you. I have been elected for the third term, I have been sitting here for nine years, I have been working on it for nine years, and I will continue to do so, as long as I have left. And when the Ministry of Economic Relations and Development prepared some foundations to reduce and actually lead to more coherent regional development in Slovenia, they were actually prepared, one of the bureaucrats invented that it was necessary to shut down and merge and sink. That's exactly what's going on. And that's exactly what happened. We have abolished the Ministry of Economic Relations and Development. In my personal opinion, it was necessary at that time, and it was worrying and watching over certain regions and differences, and it was also working with the whole team to reduce these differences. It was a political responsibility to stop it. The mayors, who remember some of the calls back - because I have also heard from a Member there today that there are no water pipelines in Haloza and elsewhere - well know that the Ministry of Economic Relations and Development has been losing sight of those regions that did not actually have pipelines, infrastructure for public good, both water and gas, as well as derivatives, as I do not know what. But it was someone's political move to go and shut down the Ministry. I'll tell you again. And that we have changed the law and that we have reduced these development opportunities and comparabilitys, both between central Slovenia and some others. And this is where egoism appears, which is present in Slovenian politics and is focused centrally. This egoism is present from day to day. And not at the top, where there is political responsibility with ministers, this egoism is in state bureaucracy, my dears. From the Undersecretaries of State down. People decide there and this will have to be solved in one way or another. And today we're talking about whether we want the country or not. Yes, we are talking about one matter, about the provinces, and then when we adopt such legislation, we must also agree on what are the tasks and functions that we will carry out. I don't need strawed landscapes. Not so we can have a boss there, and we can go to receptions. I don't need it, and I don't need a nation that lives in a country or a region. However, if we agree to transfer some of the tasks and obligations from some ministries down to the provinces and in fact in this way ensure decentralisation, then we will find a common word and a point. But in the previous, not the previous, previous government we did not come to this common point because of state bureaucracy and the egoism of some state bureaucrats who are triggering centralisation. Because at the same time that this would happen to you to come to the provinces that would bring the tasks of the country down to the second branch or the middle branch between the local self-government of the provinces, you would lose your meaning, these state bureaucrats and centralists would lose their influence and decision-making, and that is painful for those who today master this centralism, my dears, and that is the truth. After nine years, I learned something about this policy. And here's the story, and here's the side, and here's the shame that we don't find common points, that with this centralism that these state bureaucrats are driving, we end up once and for all. But until there is real political will, we will not experience it, and that is why, in this place, I can honestly say, it hurts the heart several times when I listen, monitor and see whether it is a judicial branch of power, whether it is an executive branch of power, some have appetites after centralisation and even through the legislative branch of power. And then lastly, before I leave this chair, I hope to say in this microphone out loud that I have no choice but to become a servant, only I will do the last thing I can, honestly tell you. And that's how far these things are going to go, and it's going to have to be cut once, whether my status is coalition or opposition, whether I belong to a Human Party or anyone else. People have chosen us to provide them with a normal life, normal working conditions and that we all have equal conditions under the Constitution and that no one will be in such or otherwise privileged position. Today it doesn't matter, my dears, whether you live in Ljubljana and if you are born in Ljubljana or Maribor or in White Krajina or in Murska Sobota, not for education or for future employment, let alone for any opportunity or opportunity. Opportunities and opportunities are given only one, but what remains of us is what we are fighting for day after day and would end with that. And once again, I will point out that I am very skeptical about the amendment, whether to support it or not, to find one or another solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Now he has the word, Mr. Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear government representatives, or members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The word Pomurje was today, I will make no mistake, mentioned with each interlocutor, in one directly, in others, who mentioned the least or less developed regions in Slovenia, indirectly. Of course, the word Pomurje is also mentioned in the amendment proposal and in such a context, which unfortunately I cannot support. In fact, the name Ormož appears within the pomur region, as far as I know the Drava River is almost directly flowing through Ormož, and I cannot imagine how Ormož could then be in the pomur region, and in the proposal of the same amendment we also have sub-regions, upper and lower. Well, for that reason, I cannot support this amendment. Besides, I think it's a very important reason to adopt this law. Otherwise, I wish the National Assembly never needed him. This is due to a markedly uneven development in Slovenia. Just to refresh my memory, Pomurje is here in the last place. The wall reaches about 70% of Slovenia's average. Slovenia is reaching somewhere; 75% of the European Union average is approaching. Well, we're in Pomure somewhere in the middle of Europe's development. Where are the reasons for this? This is the legacy of the former government. A highly inadequate regional development policy, despite the measures taken. I stress, despite the measures taken, that the differences between regions are increasing. Of course, Pomurje is still here in the same place as the last. Turns out the Pomurs are incompetent, that Pomurje doesn't have management. I personally see two reasons that I'm going to give, and they're not related to the personnel. Equal terms. The regions in Slovenia should first ensure equal conditions as regards infrastructure, or the provision of equal, equal and equal treatment to the population in other regions. The ability or development of an individual region can then be compared. The highway is here. When we adopted the highway construction programme, we all stressed how important this is for the development of the region. The wall will be connected in 2008. Until then, some more water will pass through Mura, so that the effects of the highway construction can be expected somewhere in the future. Water supply in Pomure. We started the projects, the realisation is expected after 2008. I don't know how the Pomur farmer should go with that complementary activity, rural tourism? So the fire truck delivers water to him, or does the owner himself deliver water with the canisters? So, I mentioned two conditions, and if it were met in the past, it is likely that Pomurje would not be in this place where it is developed. Of course, the position of Slovenia vis-a-vis the European Union or within the European Union has changed during this time. There are some proper ones, and we were familiar with them when we entered. If you reach a limit of 75% of your development, you fall into some other type of co-financing. Of course, there's nothing wrong with it, but we have to deal with it. Even by making some in Slovenia a little bit more developed, others a little less developed and those who are a little less developed will receive a little more funding. But there's a feeling that this is being taken by those who are a little more developed. We will have to get rid of this if we really want a sincere, even development. Let this development not be undeveloped at the expense of those who have already developed. Let me go back to Slovenia. These measures show that direct regional incentives do indeed share a little fairer, a little more in less developed regions. But if we directly encourage them to add indirect incentives, which are shared by sectoral ministries, then we come up with the information that a colleague mentioned earlier that the Central Slovenian region still gets the most, as far as state resources are concerned. So, this way, we'll never get to even development. And here I add what my colleague Kangler mentioned, a pressing problem in the division of state resources. I'll just give you two concrete examples. The company from Prekmurje, which has never so far applied for any funds; of course, because it was not able to go through this high game, it just invested itself. Investments themselves could be obtained through projects, programmes, certain funds, but this has resulted in liquidity problems. Unfortunately, the answer was that this was no way to help the company. Or another case where business owners maneuver through their calls for tenders, they run acrobatics when they re-register companies and thus recover funds at the expense of those who have not applied for ten years, when they honestly apply for development funds and those criteria listed in the tender are not met. So this is an uneven division. I expect that the institutions and bodies under this law, when implementing this law, will also meet the conditions for European funds to be drawn up, with two or three cohesion regions. Recently, we can see that the European Union is not a concrete foundation that does not give up. As far as Croatia is concerned, they were willing to depart from that sharp border of handovers of Gotovina. But they may also negotiate with Slovenia regarding the definition of cohesion regions. Personally, I wish that there would then be no obvious in Slovenia that someone in Pomurje is getting money that was intended for someone in Western Slovenia. Of course, I wish there wasn't a feeling that we wanted to outrun the others in Pomur. I just want to reach the average development of Slovenia as soon as possible with those of us back there. And if I started for reasons for adopting this law, let me conclude with this: I would be very happy if once in Slovenia we found that such a law is no longer needed, so that the development of Slovenia is even. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Now he has the word, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Ever since I remember reading, reading, and listening to something like that. Even in the previous country, we have called this non-development; today, of course, the language has changed and we are talking about more coherent regional development, an effort for more coherent regional development. The more we took care of more coherent regional development in the previous country, the greater the differences and I fear that something similar is happening now. We've spent tons of ink, we've spent tons of words, there's been hard words, we've changed laws, we've talked about every law, when we change this, but we'll have enough money, the more consistent development will go on, the development will go on some other way, the money will go on forever, everything will be enough. What am I trying to say? The law itself means nothing, the law itself is a dead letter on paper, unless there's anything else besides marriage. The law itself "eventually" can transfer, I don't know, some administrative jobs, well-paid officials who, in order to justify their existence, forgive the term, "fuck" another and invent work, various forms, various statistics that could be obtained anywhere else. It's the only profit from the law itself, so it's got to be something else. Here we talk about how we have to write in the law that we have to have, I don't know, 14 regions of one kind or another, or I don't know what else. If we write this down, then the money will be sufficient and more coherent regional development in Slovenia will be achieved, everything will be resolved. Nothing's gonna be solved. We have established in the past a regional development agency, everything will be resolved once we establish it, there will be some people who will prepare it, money will just fall, which will fall. And what happened, except for the great use of funds for the operation of these RRAs. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , even from Europe, when someone else could use these funds and some political regional administrative bureaucracy, I will not mention those parties, you know which ones you set up, who you have recruited there, we have absolutely nothing else. [[...]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is now almost a saying in the Dravin Valley that says, help yourself, and Unior will help you. It's not a name, but the point of all of this is in this thinking, because marriage itself means nothing, there has to be something else. That is, if we don't do something for ourselves, if we don't organize ourselves, if we don't prepare some programs ourselves, if we don't know or don't, whatever, because we don't know how to run for some programs, for some funds, then there's not going to be anything if we have the best law, but if we have three cohesion regions or two, nothing will work. We have to rely on our own eyes, and of course, we are looking at the fact that legislation is one that allows us to run at all, but I think we have already had some of those laws. I would say that we may have too many hopes in amending this legislation. I agree with her, and I will support her. I support this legislation. However, I would caution against making every effort to make things better. So I made this introduction to remind you how many times we've changed the laws and we said, now it's gonna be better, now it's gonna be money, and it wasn't. That's what they say. There's gonna be something else. And here I always remember the closing speech of the Prime Minister a good month ago in Rogaška Slatina in the glass hall, when he was talking to the economists of this celery area, with the mayors, including the MPs, and with others, there were a lot of people, and he simply said: "Please prepare programmes, because without programmes we cannot run for funds. The money is in Europe, but if we don't have programs, we can't run. The government can't prepare all the programs. Some of them can, and other resources have to come, I don't know, from the economy or from somewhere else. You must prepare programmes for the economy, the government cannot." And that's the point. And one more thing. When we're talking about these 12 or 14 development regions, I think there's a little bit of talk when we're perceived as being in the ruling coalition against 14 development regions or whatever we're going to call it. That's not true. You will probably remember that it was in the SDS that we proposed at the end of the previous term in constitutional changes that it would be 14 because we felt that it was somehow the most acceptable thing for us to possibly get the majority, and this was not going through. I agree, however, with the words of one of the opposition's forerunners, who said: "At that time we must be careful when we establish these regions, that these regions will not be 'liliputans' compared to our neighbours, because the borders are no longer." With Austria and Italy, borders are falling. And if our region talks to, I don't know, "landeshaupman", which has over two million inhabitants, and our national income is higher than Slovenia, then we need to think about it. That's what they say. Not everything in this marriage. We can have a golden marriage, if we don't do our own work and do our own thing and help ourselves so that Unior can help us, then it won't work. As for the three cohesion regions that would bring us, I don't know, 60 billion from Europe, what kind of channel would we make for the money that would come from Europe to Slovenia. It's not like that, gentlemen, it's not like that. We need to have programs and run. We only have the chance to get those funds, but we have to have programmes and run for them. If we don't have programs, we may have at our disposal no idea how many billions, but there'll be nothing. I wouldn't go back. I don't know if Slovenia is pumping or not pumping. After some options, I heard the latest information that we pumped everything last year, secondly, no, but it doesn't matter after all. If we don't have programs, we won't get them. The handover of a respected colleague on my left, Mr Cwickel, who sees the 60 billion more if the three cohesion regions, or the 100 billion, are even more beautiful; the real channels from Brussels must be made to get it, but not so. It's a little swindling, a little demagogy, a little bit not hurting, but what's too much. It just wouldn't get us anything. The fact is, if there is a rule in Europe, I don't know if it's a recommendation, a law, or whatever it is written, 800,000 people, then we probably have to stick to it. Something is true, and no one is saying that in Europe, in the EU Member States, there are very small regions. However, it must be said that the country which entered the region at that time negotiated it. We didn't negotiate it. The negotiations are over. We are now reopening an issue that has been solved so much. Of course, I don't mind having it reopened, thank God if anyone can open it. And as far as I know, the current Minister of Local Self-Government was able to hear in Europe that we could open up a matter to begin negotiations. What will be the final takeover of this, that's something else. But in all areas, I don't know if we're going to be able to reopen the negotiations. If, thank God, Minister, you have my support for these negotiations if you can open up all areas. But I'm afraid we're a little bit unserious then, but what we did before when we negotiated to join the European Union. Listening to us to negotiate is a great success. Yes, it is. And I think that if the whole of Europe is looking at us now, if we can make some big point, that we will do something that no one has done so far, it also means that we can even put the matter on the head of the European Union, and I don't know if they'll be interested in even putting the matter on the table there. But I am in order to try - and always, so that we would not be able to read - I am in favour of trying, I think the Minister has tried and succeeded something, certainly more than before in the negotiations, when we have not yet defined anything. So, I'd say less deception and let's be more realistic. The marriage itself won't bring much, it will bring something. Not all of them, but I also agree that the administrative division of money in the home house, according to the Slovenian budget, is also not the best, because usually what you get is something you can't appreciate. So I said that at the beginning, help yourself, and Unior will help you. So if you're not trying to achieve something yourself, then you can't appreciate the money you get from somewhere else, like help, or even no effect at all. So, of course, I will support what the government has prepared. At the same time, I would say that I really want and hope that the government will succeed in the negotiations. We are self-inflicted that forcing the European Union is probably not going to work, which is not going to help us in the end. Once again, we must also have programmes ourselves, so that more coherent regional development can take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Master Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u132	Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u133	Procedurally. Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. I would ask that you provide the Members and Members with procedurally all the documentation relating to the Government's explanation of why this law requires a procedure. An urgent procedure has been introduced for this law on 23.6.2005 because the Government has argued that without this amendment we cannot be effectively involved in the implementation of the new financial perspective 2007-2013. Let me remind you of Members of the Committee on European Affairs. This document is no longer secret, I think it was somehow negotiated, the offer was somewhat after two and a half billion cohesion funds, the euro, in the period 2007-2013, that is about 750 billion tolars, of which 40% would have been claimed by the government, lost if we hadn't negotiated for at least two regions, and lost 10% -- so we were explained -- of all resources over seven years and then, given that the rate is changing. In particular, given that GDP is also growing, it has been estimated that the funds lost in the case of the two cohesion regions will be less than three cohesion regions by 100 billion tolars. These were the data first presented at closed meetings, then at open meetings and with these documents, the National Assembly, the Government even removed the so-called internal code from those documents, and under the leadership of the President of the National Assembly it was decided that the proposal for a law on the promotion of coherent regional development should be adopted in accordance with an urgent procedure. Then, if you remember, we applied the provision of Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure and said that the municipalities had to comment, but it was, as we were told, great losses and I just said that the decision between [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u135	Mr. Squeakl, this is not an application of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u136	I'm done. I would only ask if the President-in-Office could deliver this documentation, because Mr Petan is obviously not informed that there is indeed a 100 billion difference between two or three regions, because he claims that I am deceiving and I am not deceiving, just reading the documents that the government has provided. So procedurally, if you can decide on this, or if the government provides it, or if it can explain what the difference is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Does the government want a word? No, no, no. Otherwise, we decided on the procedure at the college and it was chosen to act on an urgent procedure. Mr. Petan, in principle, is not a replica of the replica. [[..]] [[ad from the bench.]] Also procedural. [[...]] No, that's why I warned Mr. Squeakle that he had crossed the procedural boundaries. I hope that's enough. We'll proceed with the debate if you'll excuse me. That is, Mr Kokalj has my word on my list, and then I will read who else is next in line to make it easier for you to be guided on time. Once again Mr Janc, Brenčič, Testen and Grill have been reported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. I will focus on the amendment to Article 6. The amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy begins with the following text: until the landscapes are established as development regions and then lists the development regions. The first thing that is very strange about this text is the text of the creation of landscapes. Today, we cannot legalize or use something that is not yet in marriage, that is the first, and we do not know what will happen. From this point of view, this text is unacceptable at the outset. After listing the development regions, it does not do anything other than cosmetically correct the current statistical regions in which it has worked so far, or the now existing law on coherent regional development, in which we have been alerting the municipalities more than seven years ago, that it is inadequate and will not bring about coherent regional development. At that time, however, the positions of the municipalities were not taken into account, which proved to be bad practice. If we also look at the content of the present statistical regions or the proposal covered by this amendment to Article 6, we find that the proposed development regions, which are extremely incomparable among themselves, are both by size and by number of inhabitants and so on. Of course, it is necessary to know that both statistical regions and this proposal are, in fact, a completely political decision that very difficult to justify the objective of more coherent regional development. Given that the law is changing, it is clear that such division of Slovenia has obviously not brought about more coherent regional development, and therefore, in this respect too, this amendment cannot contribute to what this law would have wanted to achieve. That is why I think that the amendment is totally useless, given the practice in recent years. The amendment proposed by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS members leaves the door open. It is said: "Development regions shall be determined on a proposal from the Government on the territorial membership of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia at NUTS level 3, the European Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down by the EU Regulation on the establishment of a common classification of statistical territorial units." At the same time, it leaves the government open and at the same time tries to coordinate the division into development regions with the Regulation of the European Union. Why does it seem important to me that he leaves the government open? Because I think that, in preparing this law, the condition that I personally find extremely important has not been met, namely, that the municipalities should take on a key role in the design of the development regions or the provinces, not only of competence, but also of responsibility. Until that happens, I don't think any solution will work. I did not see the views myself - perhaps they were presented on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development - two representative associations. The views of some congregations that seek to be, above all, the headquarters of future development regions or provinces are not positions that can be objective and that can be taken seriously. I therefore expect the Government to propose, on the basis of this second amendment to Article 6 with the municipalities, such a division of the development regions, which will in fact mean that decentralisation will take place, and where, as I have already said, the municipalities will assume their part of the responsibility. I'm saying they haven't. And the congregations are also to blame for the situation as it is. The representatives of the municipalities went to the ministries in Ljubljana too often, and, I will say, they bought for small money at home, for small projects, and they launched a strategic approach that they now face after so many years, that they need to be regulated in some way. Even if I touch the very concept of "congregious regional development". Although the law sets out objectives that are very general in my opinion. When we talk and use that term, I think we often think about each other. When it is said that, above all, areas that are more remote from Ljubljana are disadvantaged, I must also say as the former mayor of the "promising municipality" that the periphery of Ljubljana is infrastructurally malnourished and during pre-accession assistance, and even at the time of entry into the European Union, in fact, will not be excused for the resources that would necessarily be needed to develop basic infrastructure. There is no drinking water in the vicinity of Ljubljana either. There are virtually no sewage systems in the vicinity of Ljubljana. That's why I think it's important to be very careful when we talk about it and when everyone's kind of rooting for their own cause. I think that the issue is strategically too important for a coherent regional development to have too much political debate. I'm against it. And it will not happen if the congregations are involved and they have to assume their share of responsibility in this business and in preparing a proposal proposed by the government. The development regions themselves, as has already been said, and the provinces themselves will not save anything. A coherent regional development can only be achieved through a serious government-wide strategy. One marriage can help a little. If the government does not lead the policies of all ministries towards coherent regional development, there is no way to resolve this with one law and, as I have already mentioned, if it is not intense, once again, I stress that it has involved the municipalities in this business, then the establishment and the regions and landscapes do not help us solve the problem. I am even afraid that the creation of completely uncomparable development regions or landscapes will give us a problem at another level. With the establishment of congregations, it is clear that many times in the beginning, political commerce in general, has established an extremely incomparable congregation, and today there are great problems because the congregations are so incomparable among themselves. And if this happens to the development regions, the provinces, we'll have one more problem, not one less problem. That is why I think that the amendment proposed by the four parliamentary groups is so open that it allows the government to achieve what, in fact, coherent regional development should also achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Janc's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again, a nice hello to you all. I think this debate that we have today in the National Assembly is very much on the table. That we really come from different backgrounds is a fact, it is normal, because we are not all from Ljubljana and that is the right thing to do. I also think that the government is serious, and it has finally set up this ministry for local self-government and regional development. Today we have a serious, responsible law that will give one of those possible steps to try this beautiful Slovenia, which is a small country, but extremely diverse and, above all, too centralistic, a little decentralisation. That's the first step. This step will certainly not solve all the problems we have in Posavje, White Krajina, Prekmurje and so on. Far from it. That's a fact. That we have the opportunity now and that we still trust this government. I believe that we do not have all the possible projection of this story, which is complicated, is not easy. And yet let it decide on the path that will be optimal, which will bring the greatest possible prosperity of the budget to the state and certainly to all the regions that already are, or that will be. We've all talked a lot about denationalisation today. All parties, all Members from different backgrounds, we are aware that this is a difficult, big problem for Slovenia and that we have taken it seriously in a different way and that we will take a decisive step forward with future provinces, so we are serious. At that time, we will also see the political will of Members of Parliament, whether we really think we want to have the truth. Of course, it will be significantly more difficult to get from country to level two, lower level, provincial. This will not be a simple process, it will be a demanding process and, of course, a long time, because this is when someone, who has, gives it to others, it is of course simply very difficult and complicated. But now we have a ministry, we have a government that wants it, we also have a concept, some tax reform, and some other incentive measures, when at least some less developed areas, regions, at least some improvements in their development and other economic growth, which is literally at the end, in some already crucial borders. In different calls, which are of a different nature, regions from less developed areas tend to be less successful. There are several reasons: one of them is its own resources, which are not. And how do you respond to a call if you don't have your own source? At first, you're doomed to failure. This can be provided by strong regions, I don't know the coast, Ljubljana, no problem. And what was mentioned was a billion five hundred for the technology park in Ljubljana, probably the conditions were met, according to the rules of that tender they met the conditions and got the money. This money can never be received by a less developed region. Not at all. That's it. And I hope that this path, through coordination of regional development, will take one step further so that these anomalies that have occurred in the past will be eliminated. But I believe, as I said before, that only this law of all our problems, our problems, its backlog cannot and will not save. There is a lot of concern in the congregations, in the regions, that on good programmes, well-prepared calls, when we will be able to obtain certain funds there, of course, in those environments that are, of course, absolutely necessary. But I can say the "intermezzo" case I just had in our environment. The company, which saved 100 workers from not agreeing to the employment agency, hired them in its new company, received a programme, vision and so on, at the same time hoping to apply for one tender, which unfortunately failed. If you save 100 workers, textiles in Slovenia and with a good program you are not receiving the help of the same country, then I wonder if we are serious or if we are all having a little fun together. In this case, my story is extremely sad. In short, I hope and trust the government, I will support this 6th article of the amendment, which I think is positive, gives the government an open hand and a way to make the move that will be optimal at that moment. Of course, if there is no success, there will be a new time when we say that the government has sinned or made a mistake. I believe that it will not be and that it will be a good and wise decision for the benefit of all Slovenia, all citizens and all regions that are still statistical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that the Ministry of Local Self-Government has prepared a substantive proposal for the law, especially because Dr. Žagar is not complaining and not a public man looking for all the hardships and hardships in the previous government, but has tried to create a ministry policy as it is done, with amendments and additions and other statutory laws and regulations, and I am glad that this is the case. I hope that the Prime Minister will have at least as much support as he has so far, or more. I certainly don't accept these constant accusations and the search for reasons for all "oh" and "yes" and I still don't know what's in the previous government. We already have a good time, we create our own policy, and it is not true that we are looking for all the troubles in such a bad part of the previous government. Let's look at the state budget in the structural cut over the last four years and see how much money went to Prekmurje. Let us be clear, only by means of a law under which I have been very genuinely involved in intervention aid to companies in current difficulties, have the three billion available funds gone directly to Muri, two billion 700 million. [[...]] And I support that. It's the right thing to do. But don't say nothing went into Prekmurje and I don't know where. I know that if we look at it in a comparative way, a number of these statistical regions are lagging behind for central Slovenia, but if we just exclude the capital of Ljubljana, we will see where we are. Let's ask ourselves how many square meters of asphalt are still missing on the state roads in Prekmurje. There's no square meter network of state roads that's not asphalt. We have, not misinterpret me, I want to have it even wider, even more - we have in the central region of an area that even state roads do not have to the jurisdiction of the country, but drive across Croatian territory, let alone have macadamia. In the central region we have a whole range of state roads, which are terrible bad macadam and we do not count on improvement for a long time. I'm just saying, let's be a little more objective. The former government has also acted for the best of purposes, at least some of us have tried for the good of the countries of Slovenia, in accordance with the opportunity we have as such and nothing else will be able to do by this, my current government, so it is high time to focus on this mission that we as a government have to work on how to improve the state of the country's harmonious development. So I hope that this government will slowly start, and also the government coalition MPs, to think a little more soberly, and I hope that the economic approach of this government will also change. If I think about the country as the majority owner of one company, which is a large company, which I have been helping him to get out for a few years, then I am concerned about the operation of this government, in this sense the specific finance of the Ministry of leather industry of Vrhnika. So all I want is for the law that is ready now to be implemented more operationally in practice and to be able to bring this practice to life as soon as possible. As far as the amendment to Article 6 is concerned, this is the case. Of course, the amendment is sounding well, but it is difficult to spill overnight, even the previous government did not propose in the same law of 14 regions, because it was virtually impossible and be correct, it was possible to maximum 13. The position there was with 14 regions that he no longer recognises today because he knows that he is in a different situation and that cannot be achieved. And then, in order to create the Shaleska region and Lower Podravska, we continued to delete the Notranjska Kraška region, then, of course, we resisted with one mind, the matter changed and the 14 regions remained with the assumption that we would not adopt this law at all in the previous term, if we are honest. Therefore, the situation is this, if we have already joined in to do so, then the existing regions should also be restructured internally. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u143	Time's up, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u144	Logatec would also prefer to step out of the central region, having a significantly better position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I have two other discussers on my list, Mr Testen and Mr Grill. First of all, I invite you to the word of Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! First, I'd like to touch some of the things that have been said. One of the Members said that it would be best for Slovenia to be one region. He then listed below which development regions would be damaged - he predicted that there would be two development regions in Slovenia, and he listed Western Slovenian regions that would be damaged by EU funds. He probably forgot if we were to remain in one development region, he should list the other eight or ten, and all would lose development funds. So this option is absolutely out of the question. The other thing that got me in the way of the debate. One of the Members, I think Mr Potsch, said because we cannot decide for ourselves whether or not the government should decide. My understanding of this law is by giving the government a mandate to negotiate more easily. I expect the government to negotiate for 3 cohesion regions and 14 regional development regions. Of course, at the same time, if it does not, it will also have the opportunity to agree on 2 cohesion regions. That's how I understand. However, I do not understand this mandate of the National Assembly in the sense that we are unable to decide how many regions we want and how much not. There has been a lot of talk from some, including coalition Members, Western developed regions, eastern underdeveloped regions, whether there is some resentment or resentment because the eastern regions are supposed to receive funds from the EU and the Western regions are not. Look, I don't understand these things. I understand this by getting the East in any case, but if we employ three cohesion regions, then the Western, I think, development regions in the Western cohesion region will also get their share. So I don't think anyone's giving anybody anything, it's just a matter of government and negotiation, how much we're going to get together. Well, a few comments were also made that the government has earmarked for regional programmes in the past and is also now earmarking little funds. I must say, if we remember the last months of the operation of the new government, that it is right in the field of municipalities, too, the regions have been much made, and also a lot of resources have been channelled through the mains and through other programmes to the municipalities. But I would also like to say this, I think it is important that the government is more closely monitoring the implementation of the law, because in fact in the past it has happened that development funds have often been received by those they did not need, or have already been developed, and those that would urgently need them have not come to them, and many times unfortunately they have not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much. And Mr. Grill, for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u148	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you so much for saying that. I also support this law and the amendment to Article 6, because I believe it is good and makes it possible, as Minister Žagar has already mentioned, to adopt other legislation that will contribute to better and more coherent regional development. I also associate myself with the opinion of colleagues who have debated before me that the law itself cannot contribute to a particular region or to the area of greater development, if the community itself - in particular I have here in mind the local community - does not contribute to its share or its efforts to move this matter from a dead point. Why do I think that? I come from south-eastern Slovenia, which we are all of a kind of middle-developed in Slovenia, but in this part of Slovenia we have a lot of different developmentalities. Central Dolenjska itself belongs to the most developed parts of Slovenia, but this part is developed primarily, I can say, because of three, four very successful companies. However, we had a number of companies here in the past, which were a parade horse of Slovenia, which should have failed or failed long ago. Here I have in mind Pioneer, Novotext, also Swan faces many problems, the textile industry in Slovenia certainly has no perspective. In addition to central Dolenjska, we have a number of areas in this part of Slovenia that are facing major problems in their development. I've got the white landscape back in my mind here. Here we have a dry landscape where virtually every day we see companies fail. Where are the reasons for this? It is probably possible to look for reasons in globalisation, something also in transition itself, but I am sure that the reasons must also be sought in management structures that did not want or wanted to know that the companies they run no longer have a perspective. It means that for several years these companies have been granted numerous state subsidies and that only social peace has been preserved, but there has been no interest here, the objective of restructuring the economy or those undertakings condemned in advance, certainly to fail. So today in White Krajina, we have practically a few companies that have practically had to shut down now, some of them showing up, not only in White Krajina, as previously mentioned by colleague Janc, but also in his environment there are several textile companies that are failing. As I mentioned in the introduction, I firmly believe that this legislation, which we will adopt today, or in these days, will provide some framework. I believe that this legislation, which will be adopted, will, in particular, make it easier to run for various calls for proposals so that we can obtain those funds on the basis of these. Here, I would just like to point out in the end when Krka was mentioned, for example, and perhaps a larger company, which received quite a lot of subsidies, also from the European Union. Why was it received? Because they had a successful programme or they were able to run for office and, above all, to provide the funds they needed here. I believe that also those regions that are actually undernourished, which need to be helped, if they have a good programme, then the country or the resources of the European Union will allow them to develop together then those projects will also be implemented, which is a prerequisite for the same region to develop more rapidly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you, too. Dr. Slavinec also applied to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to point out very quickly just one statistical fact, three years ago, from about 80 billion total funds of indirect and direct incentives in Pomurje as one of the 12 statistical regions, only one 20 came, I stress that if they were all the same, we would have gotten twelve, we were unfortunately only twenty. In this way, statistics unfortunately show that Pomurje did not get more than others. On the contrary, less! And I also don't think it's fitting to compare investment in Mura without recalling at least ten years ago Litostroj, Tama and all the other companies where very, very large funds were invested. The Pomura mentality is such that they do not wait and groan but step together and try to solve their own problems as much as possible. As long as the region is formed, this can happen at so much broader levels; that is, for wider regional problems. And that is why I very, very much support regional reconciliation. Finally, I merely point out that the development of the region and of an area cannot be measured by the development of infrastructure, but by the overall development of both economic and social, as well as general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Would anyone like to discuss the two amendments tabled under Article 6? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Mr. Squeakle, the debate? Mr. Squeakl, but in accordance with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u152	Procedurally. I would like to take the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, before we pass on the opposite vote in this article, both to clarify the views of individual Members and to decide, a 30-minute break for the consultation of the Group of Members. This is an important amendment and because you have, of course, concluded the debate before, of course, explaining how we intend to vote, we want a 30-minute break, in accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u153	73. On the basis of the request of the Deputy Head of the Group, I hereby adjourn the meeting by 30 minutes until 15.35, as we proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u154	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We continue the meeting, which was interrupted by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I'm asking the representative of the Mags. Squeaky, does he want a word? The word is yours, mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u155	Allow me to explain the consultation of the Liberal Democracy Club of the Member States. Of course, as we continue to explain the votes of individual parliamentary groups and individual Members in accordance with the business provisions, we would like to tell the Slovenian public once again how important this vote is in this article, whether in Slovenia we will provide conditions for the coherent development of Slovenian municipalities organised in 14 development regions, or whether it will simply be a law that is not a law to promote coherent regional development, but a law on how the government should negotiate with Brussels. We also hope that the government, although it has not yet done so, will, in the course of today's debate, perhaps in the debate on Article 7, whether or not it will negotiate and whether it will tie its agreement to the next financial perspective; the consensus on which Slovenia is one of the 25 with veto rights, on the exception that should be achieved in the negotiations on cohesion regions. Last but not least, we would like to tell the Slovenian public - and we will further explain if it is necessary - that the vote for this amendment, proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, will be entirely consistent with what the new government does when visiting the Slovenian regions, explaining that the creation of Savinja-Shaleška as well as some other regions will take place. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Evasion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if we are to solve this with the provinces, is simply a diversion that is not sufficiently explained for us because Slovenia and Slovenians do not distinguish between cohesion regions, between regions and the provinces, but they know in particular that we want to combine communities as provided by law if we create 14 development regions, which is the best way to benefit from what Europe has offered us, and this is a good way to draw European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We have concluded the debate earlier, and we are now deciding on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 6. However, there are two other institutions available, explanations of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group and explanations of vote on behalf of the delegation. Who would like to explain the vote first on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you very much. No matter where the group is, at least one member of the six is here; they will come, don't worry. Dear colleagues! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, I repeat what I have said. On behalf of the parliamentary group, we cannot support the first one when talking about the first amendment, or even allow me to explain the vote also for the second amendment - I ask - is it separate?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u158	The explanation should only be for this amendment, because we will separately vote on another.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u159	No, we won't! We will not support it in the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose it, we will abstain. Let me tell you again why. Because Articles 6 and 7 are very closely linked, but the original meaning, believe it and remember, is Article 7. If this were to be arranged, we wouldn't even be discussing this much time today and fixing it. So, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, until we know who is drinking and who is paying - we cannot support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to do it on behalf of the Group of Members? Yes, Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. We will, of course, support the amendment at the LDS. As we have pointed out many times, there are no obstacles already in this law or in these amendments to the law on coherent regional development to define the establishment of the landscapes, including the development regions already in the law proposed by the previous government and which are already in some way stable or adopted in the Slovenian public. We believe that, at the level of so-called NUTS 3, that is to say, the development regions will not be able to establish administrative administrative regions that would not have a development function either. In short, we believe that there can be no conflict or difference between those regions that will receive the status of the development regions and the division that will take place on the basis of administrative administrative matters. We also believe that in the development regions, the possibility for the Government or the Republic of Slovenia to reach an exception in the negotiations is significantly greater or greater than in the NUTS 2 regions or cohesion regions. For the regulation that speaks about this explicitly dictates and gives exceptions in Article 3 also. As has already been pointed out, they allow individual units to deviate from these thresholds due to specific geographical, socio-economic, cultural and or environmental conditions. Such an exception is also favoured by the European Parliament, and such confirmations have also been obtained at the time of the Commissioner's visit to Slovenia, so that we believe that there would be no obstacle if we had already confirmed in the amendments to the law on coherent regional development the proposal that our parliamentary group has set up. On the contrary! I estimate that this would be an additional argument, a positive argument in the negotiations that will take place, and in this way we also express the pessimism of what Slovenia really wants or what the ambition of the Slovenian government will really be on this issue. Because if this were confirmed today, these ambitions would certainly be confirmed. In this way, we have doubts that, in fact, the intentions may not be entirely focused on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? In your own name? Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u163	On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We won't support the amendment. Of course, we reject the arguments we have heard to accept this amendment as unfounded. The hypothetical question is, what if there is a will for 16 regions. With a detailed description of 14 for each congregation where it belongs, even with mistakes, will we make it impossible for humans to do so, for example, by what region more? If we do not accept this amendment, it is up to the government to negotiate perhaps for several regions as well; the results of the calculations and the chances of success in the financial perspective will be increased with a larger number of regions. So let's let the government decide to negotiate on its own. Everything that is legal in the European Union, i.e. over two regions and over 12 development regions, will be the success of this government. All this will be the success of this government. But we are aware that you are going with the terrible burden of incompetence that you inherited, and whatever you succeed, the distinguished minister, you and the team, will be a success for Slovenia, much better for Slovenia than it is. We do know, however, that all hopes need to be limited to some real frameworks; unfortunately, there is a lot of confusion and the situation is not jealous. Once again, we will not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Since there are no more applications, we are voting. I'm calling off the vote. Please, we're voting! What do you want, mag. Squeak?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u165	President, Mr Rupar spoke on behalf of the Group of Members, and we expected you to ask the Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u166	Yes, but I've already asked twice who wants it on behalf of the Group of Members and who wants it on their own. Then raise your hand! It is impossible to monitor all 90 Members at the same time. Mag. Squeak, on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u167	In his own name, because it was already on behalf of the Group of Members. I will support the first amendment to Article 6. I will support it because it is consistent with what the law on promoting coherent regional development actually says. Talks about the definition of the development region and we simply define these development regions with the amendment in Article 6. They are clearly defined until the landscapes are established if agreed in the context of constitutional and other discussions. We believe that the developed development regions mainly reflect a debate that took place in Slovenia for a number of years and was ultimately led during the debate in connection with this law, which resulted in the use of the relevant Rule of Procedure. The formation of 14 development regions, one more than what the European Union Regulation directly provides, will also be the first test stone, if, of course, this would be adopted in the national assembly, in which the government could verify the seriousness of its negotiating purposes. It is probably easier to get a 14th development region instead of 13 more, and if you refuse to do so today, then this will prove, on the one hand, that the Prime Minister does not speak the truth when he walks in Slovenia or that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not prepared to go within the framework of the legislation that the European Union allows, and on the basis of the law that it would adopt today, into serious negotiations for the creation of development regions. That is why I will support the amendment and look forward to the outcome of the vote, especially because I am interested in how Members and Members of the individual circuits should put into nothing the developmental intent of their own communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you very much. And once again, I ask you, Mr Squeakl, to raise your hand in time next time so that we can see you. It's Mrs. Zalokar Orazem's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u169	I'd like to explain my voice in my own name, and I'd like to draw attention to that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u170	Please, he has the right in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u171	In doing so, I would like to draw attention to what we have learned. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u172	Please. We can look at the magnetogram.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u173	I wish if my time came back, I couldn't even say a sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u174	Okay. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u175	I would like to draw attention, on my behalf, to the fact that, at the time of the adoption of Article 6, such as it will remain without amendments, Parliament leaves the development of the development regions to the government in its entirety and without any possibility of impact. I think it's a long way from what your colleagues in the coalition promised in pre-election time. You promised to take the opinion of people and take into account the opinion of the local environment in the design of the development regions. This is not the case today, and not only will this not be taken into account, nor will Parliament's opinion be heard, but the development regions will be fully shaped by the regulation, in view of what the government itself has created. I think that this is a departure from what has been heard for many years, which is why the previous coalition could not accept change and shape the landscape, because that was your argument at the time, and today we will leave the whole possibility exclusively to the government. I think that this is bad for Parliament itself, which is losing meaning also with your cooperation, and I think that this is a "unique" in Slovenia's history, but probably somewhere else, that it will actually be as important a matter as the creation of development regions that mean for the future of Slovenia the foundation of future regions as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u176	15 seconds with the exception, because it's real. You have a blocked microphone. I'm sorry. Let me say it again and please don't hang up. I'm asking you to listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I'm only gonna take 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u178	Sorry, you can't. You'll be able to speak at the second amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u179	I thank my colleagues for their great measure of democracy, because they used to take my word on account of what, I didn't break anything, I wanted to explain in my own name. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u180	I'll tell you what happened before, so there won't be any dilemma. Mr. Squeakl called twice because he spoke for the first time about the reason for the suspension of the sitting, for the second time on his behalf. Mrs Zalokar Orazem has spoken twice, for the first time on behalf of the Group of Members, for the second time in its own time, meaning that it was in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to you, Mrs Zalokar Orazem, for this time you have lost, but unfortunately there is no other possibility of turning off the automatic microphone. I invite you to explain your voice, Mr Barovic. He's quitting. Dr. Laharnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Dear Members. I will, of course, support this amendment. I'm sure you'll be SDS Members too, why. When Prime Minister Janez Janša was in the Sava region, he promised that this would be a development region. That is why I support and, of course, explain my voice, because this was promised, one third of the energy comes from the Shaleska Valley, the biggest Slovenian net exporter comes from the Shaleska Valley when the government was in the Savinijsko-Šala region, made a clear promise. It is not right that when he comes back to this side of Troy, they simply forget this promise, ignore it. I think it's right and hygienic to support this amendment, and I will support it myself. In some ways it will also be possible to see who has a fig in his pocket, who is the one who walks in Slovenia, drives in Slovenia and speaks one when he comes back to the National Assembly or back to Ljubljana, and gives his Members and Members a different instruction. To visit the government in Slovenia, it is obvious that only exhausts and empty promises remained. With this amendment, we do nothing but keep what the government has promised, and we know what has happened in the Valley of Shale. And let us establish the Savini-Shale region as a development region, or be so honest, and tell people that you have deceived them. But it is not right to talk about Velenje one thing, but when you come to Ljubljana, you are doing something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Milan Friday. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Mr. Milan Friday only has a word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u183	Mr. Pojbich has it, as always. May I speak, President?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u184	Please. And other listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u185	So, that's how I pictured Parliament, when I was running for office, full of controversy, full of debate, so full of tone, giving the basis for decision-making, and not the kind that was just a few moments ago, empty because you've already created your own political opinion because you've got such a command. So, on all the weights we've been trying to prove to you that we've proposed a good amendment, and some of you who know the local environment you come from, you know it's a good amendment. And forget that the fact that you are, of course, slaves of a policy, therefore accept this debate as a basis for your decision. Just as we have forgotten that this law is actually immature to deal with if 81 of the articles of the law, of which 60 are corrected, means that we have looked through, I would say, through our fingers, and we are going to debate. Therefore, you too try to overlook this naked and cruel decision that you may have had to make. The law or amendments are such that they actually give life to an area that could not be agreed between themselves, who would carry out the tasks of the development regions and, in the case of the Lower Podravje, the arguments that we who live and work there are therefore best known. In the case of SASA, there are people who have told you what the reasons and circumstances were for going to establish the Fourteenth Development Region. So my vote, of course, goes to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u186	Thank you very much. And Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. Besides, I've already told you once before, and since there are more of you now, I'm gonna do it again. So, of course, I strongly oppose this amendment and I will vote against it. If I understand correctly, I should only support him because you wrote this region here, but whoever gave Ormož to Pomure doesn't know the geography of the Republic of Slovenia, and I would expect your fellow Member Trofenik to step out of the LDS Club. The weapon never belonged to Pomure, let me tell you. The weapon is 45 kilometers away from Murska Sobota. That's more than Maribor. It's a lot closer to Ptuj, of course. And if you've already written Lower Podravje, then it would be logical to give the Ormož to the Lower Podravje. The distance between Ormoz and Ptava is 22 kilometers. The Ormož is connected in all respects to Maribor and Ptivo. We've got Bird and I to tell you some historical truths and the facts, because you obviously don't know that and you're trying to make amendments like that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u188	Explain your voice, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u189	State [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u190	The explanation of voice is the topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u191	I'm explaining why I'm going to vote against this amendment because it's inappropriate and I would [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u192	I'm asking you to listen!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u193	Citizens and citizens at the referendum, according to my assessment, rejected something like this by 99%. [[...]] Only those who live in the Ormož Congregation would vote in favour. Otherwise, the LDS saints would probably support it, and the others would not support it in the Armenian congregation. Everything we have and everything we have binds us to Ptuj and through Ptuj to Maribor, with Murska Sobota, and I think we have only one military defence command together in Murska Sobota and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Let not the explanation of vote cause controversy, for, as you know, we all have only one right to explain our voice. This is a controversy, and this is a debate. Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will vote for the amendment myself for two main reasons. The first reason is because I am actually afraid that, instead of more acceptable, in the final sanctions, the 14 development regions can get 16, or even 23, or even more. To at least destroy the idea of regionalism from the beginning, anyone who knows little about regionalist theories and regional development is already clear. In order to avoid the government setting out by regulation 16 or 23 of the regions, it is good for us to define these 14 development regions that are still acceptable today. Secondly, this law lays down in its articles a series of mechanisms, institutions, procedures and other instruments to promote regional development. Where? In regions that don't exist. In regions that will yet have to be established. We're doing all of this to launch human resources, money, organizational potentials. Where? Something that doesn't exist. Thank you so much for these instruments. Thank you so much for such a marriage. This is not how we agreed, and regional development cannot be accelerated. So if you want to have a law that will be whole, then at least the development regions should be adopted if for tactical reasons we do not adopt cohesion regions, which is, of course, right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u196	Your Honors are here! We proceed with the explanation of vote. Member Trofenik is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. Without any fear, I will vote against this amendment. It's your own belief. I think I know at least a little bit about this issue, and it's also a commitment to my constituents. No one has to worry or have a patron over my decisions. I think the times of democratic centralism are over, and those who fear me should fear first for their own personality and for their own credibility. I will vote against, in particular against the next amendment, because the five-hour debate totally disappointed me because there was no substantive debate. Nothing or very little. There were prestigious talks, debates, and all of this went beyond the instruments to promote development or reduce the differences between different areas in the Republic of Slovenia. And I'm afraid it won't be any better than it was in 1998 or 1999. I will vote, once again, against, on my own decision and on my own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you. A colleague of Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u199	According to some arguments, I was guilty that this law was not adopted in the previous term - according to Mr Sok and some others in that constitution. I was convinced that everything needed to be done to ensure that the law was harmonised in order to cover all that the congregations needed, what individual environments needed, and what was ultimately good for the country. I therefore believed that some of the blockades that had been put in place at that time would be lifted by the establishment of a new authority. It happened that in the spring it was necessary to adopt a law. I happened to be in a college where I objected, and yet you've placed this law in an extraordinary July session, on a holiday. And then two days later, you came, and you said, "No, we don't need him." And now it has proved that this extra time has not been enough to harmonize all that is needed in this law. I am not sure that the government will do better once it has determined the development regions itself. I am sure that this will be easier because, as has been done today, at least 20 times will be ensured in all discussions by the coalition Members and Members that this is agreed upon in the coalition. Maybe that's the only reason that so many words were needed here today and give the impression that we are doing something good for the regions, for consistent regional development, etc. I will support the amendment, because I think it is a step forward to determine where it will be based on an area that will be judged in some regions that will have a common basis for further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u200	Thank you. Since no one wants to explain their vote again, we are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to Article 6. We're voting. There are 73 Members present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Are we moving on to the Procedural Proposal? [[...]] Comrade Barovich, nice and easy, please. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 6. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Barovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As we said in the debate, I hope that we will all be brief, clear and concise. We will not support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party, absolutely not. Because we are still stressing that it is important to first agree on Article 7 governing the regionalisation of the country, the Republic of Slovenia in Europe, and then we are talking about how we will divide Slovenia into NUTS level 3, if you want this term because you are all using it. So, once again, think about it! We're running ahead, we're going from the bottom up, instead of going from top to bottom. You're waving or you're not waving. Judge, please, because this decision, if adopted by law, means a great, great responsibility for the future, whatever happens at the European level.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7. Who wants a word? My friend Barovic, on behalf of the Group of Members? It's a debate. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you. We have tabled an amendment to the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. With him we wanted to report only one thing: let us not give the government the right by regulation to determine how [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u204	Comrade Barovic, I sincerely apologize, but the technical services have informed me that the time of the Group has passed. [[Back-up advertising.]] Please turn off the microphone so the technical services can check the timing. You no longer have time, so you can make your point in explanation of vote. Who wants to discuss Article 7 in the debate? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Who wants to explain their voice? My friend Barovic, on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u205	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members, I propose to my colleagues and colleagues to adopt the amendment we have proposed. By doing so, we will assume our own responsibility. This legislative branch of government should decide what regional arrangements will be at European level, at NUTS level 2, in this country. This is an important decision for the development of Slovenia, its economy, its political, territorial and also on the judicial side of the government for further development. It would be good if we were one region to help each other, if we were Slovenians united. Whether it's on the left or on the right, the one who needs help should get it. Let's get her to Central and get her to one. And let's not let the government decide on its own, depending on how they talk at a work lunch or dinner, what would be the appropriate arrangements in the European Union for Slovenia. That's a warning. And be smart, make up your mind and support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u206	Thank you. Voice explanation, Comrade Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u207	It's a hall of my word. Regardless of all, I am confident that the Slovenian National Party has had almost 13 minutes of opportunity in the course of the debate, but as long as the technical services have taken this debate away from us, we will take the time to explain our vote. Allow me, colleagues and colleagues, to read you the amendment in order to make it easier for you to understand those who have not read the amendment: "The cohesion regions are determined by the law on territorial membership of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia at NUTS level 2. The European Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure laid down by the EU Regulation establishing a common classification of statistical territorial units." If I say this in the people's language, we are now talking about how many NUTS 2 regions Slovenia will have or will have the option to choose whether the legislative branch of government will determine it or leave it all to the government. And if I speak even more in the human language, we are talking about money, we are talking about the money that Slovenia would receive in the context of regionalisation. There's something about that money. We know that, last time in Slovenia, there are 5.5 million euros in Maribor in the railway agency for the development of the second track, which this agency cannot use because today's government has not prepared the basis for the use of this money, and we all know that in two months this money will go to zero. This is how Slovenia uses money from European funds. If you'll allow me to continue. In the Slovenian National Party, we are still committed to ensuring that Slovenia will be one region, saying that we will ensure a balanced regional development for people on the whole of Slovenia, whether they live in Primorske or in Styria or Prekmurje. We've heard so many rumors that it's too late for that. That's not true! We just heard from the Minister today that it's not too late for that. And for once in this House we could work or act in an infamous way: one man, one nation, money.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u208	Thank you. Peace in the hall, please. In doing so, I have a duty to warn you Members in particular - peace in the Chamber, please! Mr. Gulic, allow me to lead the session. In doing so, I am obliged to remind you that the professional services have warned me that there has been a misinterpretation regarding the time of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, so I ask Members of the Slovenian National Party, if they wish to discuss it, they have 13 minutes left. Would you like to discuss it? Then I will consider your debate, Comrade Barovic, as a time for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much for your review. I'm not gonna use all 13 minutes, and I'm not gonna take advantage of it. But I just want to clarify what I've already said. See, once again, today we heard in the first part of the debate that we can have one region in Slovenia at level NUTS 2, even today we have heard this, let's have one. Why? As a member of the Slovenian National Party, I do not want to talk when the government decides how many regions we will have at European level, so that if we have two regions, I may be forced to hang out even with Austrians, Hungarians or Italians. I have nothing against them, but as a region, I will not be an integral part, but one part of Slovenia will be Italy. That's possible! Don't tell me it isn't! It is possible that we will have one part of the region in Austria and one part - Europe will recognise as one half of Austria and half of Slovenia. That's possible. We talked about this five years ago. I do not want to, we are Slovenians and we have the right to live in one region that does what is right. If it does not reach 75%, Europe has the right to help this country. And within this country, we will help all the Slovenians who have developed unevenly, that is, those who lack these resources. Only with the law, gentlemen and gentlemen, will we settle this, with the government's regulation, surely not. The government will change -- maybe, I don't know, in three years, the government will leave, but the Slovenian people will suffer because of what we will conclude today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u210	Thank you. Member Zagorac has been declared responsible for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. There is no more explanation for the vote, but the use of time for the Slovenian National Party. As I have already said, in the pronunciations of "voice" I would like to say, as I said, 5.5 million euro is lying in an account that our government does not know, does not want to use. And such governments today should trust the decision on how many regions, European regions, Slovenia should have in the future! Well, speaking of regions, it's not the last time we have to tell people that we're talking about money. In the human language, today, here we are talking only and once again about money, about how much money Slovenia will get from Europe if it creates the right number of regions in its country. And in a government that can't use 5.5 million euros to develop a second track, because it can't make regulations, projects to use this money, it's supposed to trust me with a regulation, with this law that the government will be able to decide how many regions we'll have, it seems to me a short delay and, well, I'll say, underestimation of this state council. This amendment of the Slovenian National Party only leads us to retain the dignity and legitimacy of the National Assembly so that, as the legislative branch of power, it can shape the number of regions in the Republic of Slovenia, given that we have all been elected from the people and the people have entrusted us with their mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u212	Thank you. And we continue to explain our voices. Comrade Squeakle, are you logged in? Discuss. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u213	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group on the vote to the amendment to Article 7. In the Liberal Democracy Group, in accordance with the agreement of the parliamentary parties, where it was agreed that the government withdraws its proposal on two cohesion regions and that the government will negotiate with the European Union on cohesion regions, and in doing so respects all the guidelines of the national assembly, we cannot support this amendment. We cannot support it because we would be in breach of an agreement that was at a meeting of parliamentary parties where, in fact, the amendment says that it is necessary to return to the National Assembly by law. We expect, however, from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that, in all stages of negotiations with the European Union, especially in the negotiation of the next financial perspective, in this year, and especially in 2006, unless an agreement is reached this year, it will come under the law on cooperation between the Government and the State Assembly in this Parliament and respect what this Parliament will say. The clear direction of this House is that the government can negotiate for one region this year, and this is also agreed, next year three cohesion regions need to be reached according to the text of the declaration. I think it is good that this declaration has been adopted. I think it is good that the law no longer compels the government to say that we will have two cohesion regions in Slovenia and if the Slovenian language applies, of course, the 7th article speaks about the multitude of cohesion regions - it is said that three cohesion regions - then we believe that this government of the Republic of Slovenia will negotiate the best solution for Slovenia, and these are three cohesion regions. For these reasons, because we do not wish to violate the agreement of the presidents of the parliamentary parties, and because we still believe that the government will fulfil these intentions, even though it has acted contrary to commitments in the development regions, we cannot support the amendment of colleagues from the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u214	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Member of the Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. I will certainly support the amendment we have tabled in the Slovenian National Party, because it clearly follows what was last written in the law adopted in the previous term by the National Assembly in the law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly in matters of the European Union. Actually, I'm surprised by the explanation of my colleague's practice before me. I exposed him, even though I shouldn't have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u216	Mrs Žgajner, there is no controversy in the explanation of vote with the other Members. I sincerely hope that you will continue to do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u217	Thank you very much for your explanation. I know, I am aware of this, but I am interested in why, suddenly, the opposition in the previous term of office, the opposition in power, the overlays and opposes this amendment, which, last but not least, speaks of the need for the Government to take into account the opinion of the legislative branch of power when defining the NUTS 2-level regions. I fear that today's LDS puts responsibility on the government, so that, of course, the government will also be responsible for past sins. It may once again be an appeal to all Members of Parliament and Members of this National Assembly to support this amendment, which, last but not least, represents a greater role for the legislative branch of power in matters of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u218	Thank you. Because I don't see any more reported colleagues of Zagorac, explanations of vote? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. I'll be alone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u220	Comrade Zagorac, I've been warned that you've already taken advantage of your ability to explain your voice. And I'm asking you if you've changed your mind about voting, in which case I'll give you a chance, otherwise I won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u221	No, I haven't changed my mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u222	I estimate that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u223	I still support the amendment. But I don't know when I took the time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u224	Then please turn off the microphone. Since I no longer see the desire to explain our voices, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 56. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 56]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 12. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment to this Article. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 7. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] There are 65 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 5. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. We have thus concluded by voting on the amendments tabled in the second reading. This concludes my second treatment. I am moving on to the third reading of the bill I find that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 6, 23, 27 and 30 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. Explanation of the vote by Comrade Barovic on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u225	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we will oppose the law. In our opinion, this law is something fast, something crazy, something vague, and I stress, all the consequences of this law, which you will vote on today, will be borne by you, all those who have done so. All of you. Because once there is confusion at the European and Slovenian levels, the responsibility will be borne by that parliamentary group or those parliamentary groups that will now press "yes". And once again, we'll talk about it again. We believe that this law is also inconsistent with the law on cooperation between the government and the national assembly, as far as the European Union is concerned. It's inconsistent with our beliefs, and we'll do everything we can to prove it. However, if we adopt laws just to adopt them, and that no one will then legally tell me that now the law is in conflict, then some law later adopted "lex specialis" - this can be slowly erased by everyone under your nose. I submit that this law is inconsistent with the law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly, as far as matters of the European Union are concerned, and the Slovenian National Party will try to prove this to the best of the Slovenian people. We'll go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u226	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mrs. Orzam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We will not support amendments to the coherent regional development law in the LDS. We believe that, because amendments have not been adopted, which would have properly addressed the issue of the development regions in particular, and we stress that the openness of the issue of cohesion regions has not been opposed, we have supported it. We believe, however, that the government has fully played out the agreement that has been reached between representatives and the leaders of the parliamentary groups at that point in terms of the development regions. Representatives of political parties did not give the government a mandate at this point to fully shape future development regions alone and by regulation on the issue of the development regions. This was an eclectic breach of this agreement, which seems so severe to us that we can, in fact, believe that the government has been carrying all the issues related to coherent regional development from now on. This law is hollow matter. This is contentless matter, and I hope that colleagues are not too pleased today or that they will not be satisfied, because two key issues remain open. Cohesion regions, negotiations, this is the thing we absolutely support, the development regions, which are also linked to our own operations within the country and the development regions remain hollow matter. They will be designed when they are, as the government will imagine and decide, and now I don't even know why the law is so extensive, why it says everything about how, what kind of organs they make up and so on, if there are no such regions. They're gone! They will be when they are appointed or formed by the government itself. In doing so, we fear that neither the will of people and local levels will be respected, nor, of course, the will of Members elected to the National Assembly, who are thus absolutely losing part of their powers or giving them to the altar of the State. We cannot support such a way of working on such important issues as the creation of development regions in the LDS Member State Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u228	Thank you. On behalf of the Paula Rupar Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u229	Thank you, Chairman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the law, and we view it as a critical state of those who say what they are about a matter, and now they are not anymore because of something. We estimate that they continue to practice from the past, when there was no will, when the opposition was the most in the direction of doing nothing and everything else, whatever is said, is assessed as, nicely said, bluffing. Those who support the law accept very much responsibility, but we accept it consciously. Consciously, because the time has come for local self-government to be built at the second level, we are, I think, the last European country in the European Union, which we do not have established either cohesion or developmental or other regions. We're taking over a very chaotic state if we can talk about it at all. We accept something that has not been able to be built without negotiation, without compromise, for which there has been no will, and we just want the government that accepts all this now on its own, when we give it a mandate to be successful. Of course, it is democratic and legitimate that the government has asked this honourable assembly whether it gives it a mandate to negotiate on its behalf. And if we vote that, I think we voted a perfectly legitimate confidante to do so. For we know governments that have never asked the National Assembly about the things they have done, which they have done beyond the will of the legislative body, even unlawfully, as has been shown recently from day to day. We want to support this law because we trust that the government will succeed in the negotiations due to the balanced development of regions and municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u230	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Christian Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u231	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, we will be very pleased to support this law because we believe that this is a major step forward in promoting coherent regional development. And I am surprised that the opposition colleagues do not support this, and I have seen from the debate that they support regional development, encourage it and so on. But now all of a sudden, it's not. And I believe that we are imposing on the government great responsibility and expectations on all of us in Parliament and Slovenian citizens, that we should, however, take a step forward towards regionalisation. This is the first decisive step, and if the government and the ministry will implement this story, then the great winners will be, as Slovenia will be more balanced, that even in those regions where we are very underdeveloped, the White landscape, Posavje, Prekmurje, will receive a little greater recognition of this country, that we live in this country and that we live a better quality of life than we live today. And that step is done. I know he's not the only one, there will be other steps, tax reform, landscapes and so on. Today's debate has also shown how many landscapes are acceptable to most Members, and I believe that the government has heard and will take this into account in the next steps. Of course, we are imposing a great deal of responsibility and expectations on her here today, and I believe she will justify them on behalf of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u232	Thank you. Vote explanation, Member of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. As my colleague Barovic said, I will not support the law as well as the Slovenian National Party. In my opinion, too, the law is contrary to the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in matters of the European Union. Trusting the government to set up regions with some of its decrees to set up the money that Slovenia is supposed to take over is irresponsible of this national council. We trust the government with today's law - and here I will relate to this, not the past, the present of this government is 5.5 million euros that cannot be used and we will have to return to the European Union, as long as this government is within a month, which I doubt it will do, given how it is going to solve certain things, and we will have to return these funds to the European Union, which was intended to build a second track from the port of Kore - which we know for what it means for the port of Cyprus - we trust it to determine how many regions Slovenia will have, and not least, why we speak about the regions, we trust it with the fact that Slovenia will receive in the area of regionalisation from the European Union. I am convinced that we cannot have such confidence in this government after one year of its term in this state. At least based on the experience and work of this government so far. I can therefore say with certainty that I will vote against this proposal simply because the government has not aroused in me the one-year confidence in the work of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u234	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, for a very short time, I did not discuss these matters very much, warned my colleagues that we are today adopting a law that relates to something that does not exist. There's no development regions, there's no marriage, there's no place else. We accept all the co-financing mechanisms, committees, to something that is not. It's a law that doesn't even virtually exist, a virtual region exists, but it's nonexistent. So far, we've always had laws that relate to some real object, I don't know, notariat, smokers, tobacco, tobacco policy, all sorts of things, if I'm reading here. This refers to something that isn't. I warn you, colleagues and colleagues, well-intentioned - from the coalition - that you are enacting a law on things that do not exist; and these are the development regions, because they are not in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u236	Thank you. Explanation of the voice Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you. I don't know why for five years as Vice-President of the Committee - first of all the Commission, now the committee, with all due respect - I sit and sit down, now even on Fridays at two, at three, at five o'clock, when many of you go and go home, and for five years to negotiate on the basis of the law on government and the State Assembly, what will be the regional regulation of this country at European level. Five years of arguing, convincing, and also the Foreign Minister is with us, including the former minister. We all know, five years of convincing, grumbling, I don't know what else, so today we're going to give Bianca a thought to someone that he's going to decide what he thinks. Every minute, every hour I've had, Slovenians and Slovenians, colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry! I felt sorry for them because we fought for this Slovenia, we fought for regional arrangements, we fought for our rights. And today we're going to give someone a choice to make what he thinks - after five years! On the other hand, I end, and I am ashamed that Europe, which you have chosen, does not, but we respect the rules, even double the criteria and today at midnight all the criteria are violated and allowing the neighbouring country, will not be called to do what it wants to do, even though it does not meet anything. We Slovenians, however, walked on our knees towards the Austrians and the Italians, and we had to make a zero in order to negotiate in Europe. And today, when we are in Europe, we leave a decision to someone, somewhere, sometimes who will say yes or no. I am ashamed of all five years of working on the European Union Committee!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u238	Thank you. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u239	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! I will vote against this law for a number of reasons. Above all, this whole, I think, six-and-a-half debate has not convinced me that this law would be good. On the other hand, I kind of insist on signing blank sheets of paper, agreeing that, here in the National Assembly, Parliament's right to bring us to a level of assembly that confirms the decisions of the government or, in this case, not even the decision of the government, but to give any authority to anyone -- now I am not just talking about this government, I think that is actually one of the basic issues of democracy, as well as that we do not trust and that we do not give signed cheques to anyone without numbers. The second thing, or third thing, which seems to me to be so significant in some way, is that it is constantly being taken to the National Assembly - "mick per mic" is said - and in a small way, its basic function and it is actually brought to a purely ordinary confirmer, in which case even future decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u240	Thank you. The word is given by the Member of Parliament, Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u241	Thank you very much. I'm actually, I'm going to say, and I'm amazed to be watching it all. Not least of all, the minister's smile. I hope or fear that when we fall to the real ground, this smile is more bitter than it is today when we decide or discuss this law. I have heard from a representative of the government party that he will support the law for the sake of equitable development of the municipalities. Today we decide on two divisions, but we don't really know anything about one. We asked the minister, I asked him myself, and he said nothing, actually. So we adopt a law that means nothing. Article six - what does he say? Nothing. Article 7 says nothing either. All he's talking about is the government's decision. About what? Nothing, it's an answer, a respected minister, even with a smile on his face. Once again, I would like to say why I will not actually support this law, a law that actually means nothing. For the Slovenian National Party, there is still a legislative branch of power, I will say, the highest branch of authority that we must give it a mandate to decide on these matters. These are important issues that will be addressed or touched by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Last but not least, you know, the people gave us a mandate to have the National Assembly decide on these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u242	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u243	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - the Christian People's Party we will support the law. It was a long debate. We would like to point out once again that this law is not only important in the cohesion region and in the development regions, but is an important whole law. The law, which speaks of how much it will be intended in the future for coherent regional development, which speaks of how much gross social product we will devote to this one who talks about how much of gross social product we will devote to specific incentives for the most vulnerable areas. This, among other things, is the case with this law, and some of you have ignored it or have not been careful about it. The law discusses how it defines more clearly the tasks at regional level and competences on the one hand of the regions and future entities that will actually perform certain tasks in the region. That's what the law says. However, in the New Slovenia Group of Members - the Christian People's Party, we trust the government and therefore give this law a mandate to the government to make real decisions about important matters in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u244	Thank you. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have previously supported the amendment of the Liberal Democracy for the establishment of fourteen development regions or landscapes, but I will not reject the law or support the law, but will abstain. Indeed, this is the case with these regions or development regions and landscapes. It has already fallen into parliamentary folklore somehow: for Members from Ljubljana there would be only one region, for MEPs from Maribor there would be enough two regions, for MPs from Kopra there would be only three regions for Members from Nova Gorica there would be only eight, a large majority would probably agree with 12 regions, for colleagues from Velenje and Ptuj there are only fourteen regions, and I, Janko, my colleague from Kočev, would, for example, be satisfied with the twenty-two regions. This topic is never a complete story, and I also doubt that we will do something fair in this area in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u246	Thank you. There's a word for Rudy Mogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u247	Chairman, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When after this vote - you will probably vote the law - you will come among your constituents, they will ask which cohesion region we are in, and I will say, "I don't know, ask the government." When we ask me what development region we're in, I'll say, "I don't know, ask the government." According to my personal taste, when I read this law, this law does not bring any quality on the basis of which development in the Republic of Slovenia could develop to such an extent that there would be no more undeveloped areas and, in my opinion, it is the same as it is, a toothless tiger, so I will not decide on it either against or leave.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u248	Thank you. Joseph Scholch has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u249	Thank you very much. In addition to all the arguments that have already been said why such a law cannot be supported, I would remind you that for a decade there was a debate on the regionalisation of Slovenia; and that the parties to the current government coalitions strictly, and especially the SLS, were opposed to any regionalisation being possible without the consent of the municipalities. The second rule is that it is not possible to transfer essential powers without law. We're breaking that today, too. Here, too, both SDS and SLS cancel these constitutional assumptions. The law simply does something that no one had ever hoped to suggest: that by law he would transfer the power to dissect Slovenia to a government decree. Even the municipality cannot be established in Slovenia without law and prior decisions; regions, whatever the case, can be established by government decree. Here it goes, I will say, for the total cancellation of the historical memory of these parties and also for the deception of those who believed that they would always be asked when they would be placed in the provinces or congregations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u250	Thank you. Voice explanation, Boštjan Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. One of my previous speakers from the New Slovenia party said his explanation - I am not laughing very much, which is fine with me - that the tasks of the regions are properly outlined and defined in this law. Can you tell me which regions, how many regions these regions will be, where these regions will be; we have tasks for nothing. You know, it looks like you're issuing a car license today that's not yet available to me to drive or not. It is precisely because of this confusion that I will also vote against this law on your government side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u252	Thank you. And we're moving on to decision-making. An explanation of the voice? I'd like you to raise your hand a second time. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u253	I cannot support the law because it is valid, it must be said that in the past the government has been given all the power to negotiate with the European Union in this Parliament, in the Commission, and now it is no longer so. With this law, the government will, in particular, take all the powers that the establishment of the congregations does not have, as has been said, due to the rejection of the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group. But now I'm just going to decide where and what they're going to be. Today, we wanted the National Assembly to be so powerful as to tell the European Union that we want to have 14 development regions in Slovenia. Those powers were not able to be represented by the ruling coalition. Therefore, we feel that the law before us has no substance. The government came under this law when it proposed two cohesion regions in the law, then withdrew and misused the agreement of the presidents of the parliamentary parties. I cannot authorize the government as a Member to do something on my behalf that has not shown in the last nine, 10 months that it is capable of doing. If this law laid down the development regions, which was the amendment, then it would be a law to promote coherent regional development, because this law does not provide for it, in fact this is a good instruction to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, how to negotiate in the European Union. You, 43 who have come to the development regions, must take full responsibility for the adoption of this law, so I will not personally support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u254	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against 16. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 38. On the eve of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the proclamation of the environmental protection zone and the epicontinuous passport of the Republic of Slovenia - an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u255	Dear Members and Members! Dear Vice President! The fundamental ecological characteristics of the Adriatic Sea are the closure, shallowness and weak sea currents. Due to increasing pressures and impacts from land, coast and sea, the Adriatic is becoming increasingly endangered by the marine ecosystem. Maintaining it requires an active response from coastal countries with coordinated load reduction plans. The Republic of Slovenia shall, by means of a proposal for a law declaring the ecological protection zone and the epidemiological zone, exercise the rights it enjoys under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and International Law of the Year. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u256	Mr. Squirrel, if you'll excuse me, please. Peace in the hall! Who doesn't care if he leaves the meeting room and let the minister give an additional explanation to the law? Go on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Slovenia shall therefore exercise the rights it enjoys under the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and International Law, as well as the opportunities it has under international customary law. By adopting a law declaring the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone, the Republic of Slovenia, as a coastal state, will ensure equal status to its Adriatic neighbours, in particular Italy and Croatia, with which it shares the marine ecosystem of the northern Adriatic. This law will also allow Slovenia to implement the content of sustainable marine resource management based on integrated management of the marine ecosystem. As a sovereign coastal country, Slovenia is working within the competent international bodies, for example, within the framework of the Slovenian-Italian-Croatian Commission for the Protection of the Adriatic Sea and Coastal Areas against Pollution or the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative or the Barcelona Convention, to define as closely as possible the measures taken to implement such a management regime, which will take into account the reduction of pressure and affect the common marine ecosystem of the Adriatic. Slovenia follows the legal practice of the countries of the European Union in the Mediterranean, France, Spain and the intentions of Italy, which have already applied the law of the Convention on the Law of the Sea to a limited extent to protect fish populations and prevent pollution beyond the borders of their territorial waters. We believe that active concerns about the integrity of the marine ecosystem in the closed sea, in the water body and in the habitat cannot be ensured only by declaring lines, but only by implementing as harmonised regimes for the sustainability of the use of marine resources. By means of this proposal, Slovenia confirms the legal status enjoyed by the former SFRJ with the Republic of Italy on the delimitation of the epidemiological band between the State and the Treaty between the SFRY and the Republic of Italy. In this way, Slovenia has the same opportunities with regard to the use of the epicontinental band as Italy and Croatia have. We will exercise our rights and the duties of the sovereign maritime state. We will implement them in accordance with international law and European Community law. This proposal also allows Slovenia, in cooperation with the Adriatic countries, to provide, on a tripartite basis, in the framework of the Adriatic Sea Protection Commission, multilaterally, within the framework of the Adriatic-Ionian initiative, an agreed definition of those content, including studies necessary to establish a modern plan for the management of the closed sea, which the ecosystem is at risk of increasing pressures from various economic activities at sea, coast and land. The draft law takes into account the objectives of reducing pressures and impacts on the marine ecosystem. This is also the basic guiding principle of the EU Maritime Strategy. The draft law may also serve as a good basis for the implementation of the decision of the high representatives of the governments of the Adriatic-Ionian initiative adopted in June this year. Representatives of Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Montenegro, Albania and Greece have proposed that the Adriatic be declared a specially protected maritime area in accordance with the criteria of the international maritime organisation due to an increasing maritime traffic. In this way, the Adriatic countries want to give strong support to the implementation of this objective also in the context of the implementation of the Mediterranean Action Plan, in particular in the period 2005-2007. Dear Members and Members! By this law, Slovenia lays down a framework for the exercise of its sovereign rights as a maritime State with direct access to the high seas. Nor does the bill define the boundaries of territorial waters, recognizing that the border with the Republic of Italy is established and in accordance with international law and thus unchanged. The draft law also explicitly provides that the ecological zone with Croatia shall be established by a specific agreement between States in accordance with international law. By establishing monitoring of the state of the marine ecosystem and the maritime pollution disaster management services, Slovenia is also becoming a modern European coastal country, which is responsible and actively implementing measures to reduce the pressures and impacts on the marine ecosystem shared with other Adriatic countries. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have listed some of the environmental arguments on the basis of which I propose that the proposed law be supported. The international law and others will also be presented by a colleague of Dr Dimitrij Rupel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u258	Thank you, Minister Podobnik. I would like to take the floor by inviting Dr. Dimitri Ruple, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u259	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members. The basic objective of the law on the protection of the ecological zone and the epicontinental zone is, of course, the protection of the sovereign rights of the Republic of Slovenia on the high seas. The starting point for the protection of sovereign rights is the territorial exit to the open sea. A few days ago, we read an article by a renowned Croatian expert on international maritime law saying that Slovenia has such an exit, only that it does not have its territorial sea contact with the open sea and that Slovenia must go to the open sea through the Croatian territorial sea. Well, of course, at first sight a generous decision can be answered only by not really knowing which part of the sea is the Croatian part and which part of the sea is the Slovenian part, and that it is necessary to agree that we have a few years ago, a few years ago, and by both governments approved an agreement on this subject, but it has not been announced. As regards territorial contact, therefore, of the territorial sea with the high seas, the Republic of Slovenia had such contact in the former Yugoslavia and maintained it even after the collapse of the SFRJ. In accordance with the basic constitutional Charter on Independence and Independence, our country as an independent country, the sovereign state has assumed rights and obligations relating to the territorial sea, and thus a direct territorial exit or contact if you wish - as Mr Ibler would - to the open sea. The territorial exit to the open sea means that Slovenia has its epicontinent belt and thus the possibility to declare exclusively economic or other zones. In view of the above, the Republic of Slovenia has an opportunity under international law to protect its rights at sea outside territorial waters. It's not just about our own, about our own, about our Slovenian interests, after all, it's about the interests of the sea as a whole. Ecology doesn't know the borders. Let me repeat with him that in recent years several Mediterranean countries have actually decided to declare such or other zones. We have already considered such options in the past year, when Italy, Croatia, proposed to Slovenia the proclamation of a common protection zone. We have proposed a common protection zone for all three countries, Italy, Croatia and Slovenia in the northern Adriatic Sea. Unfortunately, the Slovenian proposal would not have been taken into account at that time. Croatia has retained, as you know, with some restrictions its ecological ecological fisheries zone and Italy is preparing to announce its ecological protection zone. By adopting legislation in the National Assembly, as long as it is adopted, of course, the Republic of Slovenia will have a basis for establishing effective measures and mechanisms to preserve the overall marine ecosystem of the Adriatic Sea, the territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, coastal areas. At the same time, the Republic of Slovenia will also protect its rights on the high seas by adopting a law on the protection of the ecological zone and the epicontinental zone, as a situation will be restored in the Adriatic Sea, allowing Slovenia to negotiate equally the delimitation of maritime belts with neighbouring countries. The draft law complies with the principles of international law and all international treaties applicable to the Republic of Slovenia and cannot be interpreted as a territorial requirement, although such interpretation occurs there. In addition, the zone covers maritime areas outside the territorial sea, so this is not territory. The possibility to declare an ecological zone gives the country international law, specifically the 1982 UN Convention on International Maritime Law, in its fifth part, in connection with the 12th part relating to the protection and preservation of the marine environment. The content of the bill is also in line with the agreement between the Government of the SFRJ and the Government of the Republic of Italy of 1968, it is the delimitation of the epicontinent belt and then also in accordance with the Treaty between the SFRJ and the Republic of Italy with Annexes 1 to 10 signed in Ozima in 1975. The Republic of Slovenia is a party to both of these international agreements on the basis of the legacy of the former SFRJ, which Italy has also acknowledged to us. The internal legal basis includes Article 4 of the Maritime Code of the Republic of Slovenia, which has recently been amended in this assembly, which provides for the possibility of exercising sovereign jurisdictional rights and the control of maritime surfaces, seawater pillars, seabeds and sea underworld beyond the borders of national sovereignty. The legal basis for declaring this zone is also the law and direction of the European Union - we have already heard that similar measures or similar legal practice are being implemented by, say, European Union countries such as Spain and France. In the environmental protection zone, Slovenia will exercise its sovereign rights regarding research and sustainable use, conservation and management of marine resources, jurisdiction over scientific research and conservation and protection of the marine environment in accordance with international law and obligations arising out of the acquis of the European Union. However, the detailed way in which individual sovereign rights and jurisdictions are exercised, as provided for by the Environmental Protection Zone and the Epicontinental Zone Act, will be subject to further internal legal procedures leading to the adoption of the relevant implementing acts. What will be the first step after this proposal or marriage has been adopted? The Zone should first be notified to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. They are waiting for us in accordance with Article 5 of the Law, which stipulates that the final external border of the ecological zone will be established by international agreements with neighbouring countries, so negotiations with Italy and Croatia await us. Pending the conclusion of an agreement, until such negotiations are concluded, the temporary delimitation of the ecological protection zone with the Republic of Italy shall be the same as that laid down by the agreement between the Government of the SFRJ and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the delimitation of the epidemiological zone between the States of 1968 and the Treaty between the SFRJ and the Republic of Italy, referred to as the OAS, from 1975 with Annexes 1 to 10. The temporary outer limit of the protection zone on the south side shall be followed by a parallel with a geographical width of 45 degrees 10 minutes, with the final limit of that zone being determined precisely by an international agreement with the Republic of Croatia. With the Republic of Croatia, an epicontinental band will also be demarcated by an international agreement in accordance with Article 83 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. In negotiations with neighbouring countries, our country will strive, as ever, for constructive dialogue and for an agreed and responsible consideration and resolution of all issues relating to the Adriatic Sea. There's something else I'd like to say in the end. This morning, the European Union General Affairs and External Relations Council gave a green light to the European Union's negotiations with neighbouring Croatia. In his speech at the end of this solemn session, the President of the Croatian Government said a sentence worth filling, saying, "Trust Croatia!" So let's trust her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u260	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Rudolph Petan, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister, Government Representative, colleague and colleague. At its third emergency meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the Environment and Space addressed a proposal for a law on the proclamation of the environmental protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to deal with it following an urgent procedure. The reasons for the adoption of the law and the main environmental content of the proposed solutions were presented by the Minister for Environment and Space and by Mr Janez Podobnik and the international legal and maritime content by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dr Božo Cerar. The internal legal basis for the declaration of the ecological protection zone is the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Maritime Code, which provides for the possibility of exercising sovereign rights, jurisdiction and the control of the marine surface of seawater pillars, seabeds and marine underworld beyond the limits of national sovereignty in accordance with international law. The international legal framework, however, represents the 1982 United Nations Convention, the agreement between the Government of the former SFRY and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the delimitation of the epicontinent band between the States of 1968 and the Treaty between the SFRY and the Republic of Italy signed in Ozima in 1975. The protection price limit has not yet been definitively established and will be established by a specific international agreement based on agreements reached with neighbouring countries on demarcation in accordance with international law. However, until such an agreement is concluded, a temporary delimitation of the ecological protection zone, which coincides with the Republic of Italy with an already defined boundary of the epicontinental zone, with the previously mentioned agreement between the States of 1968 and the OAS, and with the Republic of Croatia, the border is temporarily carried out in parallel with the geographical breadth of 45% of the 10 minutes northern latitude as provided for by the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on border traffic cooperation. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the proposed Act was given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, as well as legislative technical aspects. With regard to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, Dr Miha Pogačnik of the Institute for International Law explained that the purpose of the founders of the Act under consideration in Article 1 was to fully cover both the international legal and domestic legal basis for the decision to declare the ecological protection zone and the establishment of the epicontinental zone. The Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, added that, when preparing the law under consideration, a group of experts from legal and other fields carefully considered how to properly write Article 1 of the Act under consideration. Therefore, it considers that the proposed solution in Article 1 correctly summarises the grounds and, on behalf of the Government, assesses that there is no need to amend Article 1 of the proposed legislation. In the debate, the members of the Committee said that they fully supported the proposed law in the parliamentary groups, as it would achieve two important objectives: to establish effective measures to preserve the marine ecosystem of the Adriatic Sea and to protect national interests in the epicontinental belt. The view was expressed that Slovenia was obliged to protect and exercise its interests on the high seas also in practice and that one step was the proposed law. Following a discussion on the individual articles of the draft law, the Committee on the Environment and Space voted together in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on all articles of the law and adopted them. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law, the Committee on the Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law on the proclamation of the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia, the urgent procedure, the examination and adoption in the text as sent to the legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u262	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to my colleague Bogdan Barovic for giving the views of the Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister, lady of the government, gentlemen of the government! The Slovenian national party will, at any time, in any case and unconditionally support the proposal for a law declaring the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia. This right should not be sought, for no historical and geographical fact requires us Slovenians to seek this right at all. We Slovenians have responded fully to the equivalent action of the neighbouring countries of Croatia and Italy. And some of us in this National Assembly have expressed doubts that this is the unilateral will of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, we reject and despise in the Slovenian National Party. Finally, this bill is a fact and the first act of rebellion in the history of my five years as a member of the Slovenian National Party in this National Assembly. Finally, the first act of rebellion! I won't be long. You've heard the stories of history, peace and everyone who shouldn't have at all, because that's ours. It will be, and it will be! But, Mr. Foreign Minister, it's nice of you to say a sentence that I'll forget right after. I don't trust the Croats, but I do, Slovenians, trust the Slovenians! For once, I hope, and trust this national council. For each of the members of the Slovenian National Party, anyone who doubts this law in any way or has any concerns is such a person as to betray the Slovenian people.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u264	Thank you. We are moving on to the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Ambassador Ivan Yelen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u265	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! The proposal for a law on the proclamation of the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental belt of the Republic of Slovenia is fully supported by our parliamentary group. We support the law from a principled point of view and from an opportunity given to us by international law in 1982. It is the essence of the legacy of the former Yugoslavia and the agreement, which is based on 1968. The bill is governed by the principles of international law and is not understood as a requirement for the sea of Croatia or on the other side of Italy. The law also supports our parliamentary group as a result of resolving doubts as soon as possible whose sea is and where this belt, which will be owned by the Republic of Slovenia, is supposed to be our legal way into the sea. We believe that this law must also be supported from the point of view in order to finally solve the problems of our fishing environment, our untouchable territory. We support the Government's proposal to put the belt also on historical traditions, in which we have invested all the knowledge we are overcoming in this area. And finally. What is the legacy of the 1968 agreement? It guarantees the legal succession of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The point is that we have long-standing users of this part of the territory and that these rights certainly belong to us under international law, the United Nations Convention and the Maritime Code, the Treaty between the SFRY and the Republic of Italy. Following these facts, it is not possible to take this action as a territorial requirement. We support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We support the efforts of all legal professionals and consider it worth supporting the law. We all know that there have been discussions in this direction about the adoption of similar legislation in Croatia's neighbourhood and that Italy will also do so. In the Democratic Party of the Pensioners and its parliamentary groups, we feel that it is not necessary to discuss this law for a long time, but it is high time that all parties to the opposition and the coalition support such a bill sent to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. By adopting, we will protect our vital interests, enabling us to have international law and internal legislation for the ecological protection of the North Adriatic and the protection of the interests of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia around the epicontinental belt. As a parliamentary group, we join the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Policy, which has set out its irrevocable position that at this moment it is high time to protect our interests and take into account the fact that Croatia has already done so considerably before, without any negotiation with our country. The adoption of this bill is also important due to the view of an unquality ecological attitude that we have not used foreign policy issues in our country so far, nor since Croatia's approximation to the European Union. We support the expressed Slovenian national interest, so we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u266	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members, Member Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposal for a law declaring the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone. There are certainly more reasons to support, let me mention just a few. Slovenia has long identified itself as a maritime country and has also identified itself as supporting the maritime direction. Finally, Slovenia has its own sea and is obliged to do everything possible to protect its interests in this area. Another important reason is that our neighbour Croatia has already declared its protection fishing zone and that our Western neighbour Italy is preparing for a similar step. This fact requires an urgent and concrete step on the part of our country. Slovenia has a legal basis for this step in international law, in particular in the United Nations Convention which gives States the right to establish zones, areas whose purpose is to protect and preserve the marine environment. This is the way the regime for the use of the sea is thought, both in terms of the exploitation of the sea and the ecological balance in this area. In this regard, the environmental aspect is particularly highlighted in the SDS. The characteristic of the Adriatic Sea is shallowness and a specific geographical location, which lies in an area producing huge amounts of sewage that threaten the sea due to limited self-cleaning characteristics. I would mention the Pad River, which collects sewage for all of Northern Italy, but we know that this represents more than two thirds of Italy's industrial potential. The Adriatic Sea is also threatened by rising traffic flows, especially in the northern Adriatic. In support of this, I refer to the case of the last marine pollution in Cyprus. The release of ballast waters from ships from major ports of the northern Adriatic, such as Koper, Trieste and Venice, is also to be mentioned, further threatening the northern Adriatic ecosystem. The situation worsens the fact that the Adriatic Sea is a closed sea as part of the Mediterranean Sea and therefore requires greater care to preserve ecosystems. At first glance, there may be another threat that does not seem to be as important, but, as the data shows, it is not so innocent. In fact, she escaped from the labs in Nice, either by mistake or by negligence, a tropical algae that had just become rich in the Mediterranean Sea. And if we added the pollution caused by man on the normal route through the water, of course, the disaster would be inevitable. The establishment of the border of the Slovenian ecological protection zone is based on an agreement between the Government of the former SFRJ and the Government of the Republic of Italy of 1968 and with the additions of 1975, with the exception agreements. Of course, Article 4 of the Maritime Code also gives the State the sovereign right to exercise its rights over this area. It is not insignificant, however, that two of the successors of this Agreement between the former SFRJ and Italy agree on a border or a coordinated definition of the entry of the line of the epicontinental band. The talks are going in the direction that this belt should be closed in the north and open in the south, meaning that Slovenia is so much more responsible to protect its interests. On this basis, we could say that this law is not only necessary, but also that the necessary response to the many unilateral steps taken by the successor to the agreement between the SFRJ and, of course, Italy is only a signatory, one to the parties to this agreement. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposed law, especially because it is now the first time that our government has responded in real time to the unilateral moves of the neighbouring country. We will support this law in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u268	Thank you. I invite Dr. Pavliho, Vice-President of the National Assembly, to take the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for the floor, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. It grieves me that not all 90 colleagues and colleagues sit here on such important topics as the sea and sea. But that is the case, even in this way we may point to our traditional continental attitude towards this problem, that the sea usually interests us only during holidays. Most members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the law, but we would like to draw attention to some of the dilemmas here, some of the concerns. First time. This law will not, of course, save the fact that we do not currently have any specific diplomacy towards neighbouring countries or that diplomacy or foreign policy is slow. I am aware of the importance of working in various international institutions, the OSCE, the United Nations and others. But without good neighbourly relations, any international involvement will not mean anything to us. Another time. The law is nothing more than a panic reaction to the opposition's action, for we have uncovered secret agreements between Italy and Croatia on the re-retraction of the line of the epicontinental belt, and this has been the case since 1968. In doing so, let us be silent about the fact that the area has already been prepared by the previous State Assembly and Government. Let us just remember the amendment to the maritime code, Article 4, which allows such a declaration to be made by the sea zone, of course such a text was not necessary. We already have this right under the Convention itself. But the effect was probably pedagogical, not least of which we achieved that Croatia did not declare the exclusive economic zone, but only organic fishing and later exempt all members of the European Union from it. Third time. This marriage may sound a little bit like fear, it's haunted inside, and there's not much fighting around it. Why? It is at the breaking of international law because international law dictates consensual and just solutions, but it is true that it defers its essence for an indefinite period of time, its essence to an agreement, to the final determination of borders, which will of course be agreed upon. However, it must be acknowledged that it contains one very, very important point, namely point 5. For the first time in our lives, we will set ourselves here at the highest level and say that not only do we have the right to leave the high seas on the basis of international customary law or on the basis of other international sources of exit. No! No! This output is already defined in the point, and now only needs to be clarified. The claims that Slovenia does not have an exit to the open sea are twisted from the vine. The breakup of Yugoslavia has, of course, returned the Croatian sea between the Slovenian territorial and international waters, but now, of course, it is only necessary to clarify our right to reach the open sea. This can be done in a number of ways; either through the Drnovšek-Racan agreement, whose fate is now no longer clear, the new government has also resigned from this agreement as a relatively good compromise. Of course, it is possible to reach such an agreement or a solution on the basis of an arbitral decision or on the basis of a judicial decision, so we ask ourselves how to proceed with the policy of the new government towards the neighbouring country, in particular Croatia. Are we going back to the position of the Badinter Commission? Will we again demand the integrity of the Bay of Piran? Are we going to demand the Gulf of Piran based on a historical fact? We believe that if, in the end, the dispute is indeed decided by arbitration, that it will no longer be possible to invoke and use other peaceful means to resolve the dispute, which, last but not least, are dictated by the Charter of the United Nations, then such an international institution must be required and expected most because we do not lack historical and legal arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u270	Ambassador Pavlich, thank you for your performance. The National Assembly will, however, continue to present its views. Only Bevk has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u271	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. With some foreign policy successes or priorities, such as the management of the OSCE and preparations for the management of the European Union in 2008, the government has neglected to regulate relations with neighbouring countries. At the beginning of the mandate, the government first cancelled the Drnovšek-Račan agreement and thus questioned the tactical advantage we had achieved in our relations with Croatia, and immediately in the first months of this year relations with Italy and Austria intensified. It is clear that the priorities set by Slovenian foreign policy will need to be rectified. The resolution of open issues with Croatia is one of those important projects for the Social Democrats, where we rightly expect Slovenian policy to achieve national consensus. This is a project for us, at the heart of which we want to have what connects us and not what separates us, so it is completely unproductive to have a prestigious squabble between political parties in the Slovenian Parliament when regulating relations with Croatia. In the former SFRJ, the borders between the republics at sea were never determined, as was the case on land. Slovenia and Croatia are successors to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and International Law, the Omnibus Agreements and agreements between the SFR and Italy on the delimitation of the continental belt between countries. These are the basic international legal documents on the basis of which there must be a distinction between the countries at sea. That's an indisputable fact. Historical circumstances are also important in demarcating the Gulf of Piran. Here we have four cities or settlements, Piran, Portorož, Lucija and Sečovlje, which, with their more than 15,000 inhabitants, are gravitating to the Gulf of Piran and depend on it for their lives. On the other side of the bay, there's not a single town, let alone a settlement. The exit to the open sea is strategic and economically important for us. With the amendment of the proposal for a law declaring the environmental protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia, we have warned the Social Democrats that it would be more reasonable to regulate this issue within the framework of the maritime code. The maritime code regulates both the internal maritime borders and the territorial sea, so the declaration of the ecological zone and the epicontinental zone could also be regulated in the maritime code. We have just adopted the law so that all maritime issues are concentrated in one regulation, even comparatively and legally, the provisions on maritime belts are normally collected in this regulation. Unfortunately, our initiative did not bear fruit. The Republic of Slovenia is said to have an exit to the open sea. As a result, we can also declare belts in which we have sovereign rights. This right also guarantees the legacy of an agreement between the former SFRJ and Italy on the delimitation of the epicontinental belt. It is therefore appropriate to support the law. However, it is not appropriate to establish precise coordinates in the second paragraph of Article 5. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea provides that the continental band shall be demarcated between countries by an agreement of States, so as to achieve a just solution. Where the epicontinental belt and the ecological belt of the Republic of Slovenia will be located, it will be clear when it is clear where the border between the territorial sea of Croatia and Slovenia will take place. We will support the law in the Social Democrats Group, but I think we should set up a special expert group as soon as possible in which experts on international and maritime law, historians, geography and experts from some other areas that are familiar with border issues and also other open and controversial issues that we have with Croatia. Stepping on the spot is not good, and inactiveness must no longer be afforded. The fact is that the talks and arrangements of the governments of Croatia and Slovenia in Briony did not bear fruit. However, any further decisions that are before us must be thoroughly weighed. It would be good to have representatives from both the coalition and the opposition participate in the work of the expert group. Your Honor! Let me conclude by saying that we will support the Social Democrats' law, but this law alone is not enough to successfully close the issues that we have open with Croatia and that the border issue between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia will finally be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u272	Thank you. Following the presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group, MEP Jožef Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u273	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, with co-worker and co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In opening, I would like to explain that in the New Slovenia Group of Members we have welcomed the proposal for a law on the proclamation of the environmental protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia, which was sent to him by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The content of this law is closely linked to the cardinal issue of Slovenian sovereignty and the character of Slovenia as maritime states. This law confirms that Slovenia has a free territorial exit to the open sea and let us not take it. In the case of this law, it was also possible for the environmental argument to be given the opportunity to apply certain positions which also have an important weight in terms of state-of-the-art. That the time for adoption of the law is right, we argue with the following facts. First time. The Republic of Croatia has already declared its ecological fishing zone in October 2003. Another time. The Republic of Italy intends to do the same. So, both neighbouring countries with which Slovenia shares the Adriatic Sea. Third time. Negotiations are under way between neighbouring countries of the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Croatia on the technical record of the line between the epicontinent belt under an agreement between the Government of the SFRY and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the delimitation of the epicontinent belt between the States of 1968. Taking into account the fact that the border at sea with the Republic of Croatia has not yet been established, the Republic of Slovenia must protect its interests in a timely manner and ensure adequate environmental protection for the work of the epicontinental band under international law and in accordance with domestic law. In Slovenia, however, the rules of customary international law are applicable in accordance with Article 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. They are adapted directly to the Slovenian legal order. The ecological protection zone, as a sub-class of exclusive economic zone, is not a new phenomenon, but has evolved in customary international law over the years in parallel with the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which took as long as 11 years, since 1982, that it was also internationally enforced in July 1993. It is a solid institute on the rights of coastal countries to this institute, there is no doubt about it. It is particularly stressed that borders and border regimes do not change, which means that the proposal does not in any way affect the issue of existing international borders. In the New Slovenia Group, we positively assess that there has been a synergy in this law between environmental concerns and the exercise of foreign policy interest. The border of the territorial sea, although formally determined as regards environmental protection, is not a formal border that would represent the external border of interest of Slovenia and by this law Slovenia states that it has its own environmental interest and environmental concerns go beyond the external border of the territorial sea, wherever it is already. By implementing this law, the Republic of Slovenia only legally ensures an equal formal status so that it can be discussed multilaterally on these issues. However, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea laid down, in three important articles, the delimitation rules, but as a condition it lays down that countries have equal maritime bands. It is not possible to demarcate the non-equitable maritime belts under the Convention. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenian-Christian People's Party, we are convinced that Slovenia must recognise the rights it has under international maritime law. Therefore, the proposal for a law declaring the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia will be unanimously supported. However, we feel that it is very late to adopt this law. For long, perhaps too long, we have dealt with the Drnovšek-Racan agreement, which Nova Slovenija has never supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u274	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Ambassador Joseph Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u275	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister with co-worker and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The law prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Space in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which we are dealing with today, represents the first decisive step towards Slovenian independence towards the exercise of Slovenian national interest towards the Republic of Croatia. In our view, the law is professionally justified, as it is based on international law which gives Slovenia the right to protect its rights and interests at sea also outside territorial waters. The law also complies with the Coalition Treaty, which provides for a new start of negotiations with the Republic of Croatia and establishes a state at the border before 25.6.1991. Before that date, Slovenia had a comprehensive Bay of Piran and free access to the open sea. For many years, the Slovenian People's Party has been working hard to establish its clear views in public and political circles on the integrity of the national territory, which included the entire history of the sea in the northern Adriatic. The positions of the Slovenian People's Party are based on solid arguments from the historical, ethnic and legal professions presented in the chamber of the domestic and international public. In accordance with these arguments, the Slovenian People's Party will endeavour to establish, in the event of possible arbitration, Slovenia's position that the Bay of Piran is Slovenian and cannot be subject to arbitration, as well as the question of free territorial access to the open sea, which Slovenia has always had in history. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, in the event of arbitration, account will have to be taken of all the internationally established distinctions between Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, including in the spirit of historical justice. The law that we are adopting today establishes the ecological protection zone and the epicontinent belt south of point T-5 and thus only confirms that Slovenia is the legal successor of the exclusive agreement between the Republic of Italy and the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia from 1975, when the sea to the border with Italy was determined to point 5, under the control of the Slovenian police. The Slovenian People's Party also believes that Slovenia will firmly represent its national interests in the exercise of its rights of access to the high seas in negotiations with the Republic of Croatia even during the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, as it expects Croatia to respect the standards and criteria established in the European Union in the handling of open issues. This is especially because the Republic of Croatia is now open for entry into the European Union. If I speak briefly, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will unanimously support the law in the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u276	Thank you. This has ended with the relocation of the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, this is the decision on the proposal for a law. I will ask you to sign up for those who have an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Barovic, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u277	The Slovenian national party will be unconditional at any time, wherever supported by this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u278	Thank you. A presentation of the views of Members and Members will follow. Comrade Aurelio Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u279	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The heart of democracy is also the right to doubt and to differ. We'll get through this in our client. See, we should ensure reliable jurisdiction, safe navigation, safe fishing, effective ecological and other control over the territorial waters that we have declared ours and then, of course, go a step further. We're doing the opposite, of course, because of my vote in this law. The applicant did not, however, convince that the law governs the state of Slovenian sovereignty in the recorded area more than virtually. Unless we're satisfied that even without us, someone will take care of the cleanness of that sea, and even past the billboard, they won't provide us with this service. He did not convince me that the search for an agreement, since we will be more negotiatingly strong, will now run faster or that there will be no further deterioration that affects the lives of borderline people, especially fishermen. Experience shows that we are going in the opposite direction with such moves. In particular, he did not convince me that we had convinced the European partners that we were dealing with this law in a European way. I miss the message from Brussels that what we are doing is our irresistible right, which Croatia must respect and also recognise if it is to become a member of the European Union. However, I know of another message from the capital of NATO and the EU that it does not intend to interfere with this dispute or that it expects a negotiated solution. If my fears with this law are demented, I will be sincerely happy, or I will ask in a few months to see how the notification is with the United Nations and how it is with the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u280	Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u281	Thank you for the words of the President, the distinguished colleague and colleagues, the distinguished present! The law that we confirm here today is urgently needed. Last but not least, this explanation could begin by saying that what is ours is ours. I believe, at least at the beginning, when the ministerial two represented the above-mentioned law, I already believed in the constructive functioning of Slovenia outside, against the Republic of Croatia. I take this law as an external policy move, more than an ecological move, and I have already felt that this government has decided constructively for Slovenia to act also against the Republic of Croatia. However, I believe that Mr. Foreign Minister ended his speech more jokingly than indeed, given the weather and the mood in this Chamber, which is very sad and he wanted to cheer us up with one joke when he said, "Trust the Croats." You know, the donkey only goes on ice once and not again, we've already gone twice, I don't think we're going to leave for the third time. Ensure safe sailing, ensure safe fishing. Dear gentlemen of the government coalition, the previous, you had the opportunity to do so for 15 years, but you did not do so, despite the fact that the law, as we have heard, has already been prepared, the guidelines have also been prepared. You just didn't have the courage to do it before. Today this law is before us and we will be happy to adopt it in the Slovenian National Party. I will end with the words: The one who expresses doubts about the right of Slovenia and doubts about what is ours and what belongs to Slovenia is the publisher of the Slovenian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u282	Thank you. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u283	Thank you. Absolutely, once again on my behalf, I support this law. However, if anyone in the international legal field proves to me that Croatia and Italy had to go through a variety of international European and other organisations, even the United Nations, the institutions to declare their ecological zone, then I will also respect this order. We can't, gentlemen, especially there directly, be more papal than the Pope, but let's have once what men have between their legs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u284	Thank you. Member Janez Kramberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u285	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will be happy to support this bill. When I listened to the explanations of the parliamentary groups, I was surprised that some found that this bill was prepared in the wake of international legal acts. I am sure, as well as the following, as stated in the explanation of this law, that these did not break the international legal basis. The law makes this so-called T5 very clear. This is finally already defined at the legal level once, so that we have a comprehensive Piran Bay in this way. And I see this as a state-of-the-art act so that environmental arguments can also be included in this way. I will absolutely support this bill, and I regret that we have not done so much earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u286	Thank you. Paula Rupar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u287	Thank you, Chairman. I want to explain a few things because I don't think they've been properly spoken or even misleading. According to my opinion, foreign policy has a much broader responsibility than just negotiating with neighbours and paying attention to this. I know that our foreign policy is constantly dealing with all the neighbours. My colleague Pavlich is definitely wrong here. Let me go back to the Badinter Commission. Badinter only found that the former republican borders had become state borders. The starting point for this is 25.6.1991, and this was signed by the government in Briony in a declaration or declaration to avoid incidents, which I think is the greatest success anyone can achieve - the starting point back to the point where the state border is recognised. That's where Bevk is wrong, definitely. Currently, in our interest, as far as I know, in the interest of Slovenia, Croatia is negotiating a European Fisheries Commission under the SOPS. Last but not least, look, Slovenia is actually an integral part of the European Union. Yesterday, together with other countries, it gave Croatia a green light for accession negotiations. I don't know why there is some intolerance to Croatia. Let us leave them, as Sanader said, trust them to show whether they belong to an integral part of the European Union. From yesterday, Slovenia has at least 35 opportunities to raise its demands and demands for the European Union towards Croatia before it reaches the European Union. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] So we have a great starting point, and this moment seems to me that for the sake of those who live on vacation, and this is a lot of Slovenians, we do not sharpen by sayings about our relationship with Croatia. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u288	We continue with the explanations of vote. Member Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u289	Thank you for your word. Let me just say, finally! We are finally correcting everything that has not been done in the time of the previous governments, when some time for appearance has been done in such a way that there is a red government, there a red government, and they will make a fine deal. Well, it turns out that Croats in this case acted like someone who couldn't be trusted, so as an unworthy negotiator, and the matter just ended up like we all know how. Now's our chance to fix this. To fix this by adopting a new law and putting things in the right place. I am also one of those who have understood the words of the Foreign Minister as words of a diplomat. But we all know the difference between a lady and a diplomat. The point is that Slovenia stops acting like a lady. I should therefore like to say that, as a citizen and as a Member, I rightly expect this government to exercise its vital interests in a consistent and firm manner against the country of Croatia during the accession negotiations and to demand that the commitments adopted comply fully with European standards. For this purpose, I will also support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u290	Thank you. I would like to take the floor and invite Vice President Mark Pavli.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I'm not going to be able to get on thin ice, and I'm also going to argue with what some predecessors have done. All I'm going to say is that I'm going to support this marriage, all black and black in my throat, because of the things I've been talking about. Even because I thought from the beginning that the law would constitute a strong political gesture, which would mean no longer inviting Croatia to return to the negotiating table, but a request. But what did we get in return? Wave with arbitration or with, in narrations, violent resolution of the dispute. I therefore sincerely hope that this marriage will be only the first stone in the mosaic and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will spend more time in Zagreb as well as in Rome, Budapest, for example in Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and other exotic countries. This will be a step forward, this will contribute to the previous resolution of all the open issues that we have with our neighbour.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u292	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Rudolf Petan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u293	Thank you for your word. I will also support this bill, because I am sure that the government has the right attitude in this case to foreign policy, to foreign policy issues, to foreign policy issues. The fact is that this government is now proposing for the first time a serious document in response to the behaviour of its neighbours. This is the first time that it is such a serious and important document with us as an answer. At the very least, some criticisms or concerns of some people seem to me, especially those who have signed the maritime code in the introduction, or have agreed that Slovenia is a so-called disadvantaged country. That's probably why we had a few problems. That is why I think this answer is the right answer to the conduct of the neighbouring country. Until now, in our history, we have always waited. The international community has continued to promise us, leave it alone, because it belongs to you, you will get it anyway at the peace conference. So we needlessly recall General Maister from the suburbs of Celovac, and others promised him not to intervene in Prekmurje, if you get it all. It wasn't like that. We didn't get everything. And just because we don't fall for something like this in this case, I think that this bill is the right answer, what also allows us international law and what is covered by our internal political acts, internal legal acts. That is why I will support this bill, which I think is very important because of environmental concerns and pollution, because it is increasingly present in the Adriatic. I'll vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u294	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Aloys Sok to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u295	Thank you so much for saying that. I will gladly support this bill and say, "Finally". Finally, we have come to believe that Slovenia is also exercising its right. I'd say next. Every time we use hard words in this national assembly or anywhere else, or political parties, and so on, people living along the border have problems. When we say that, though, let us keep in mind those people who need to live at the border every day and communicate with the other side. Thus, we do not need to say big words here at the expense of Croatia and use inappropriate sentences. I want to distance our parliamentary group from such performances. Thank God, I'm saying that we've come to this point to protect our ecological part of the sea, because if we wait a while longer, we won't have anything more to protect. This is the last moment and it is a shame and I agree with all those who have already said that we have not done so long ago that we have dealt with the Drnovšek-Račan agreement. It is true that New Slovenia has never supported this agreement. I'd say next. As for Croats who say, the Croatian president says, "Croatia is not looking for anything else but will not give its own." The same is true of Slovenia, of course. We don't want a stranger either, and we don't want one. And I hope that the Croats will understand this in this sense and also in what we have read in the media that Croatia has especially thanked Slovenia for its support for its journey to the European Union. I think that we will continue to support them and that, of course, we will also find agreement on this path on open issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u296	Thank you. I would like to invite Member Mirani to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Group of Social Democrats supports the proposal of the law. Our colleague Aurelio Yuri has informed us of his position, which we take for granted. We also support the fact that Parliamentary parties have jointly agreed that this is a single project, which the vast majority believe is in favour of the Slovenes and the Slovenes and our country, so it seems a shame to try to revive the various debates instead of the necessary support on who is ever more or less deserving or guilty of the situation we are in. I think that however we do this, it will be bad for everyone and there will be no one at this point, depending on how far we go back, who will become completely unobstructed. I am therefore convinced that it is a message and that it should be a message from this national assembly that the parties and Members and Members of Parliament want the law not only to be adopted, but that it does indeed have the desired effects that we expect from it. This is a message that we want to regulate our relations with Croatia, that we want to regulate them in the principles of international law, and that we also respect the rights we have to the unity of the Gulf of Piran, to go to the open sea and also to the ecologically clean Adriatic, not only in our work, but in its entirety. I propose that, if possible, I should like to say that we are having a debate on these starting points and that we do not compete this time at a point where there is probably no internal political need for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u298	Thank you. Joseph Horvath has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be happy to break this marriage. I am also pleased with the direction of the debate here today in the National Assembly, which shows that the law will be adopted almost by consensus, and I am also pleased with the positive opinion of the Slovenian public. On this occasion, I would also like to say that in fact today they are somehow combining two very important things, not to say a historical event important to the Republic of Slovenia in relation to Croatia's neighbour. First time. This morning, the European Union's foreign ministers lit a green light for the start of accession negotiations between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia. And a second time. Adoption of this law, which we are currently considering. I want Croatia to conclude the negotiations as soon as possible. My wish is in this decade. However, I will be so much more pleased if Croatia's wish is realized, that is, by 2008, perhaps during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia. I would also like to say that, at least the coalition partners, throughout the accession negotiations, we would like to resolve the open issues that we have with the Republic of Croatia in the way that only the neighbours know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u300	Thank you. My word to Aleš Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u301	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! I will support the law, I will vote for a number of reasons, especially because I think it can be a good tool in further negotiations that we still have to do with Croatia's neighbour. The second reason is that we are talking about one of the influences of Slovenian eminents, and here I am so patriotic that it leads me to support the law. I hope that this law will serve the Minister well that Slovenia will not burn with it. And that Slovenian foreign policy will not be burned. We believed too often, we believed too much, and we need to be always careful, not just blindly trusting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u302	Thank you. I invite Member Bojan Kontic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It takes very little for a successful instigation of hatred that leads us nowhere. Of course, I certainly miss all our foreign policy activities a little more determination. However, all the accusations in this national assembly are totally exaggerated, especially at a time when, or when, such high support is announced, this law is as it is today. However, I like the fact that the law is advocated by a minister who could have brought this law to the National Assembly in the previous government. They were in the previous government. I will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u304	Comrade Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The law, which represents Slovenia's national interest, I will be happy to support it, especially because I am particularly sensitive to environmental matters. As far as political consequences are concerned and solutions to problems with the country of Croatia are concerned, when the game ends with the draw or with the heel, it is necessary to bring the chessboard into line and the field of battle to a new one. Now we're doing it on a new one. I agree with that, and I support that, and of course, I warn those who have taken advantage of such a moment as today, which should pass in the interest of the national consensus, for political accounting with some past stories, for which it is possible in the future that they have not been so bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u306	Thank you. We're done with the presentation of Koleg Školč. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Unlike my colleagues, I will not support this marriage. I will not support it even though it has managed to unify virtually all political actors in this country on a policy that has not produced good fruits in solving problems with Croatia. The law cannot be supported for a simple reason, because it does not solve ecological problems, as Mr Podobnik argues, because it does not solve the question of defining this belt, as Mr Rupel argues, because, as in the previous law, when we vote or vote, we will not know where this epicontinental belt is, to what extent and who can exercise sovereignty there. I said on the committee that this was another one of those moves that the actors here are defending: one was picking cherry, the other was planting lipo. Of this policy, Slovenia had nothing good. This is just a continuation of Parliament's involvement in this game.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u308	Sign up, please, all those who intend to explain your voice. My friend Squeakle. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u309	Thank you very much. I will support the proposal for a law, although of course I cannot at the same time point out what has been said in particular in the foreign policy field, that it is not fully known what will happen after the adoption of this law. I believe that, above all, today's morning decision, or yesterday's decision by the Council of Ministers to open negotiations with the Republic of Croatia and, of course, negotiations with Turkey, means that relations with the neighbouring country will be resolved primarily in a European way. I think that the adoption of this law and the high consensus reached by the parliamentary parties is primarily responsible for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so that relations with the neighbouring country do not fall either on, we will say, the discussions about the Bovec, or on the sun that blinded the government when the Briony Agreement is signed. Unfortunately, this law is being adopted as a response to some of the actions of neighbouring countries. At the same time, it is clear in this National Assembly that there are still several different opinions on whether Drnovšek-Račan is the best achievement of the agreement so far, because the T5 law also follows the Drnovšek-Račan agreement in substance and on condition that the government understands this parliamentary agreement primarily as a reference to the current work, I will gladly support this law. From the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, I will expect it to be more creative in its relations with the Republic of Croatia than it has been in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u310	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 62 votes against 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I therefore note that the law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 40. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT IS AT THE CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT WORDS OF THE LAW. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Law on Public Collections is confirmed." We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The official text of the identity card law shall be confirmed." We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is confirmed." We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the law on the revision of public procurement procedures is officially clarified. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 54 votes in favour, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the law on access to information of a public nature is officially clarified. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The officially consolidated text of the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 and 2005. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The officially consolidated text of the law on pension and disability insurance is confirmed. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Road Safety Act is officially consolidated. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Political Parties Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Explosives Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 52 Members and a Member of Parliament present, 52 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Local Elections Act is officially consolidated. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Local Self-Government Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] In this way, I note that the text of that Act has been officially consolidated. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the officially consolidated text of the State Council Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Courts Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We turn to the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Kindergarten Act is officially revised. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the Act on Taxation of Insurance Transactions shall be confirmed. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Health and Health Insurance Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the last proposal for a decision on purified texts, which is to confirm the correction of the official consolidated text of the Act on Institutions. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 8th item of the agenda - to the third reading of the proposal for a law on awards and recognitions for outstanding achievements in research and development activities. On Tuesday 27.9.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that the third consideration of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, paragraphs 5 and 5 of paragraph 140 inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We're moving on to decision-making. Comrade Anderlich, if you have anything to say, raise your hand, otherwise please be quiet and don't disturb the session. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the 10th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on veterinary compliance. On Tuesday 27.9 this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles supplemented by a proposal for a law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on the proposal of the bill-maker, that the third consideration of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill's proposal, to the debate on the articles and the amendments that have been tabled to the bench. I am putting to the debate Article 88 and both amendments. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Anybody want to explain their voice? Comrade Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u311	Thank you very much. As far as the amendment to Article 88 is concerned, I will of course support the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats, because it is better and gives a certain guardian that matters for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer and the consumer will be better resolved during this transitional period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u312	Thank you. At the same time, I must warn you that if the first amendment to Article 88 is adopted, the amendment under order number two is irrelevant. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 34. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 34.]] We are moving on to an amendment under order number two. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 13th item on the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration, the third being dealt with in the context of a shorter procedure. On Thursday, 29 September this year, the National Assembly decided, after a vote had been completed, that the vote on the law would take place today after the end of the agenda. That's how we get to deciding the law. Procedural? Procedurally possible. Procedural proposal, colleague Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u313	Thank you for your word. We interrupted the point at the request of one of the parties to the ruling coalition, whom the representative said [[Quoting from session magnetogram]] "I propose that there be no dilemma, that the ruling coalition violates the rules of procedure, that we take some time to reflect on this subject or issue. I therefore propose that we postpone the decision once more, i.e. I propose that the decision be postponed until Tuesday." Now I am interested, procedurally, in what the ruling coalition decided from last Thursday to this Tuesday that we have postponed the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u314	Comrade Zagorac, I must remind you that there is no procedural issue, but a procedural proposal. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u315	Yes, procedurally, I suggest - you can also put to the vote - that we make a statement on whether the ruling coalition should present its position, why we have moved the vote from Thursday to Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u316	Of course, this procedural proposal cannot be put to the vote. However, I think my colleague Potrč also spoke procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking you to give us only two minutes of time for counseling.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u318	Comrade Potts, I will order you this time, but after I give my word to my colleague Gantar and colleague Tank. Comrade Gantar, please, just procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u319	I'd be just as curious as to what the coalition is up to. In fact, I am making a similar proposal, which you, Mr Vice-President, will similarly refuse to have the coalition explain to us what and what conclusions it has come to from Thursday to today. That would be interesting for a magnetogram, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u320	Ambassador Gantar, you know for yourself that you have used the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. I'll give the last word to my colleague Tank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u321	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I would remind you that at the 8th item of the agenda, instead of Mr Jerič, one of the employees of the Liberal Democracy Group voted. I'd like you to check it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u322	In this case, it was an extremely grave violation of the rules of procedure and of all the rules that take place in this house. From this place, I commit myself, together with the leadership of the National Assembly, to verify your claims and take appropriate action. Thanks for the heads-up. Comrade Zagorac, haven't you had enough? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u323	I am still not tired, despite the fact that we have now found or have received confirmation of the possible suspicion of a grave violation of the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. I am making it procedural for this law to be postponed until this suspicion is clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u324	I will not take this procedural proposal into account. I only give the word to my colleague, then on a proposal, the only procedural proposal, my colleague Potræ, will be given a three-minute break. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u325	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! They are to decide on an important law, a law amending and supplementing the law on state administration, which is well known for how it came about. But like my colleague Gantar, I'm going to use these three minutes procedural, and I expect an explanation for at least two things. The first explanation of why you, as president, did not know who then presided, decided that we would simply postpone the decision on this law to this day. If we have already done this, if this has been done, I think we have quite a few of those here who requested it first, we also have the Minister to explain to us what you've come up with this weekend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u326	Comrade Squeakl, I'll take your word for it because you're using the rules of procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u327	Allow me, I'll make a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u328	and a procedural option. [[...]] Thank you. And I give three minutes' rest at the request of the House of the Social Democrats. We continue the meeting at 6.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u329	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the second indent of the 13th paragraph of the agenda, which is, with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. I'll give the floor first to Ambassador Tank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u330	Thank you for your word. When I looked at it, I saw a staff member of the Liberal Democracy sitting in a place where Members usually sit. After writing, I saw that it was also voted, but Jerič is sitting on the other side, so I apologize to the Liberal Democracy Group for accusing her of wrong voting. However, I would like to ask that the services of the National Assembly and those who hold the meeting ensure that in the benches where the Members are, those who do not have a seat there do not sit and disturb the work of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u331	I believe your apology has been taken to the knowledge of those you have accused. On the other hand, at least by the leadership of the National Assembly, I can assure you that if the President, any then chair of the meeting, would have known about the placement of an expert at the seat of any of the Members, of course he would have acted. Now I give my word to Ambassador Miran the Run. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we expected coalition parties to communicate their views after the four-day break they took. They didn't do it. Our assessment is that this is not a correct attitude towards all colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly, so I have asked for a recess to decide whether we are participating in the meeting under such conditions. We have decided once again to say that this national assembly, together with the government and the distinguished minister, will make a major mistake if the state administration law is passed. This will directly affect the legislative authority of the National Assembly, since the National Assembly regulates the relations under which it will operate, as well as the relations of the higher government, the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman, the State Council and so on. If we start to change this with laws, then we can stop working in the National Assembly as the only legislative authorities in this country. I think that this is the wrong decision, and I tell you that we will ask and we are already negotiating with colleagues and colleagues in the Liberal Democracy and the Slovenian National Party to assess once again whether it is worth adopting such laws or whether we would propose to assess their compliance with the Constitution. We will, of course, vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u333	As Chairman, I ask you, Comrade Sok, to give your consideration to this law for four days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u334	Thank you so much for saying that. We have actually proposed that we present this to this day, that we also consult with the Minister of Public Administration at this time, and that we have actually consulted. The government simply decided to make such a proposal. The point is, if we really want to admit or not to admit this fact, the current situation is that every minister has only one secretary, it was different in the previous government. This rules of procedure, which we are using today, have, of course, been written in another situation. It is said that it was written in a situation where the minister could send one, two or even three of them to the National Assembly or to the working bodies of one, or even three, some ministers had even five secretaries. At this point, we are actually in a difficult situation. I agree, of course, it would be more elegant if technically we could resolve this in another way if we changed the rules of procedure. If it is really your real desire to do so, we can try it very quickly, we can table a proposal for a revision of the Rules of Procedure tomorrow. Since you are trying to resist this today, we will do so, and then we will see quickly whether we are ready or not. Of course, today, if it is good will and well - intentionedness, this law before us can be adopted and thus made possible. Of course, the law states that only in exceptional cases can the Director-General represent the position of the Government. We will ask the government that until we arrange this business, that we do not use it and that ministers and secretaries continue to represent government positions to the National Assembly. Otherwise, if you do not agree with this, as chairmen in those committees where you are presidents, you will be able to implement this Rules of Procedure and then to the Directors-General, you will not give a word, but, of course, this will continue to be a problem in our work. We will be proposing a change of rules tomorrow, which we can do very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u335	Thank you for an interesting explanation. Procedural proposal by Ambassador Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u336	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will say, the pause gave me new power for the new procedural proposals, so I would like to request a 20-minute recess before the vote, given the new facts that Mr Sok has just presented to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u337	Allow me just a second to check the business provision. After thinking about it, I'll take a break not for 20 minutes, but 10 minutes. However, this is the last break I will grant under this item, so I advise all those who are still planning to refer to the business provision on the required break to hold the interviews now, as will the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. We'll resume the session at 6.56 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-04-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u338	Members and Members of Parliament, please take their seats. We'll get started on this. We'll be done in no time. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are moving on to a number of breaks of the 13th item of the agenda - a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the State Administration Act. From this place, I ask the representative of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group if he will submit a report? We can understand that they will not report. My friend Zagorac, thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 51 members present, 36 votes against 13. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and conclude the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Good evening, everyone.
