ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Josip Bajc, Bogdan Barovič, Geza Juban, Milan Friday until 1300 hours, Alojz Posedel, Maria Possonec, Dr. Mitja Slavinec and Jožef Školč. We're moving to 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION ON THE RADIOTELVISION OF SLOVENIA. At its 5th extraordinary meeting on 29.6.2005, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-declare before declaring the law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to explain the Council's request. Here you go, Mr. Doro Praise.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u2	Good afternoon! Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister! The Law on Public RTV Slovenia has stimulated particularly lively and controversial debates, which is of course understandable for a young information society in the early 21st century. There is hardly a formed group of civil society that would not have contributed to this debate. The Council of State, which, by its constitutional position and certainly also by its perceived practice, is the closest to civil society interests, has therefore debated this law in particular with overhearing for democratic solutions. It is also in this debate that the conditional utility of the procrastination veto has been demonstrated to the place, which makes it possible, as you know, only for the entire law, but not for the individual provision. The general assessment of the State Council is that this is a good law, which is significantly better than the law before, but is at the same time impossible in its weakest article. At least not so realistic that the principle of democracy, freedom and independence could be respected. It's simply a shame. It is precisely by ensuring that Article 17 truly ensures the participation of the most visible and most representative representatives of organised forms of civil society in the RTV Programme Council, of course, that the programme concept of the central electronic media can be implemented in public terms. The current choice between a potential set of proposals according to the criteria set out in a possible sub-law or even a public call alone is democratic, and in fact - this cannot be ignored - allows the public to be manipulated on behalf of the public itself. With the possibility of intrusion of every current policy, which will not be abandoned by any political option. The public, however, has the right to radio and television with a balanced programme and objective information at local and national level from the same electronic contribution. The Media Act cannot in a rewarding - charitable way regulate what could be regulated by the RTV Act. The public needs to feel that it is not ignored, that it is not in the service of politics, but that politics is in the public service. The public needs a law that will clearly define the criteria and the way in which it affects national RTV’s programming policy, which cannot be regulated only in an implementing act. The National Assembly of this Assembly is capable of adopting such a complementary law. He is capable of dealing with civil society and is capable of loyalty to his own democratic principles. By doing so, he remains faithful to himself and at the same time removes the imaginary or perhaps also the real reasons for any wasteful checks of the human will on RTV or the payment of a contribution to it. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the decision is in your hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, which reported in writing to the assembly. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, Mr Mag. Branku Grims, for presentation of the committee report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. The Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered the request for re-decision at its meeting and also identified itself on all the key points made by the Council of State. Already by one of the members of the Slovenian National Party, as well as by the legal service, it was immediately pointed out that the question of so-called 3% is, of course, an issue of special importance to the media in the manner proposed by the Council of State, unfortunately, because of the 2004 Constitutional Court decision, it is unacceptable to settle as they proposed in this paper. This argument cannot be further examined. It was also pointed out that, as regards the other comments, such as the shortening of this deadline, the moratorium on participation or the possibility of candidates in public broadcasting bodies, the applicant has now taken into account the comments made by the legal profession and has reduced this to the principle of the current and past mandate, which is a principle already known by our first neighbour in the European Union, Austria, as well as some other countries, and thus cannot be disputed any more. As far as the rest is concerned, it is estimated that the law is appropriate. They pointed out some developments in the state world itself, particularly that there had actually been a great deal of emphasis given in the previous period to another proposal, this being said to be a candidate so that one part of the members could also be nominated by the state council. Later, in this latter position, they changed this a little bit. Above all, it was to be felt to a great extent in these debates, which we can all be sure of when we look at the literal minutes of the State Council meeting, much of the current developments in the National Assembly. In fact, we all know that today, even yesterday at a meeting of the National Assembly, he followed a decision, virtually unanimous decision by the legal profession, which is of the opinion that, according to the constitutional decree of the President of the State Council, he can no longer perform his functions professionally and therefore cannot receive wages. But given that there is a practical consensus in the legal profession, even the foretold veto that is to take place today, it certainly cannot affect the decision that has been taken, nor can it affect our decision today. By a majority of all votes, i.e. with nine votes in favour, as set out in the Rules of Procedure, the Committee then voted in favour of proposing to the National Assembly to re-vote this law and with five votes against which they wanted to be specifically recorded, it concluded that the procedural condition for today's re-voting of this law had been met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Please. Mrs. Shirca, procedural question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Chairman. The representative or chairman of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport submitted a report to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport in a fully subjective manner. There has been and also, as we see in the minutes, quite different conclusions and also quite different debates. I would therefore suggest or ask that the report of the Education Committee, which presents an objective record of the Committee's events, be read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I think the committee's report has been given, but it's given in a way that some of you don't accept. However, I think we must continue our work and accept this report from the Committee. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill of reasons for the opinion. Please, Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u8	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Since the Government's proposal for a Radiotelevision Act was last considered and adopted in this High Council, no convincing new complementary proposals or circumstances have emerged which would mean that the government proposal should be amended or supplemented in any way. On the contrary, more and more affirmative articles are emerging and there is an ever-increasing belief in the public that a new law on Radio Television must be adopted by Slovenia, which is not only a commitment of the government coalition because of the commitment, but rather a commitment based on the knowledge that it is necessary to provide users who pay a contribution to the functioning of the public service with comprehensive and objective information on all those matters concerning the individual and his position in society. This requires a new regime that will also ensure transparent business, for example, organised separately from the public service in the field of market activities; a new regime that will clearly define the responsibility of those entrusted to them in the public service; a new regime that will guarantee the autonomy of journalists and provide an opportunity to create better programming content in all areas, from information, cultural and artistic, educational, entertainment and sports, and, last but not least, a new regulation is needed in order to bring the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is not currently in place. The draft proposal for a new law, which is now under the re-evaluation of the National Assembly, offers such a new regime, which is also fully comparable and in line with European standards. Let me recap some of the things I've already said and add some new ones. It is worth mentioning Protocol C of the European Communities to the Amsterdam Treaty, which gives Member States of the European Union the full freedom to organise and finance the public service in the field of radio and television. Because countries have different traditions and these dictate their own model of public television that best reflects their economic, social, cultural, historical and other realities. Nevertheless, the experience of each individual and common experience has led in the majority of the European Union to the establishment of organisational models that are both specific and mutually comparable. This is therefore the result of learning in individual countries, both those with a longer democratic tradition than those with shorter ones, but it is common for all to respect mutually agreed democratic rules and standards. Of the 25 members of the European Union, 23 Member States have almost identical organisational arrangements for the appointment of governance bodies. The only difference is whether the governing bodies are appointed by the Parliament, the government or the competent minister. So, as some of us see, we have in the European Union, not public, but only state television. I guess that's not the case. On those three RTV houses that some have tried to show us as an example in the EU, it remains reasonable to suspect in Europe that funding is no longer in line with the recommendations of the European Commission. In particular, it should be noted that the new bill pays particular attention to minorities, Italy and Hungary, thus providing for a step forward in the exercise of their autonomous position. We were also able to read in the media that the new law would reject research journalism in our country, on the contrary. I believe that we do not have enough of this, a new law, and I stress again and again, provides journalists with complete autonomy. The fact is that the best truly autonomous, courageous, critical research journalists who have opened up covert but important topics in a wide variety of areas in recent years do not express a rejection of the new proposal for the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. Apparently, they're not afraid that the new law would take away their autonomy and the opportunity to explore journalism. Of course, we might ask ourselves why there has been less research journalism in the last four years; probably not because of a new law that is not yet in existence. On the other hand, one would expect a journalist or journalists who so care about the autonomy and impartiality of Radiotelevision of Slovenia to protest against the editorial policy of an officer in whom they serve bread, because this officer was not impartial when he accompanied every step of a foreign paternalist giver to our government, but he did not publish to civil society, which he likes to refer to, but he published his message in the shortest possible summary. Strange standards, strange morals. The perceptions of the proposalr's poor intentions speak more about the spiritual context of those who share the obvious, as they insist on the current legal regime of Radio Television of Slovenia, as perseverance only means to maintain the unregulatedness, irresponsibility and lack of transparency in a public institution that has 3 billion and 100 million debts and deals with the trading of shares and the conclusion of 10 billion transactions with which the public is not fully aware, even though it is a matter of funds and resources that go so far from the pockets of citizens who pay RTV contributions. This is extremely inappropriate, unacceptable to a public institution and to extremes irresponsible, which is possible after the law in force, when responsibility is completely incomprehensible. Those who report bad intentions to the new law's proposer actually want to maintain the mismatches of the existing law with the constitution, they want to fish in mud with, as they have publicly identified and recognised visible members of opposition parties, the undiscovered political influence on RTV Slovenia or, as he publicly supported, this preservation of political influence by one of the members of the opposition party, saying that they want to take RTV Slovenia back. If they want - and I believe myself - to have a clear picture of how this public agency works, how much an RTV program costs, what is the financial situation, where they will actually join the funds from the stock trade, so, from the business of which the public institution should not be engaged. If viewers and viewers want a better program, then the new law on RTV Slovenia is necessary and necessary. The proposal for a new law is therefore not only European comparable, but it provides a basis for the possible public broadcasting of Slovenia to work successfully and in the well-being of the Slovenian public. I believe that the National Assembly will adopt a new proposal for the law of RTV Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Ms Marjetka Uhan, Nova Slovenija has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u10	Well, hello, everyone in the hall! Again, we have a proposal for a law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia due to the demands of the State Council. Public presentation of opinions and multiple hearings in the National Assembly have contributed to the improvement of the proposed law. Discussions included requirements for impartial reporting and comprehensive information on important events and requests for autonomy and independence for journalists. Since this is a public institution paid by citizens, it must work both programmely and financially for their benefit. I'm only going to touch some of the news in the marriage that's important. The Council of Workers of RTV has been established and a representative of the Council of Workers will always be invited to attend the meeting of the Programme Council and will provide the staff's views on the material under consideration. The main novelty of this law is a specific national programme aimed at the transfer of meetings of the national assembly, the world, labour bodies as well as all activities of Parliament. Voters have the right and desire to be informed of the legislative authority in its entirety and not only of individual cuts or extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. Through direct and complete transmissions of meetings, users will be able to create a comprehensive picture of the functioning of Parliament and of the people they have chosen. New in marriage are the composition and tasks of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. Politicians, leaders and senior civil servants cannot run and be members at the time of political or managerial functions at least five years later. In the programming world, 16 members will be invited by audiences and viewers of RTV programmes to a public call: universities, universities, societies, chambers and others. This gives all users, citizens, the opportunity to run directly for the Programme Council, and at this point also includes those groups represented by the State Council, only to be able to run directly and not through an intermediary. They will be confirmed by the National Assembly. The National Assembly will also confirm the five members by a majority of the votes of all the Members appointed by the political parties. There is a possibility that candidates come from different regions, and this seems perfectly normal to us. Three additional members will be proposed by RTV employees, two members of the President of the Republic on a proposal from religious communities, one member appointed by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts and one Hungarian and one Italian national community. We believe that the programming world is broad enough and open to all representatives of civil society. In New Slovenia, however, we expect people to be proposed and elected to the world who have already demonstrated their knowledge, reputation and achievements in society and who will, of course, become acquainted with the work and conduct of public television. The key novelty in the new law is that members of the Programme Council will have to consider and take into account the opinion of viewers and listeners, not as one of the participants in the public presentation of opinions that the current RTV has forgotten to communicate with the public. The Programme Board will elect a Director-General on the basis of a call for proposals to be made for the programme management and financial operations of the Institute. By selecting the director of the radio and the director of television and by the confirmation of the programme editors, the Director-General shall have the option of selecting people to ensure the effective functioning of the public service, to ensure the legality of the business and to realise the expectations of public media consumers. This gave him greater authority than he had before, but also greater responsibility. The 11-member Supervisory Board of the Institute shall be given a role that normally belongs to the supervisory authorities. It shall adopt the statute of the institution, be in charge of the financial and programme work and monitor the legality of the business. The proposed law does not directly affect the work of journalists, we do not stop them from being independent and autonomous, but of course we expect them to report impartially and comprehensively and not impose their opinions or promote intolerance. In New Slovenia, we will once again support the proposed law. We think it's good for users to get a chance to cooperate and design a public RTV. As has already been said, we expect regulated operations, transparent finances, the Director-General's responsibility in the legality of business, as well as the professional and professional design of radio programmes for the benefit of listeners and viewers. Public RTV is intended for users. With the new law, we will give them the opportunity to cooperate and shape the image of this so important medium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. A respected minister, a respected member of the Council of State, a respected colleague and colleague. From the explanation of the State Council, which voted veto on the Radio Television Act, we can state that their comments relate to two content sets discussed in the proposal for a law on Radio Television of Slovenia. For the first time, on the structure or appointment of members of the public service programme board, and for the second time, to deal with the financing of local, regional and student radio programmes with a status of special importance. This is certainly a very important package on the law on RTV, but in the Slovenian People's Party it bothers us that in adopting the decision on re-decision of the National Assembly on the proposal for a law, the State Council has ignored the fact that, on the basis of the existing law, the public institution Radiotelevision Slovenia has been in serious financial and organisational difficulties. This seriously threatens his mission and has a negative impact on the stability of public broadcasting, ratings and the quality of programming content. We are amazed at the proposal of the State Council that it should have its representatives in the Programme Council of the Public Institute of Radio Television of Slovenia. This is the contradictory thinking of the State Council, which rightly states that the nature and competences acquired by the proposal for a new law by the RTV Slovenia Programme Council indicate the need for the representation of non-political, civil and professional interests in the decision-making of the central public media. However, this finding is certainly sufficient for the solution in the proposed RTV Slovenia Act, Article 17, which provides for the possibility of 16 members of the Programme Council being proposed by viewers and listeners, thus covering the widest possible number of applicants. Certainly wider than if there were representatives of the Council of State in the Programme Council, who are only representatives of the interest groups. At the stage of the examination and coordination of the law, we particularly warned the Slovenian People's Party about the need for greater representation of local and regional interests in the programme world. Thus, on our proposal, we have adopted an amendment to Article 17, paragraph 6, on the home working body, which makes it perfectly possible to represent local interests with the provision that the regional representation of various parts of Slovenia should also be taken into account when appointing members of the RTV Programme Board. This certainly provides an opportunity for the decentralisation of this body, which indirectly contributes to greater political neutrality. As a second reason for vetoing the RTV Act, the Council of State stated that this law does not include financing of local, regional and student radio and television programmes with a status of special importance, which should be implemented by means of 3% of the RTV contribution. Such an amendment was also tabled by the Slovenian People's Party in the coordination phase, which was withdrawn for two reasons. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, such an amendment would be constitutionally controversial. Therefore, it seems to me that the insistence of the State Council on the inclusion of local and regional radio and television programmes with a status of special importance in the law on RTV, non-compliance with the law. The second reason why we removed this amendment from the home labour force was that governments ensured that the financing of local and regional RTV programmes would be addressed in the media law. The Minister of Culture has kept his word and so we have a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the media law already on the parliamentary benches. The explanation of the proposal states that local and regional RTV programmes are an important complement to national RTV programmes and that their funding will be provided through the Media Fund, for which it will be necessary to provide adequate funding annually from the State budget. In the Slovenian People's Party, in the national world, with arguments on the basis of which they vetoed the law on RTV, they have not convinced us in any way, so today we will vote again for the adoption of the law on RTV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u14	Mr. Anderlich, if you'll allow me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u15	Please, Mr. Saša Peca and no one else has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u16	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. According to the assessment and the position of the Slovenian National Party's delegation group, it is necessary to draw on the period or 1994. From that time when the basic was written, so far a roofing law on radio television. Back then, the situation in our country, especially in the media field, was completely different than it is today. Almost one medium dominated it. And, of course, the legal basis was also appropriately written. But as the years changed, our country modernised, this is the Republic of Slovenia, and the media area expanded and took a few steps further. So this is the basic reason why in our country we need a new, better, better quality, and especially a more timely law. According to our assessment, all three elements, i.e. the structure of the media, the element of the number of media and, above all, all other components, have changed to such an extent that legislation needs to be amended in this area, that is, roof legislation. And if we come from the need for modernisation, within the Slovenian National Party's Group we have also tried to amend the law according to our assessment where it is most necessary. This is in the field of quality information for citizens and citizens and citizens. Thus, in all stages of the law, we have amended the law mainly in that direction in order to provide the necessary 3% for the financing of certain programme content. Sorry we didn't make it. The Minister has assured several times that the appropriate content that will meet the requirements of the amendment signed by Sreč Friend, the Slovenian National Party, will be filled in by law in the media. For now, we can believe it or not, but it is true that the minister has promised it. At least in the context of the debate of the National Assembly and where the debate is even more in-depth, and in our opinion less objective, i.e. in the media, there is a constant, there is one and the same issue that is being launched this time, this is the issue of the politicisation of the RTV house. I believe that I will not be wrong if I say that this house has always been politicized, once by the former ruling majority and twice, or I believe it will be different this time. But those who hope to claim today that with the amendment of the law we will introduce exclusively politics into the house, this "fucking" is wrong. Which means he doesn't know that politics in that RTV house has been present since 1994. If anyone can safely stress this, we are representatives of the Slovenian National Party, who have absolutely never had an impact on the programme, content, anything, we can also say personnel, in the context of the RTV house. The best example of this and our assessment is that, in this year's talk on the EU's Constitutional Treaty, where programme workers of the Radio Television of Slovenia decide who they will invite, whom they will not invite to present their views on the European Union's Constitutional Treaty, positive and negative positions, they will decide not to invite the only political parties in the Slovenian political space, the parliamentary space that opposed the European Treaty. How can the viewer then create an image if on RTV Slovenia they decide not to invite even those who have always been euro skeptics or otherwise, euro realists. How the viewer gets the real picture. So much for politicizing the RTV house. And once again, it is naive to think that politics has not been present since the very beginning in this extraordinary, extraordinary, especially politically extremely interesting institute. In the following we need to do, at least according to our assessment, and we have made a step away from political egoism. According to our assessment, it is necessary to monitor another moment brought by the novelties of this law. So whether citizens and citizens will be better informed on the basis of the new law or not. If you will be able to skip this political egoism and only fight for a minute within the various information or entertainment shows, and if we will have exclusive consideration or satisfaction of the interest that information such as perform, is unchanged, not in one political party or another, and if we will assess that this law brings this novelty, then it is necessary to accept it. And according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, it can hardly be worse than it was with regard to the provision of information. On the other hand, two to three matters need to be highlighted in this area. According to our assessment or our decision, the decision of the Slovenian National Party will be based on some pluses and minuses. First, at the wish of some of you individuals in this house, the State Assembly sitting here today in the plenary room has created, according to our assessment, a very unfair or very unfair view of the State Assembly. That's because it's a house of hate speech. It's that it's a house of xenophobia, that's that it's a house of evil people, that it's a house of uncultivated people. But it is the political interest of individual political groups to create such a view in the public. And in doing so, the existing RTV house has been very helpful. But it has helped with this individual political option, or two who cannot possibly accept that they have lost decisive influence and that they are looking for something to complement the appropriate media space. And since they're doing this the cheapest way, that's to try to get their own house, the state council to get it all out. I don't think that's supposed to happen. According to my assessment, this kind of political game should not be followed by Radiotelevision Slovenia. According to our assessment, this will, hopefully, be at least partially over. This is a good reason for the marriage to be supported in this so-called fourth phase. On the other hand, what has been exposed several times by colleagues of Boštjan Zagorec and Lucky Friends is that it is a pity that we have not taken a major step forward as far as financing specific programmes are concerned. Therefore, the three percent funding that would allow individual programmes with a specific content to be financed through this mandatory tax, which in the end is also the payment of RTV contributions. So the decision of the National Party will be in the hands of individuals. Each of the Members will decide individually, which means we do not want to adopt a unified political position and thus influence the House's programme. One of us, therefore of the Members of the Slovenian National Party, strives for objectivity. And this objectivity, according to our assessment, will be satisfied with the so-called new programme, where - those who are of course interested - citizens and citizens will be able to see what is happening in Parliament, where they can actually absorb information as it has been given, and not such information as has been given at the request of the LDS or the United List - that is, distorted information. Information that will be strongly underlined by so-called attributable xenophobia, intolerance and similar things. My decision will be for the marriage. Just because it seems to me that it is more than a sin for some to try the entire program of the party, the whole content of their client, to base or strengthen on the lies it utters and later, through their connection, to put them in fragments into the media, in passages that are, of course, ripped out of context. According to our assessment or my assessment, this kind of program will no longer be possible to politically manipulate what you have done successfully, not only in the last six months since you lost power, but what you have done since 1994, from the basic, fundamental, fundamental law in this area. However, as I have said, at least as far as I have spoken with Members within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, many of my colleagues are concerned that the law is not even better than it is. That the law is not enough for that, let's say one more important piece of work, that's three percent of the funding. Those Members will lead the decision against the law. And allow me to finally touch upon the demands of the State Council as an institution, which, at least within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we do not attribute any credible legislative function. According to our assessment, the State Council is one of those institutions that is solely dedicated to itself and may also be designed to develop thinking about exceptional democracy in our country, as we are, of course, all the best on average, between citizens and citizens. But the confirmation of these words, I think, is also the basic argument of the state world, what bothers them. It is unacceptable to them or to them that they do not have an impact on the design of the programming world. It's a very selfish criterion. Without being disturbed by anything of the utmost importance in this law, it is not, but only by not having an impact on the design of the programming world. As far as the demands of the Council of State are concerned, it must be said that we have been trying for a long time in the National Party that the Council of State should be abolished at all; that there should be a clear division of power, i.e. exclusively to legislative, executive and judicial matters. In order to know clearly what the legislative procedures are in our country and not to mix components or mix players in the legislative process. So, we cannot bow to the position of the State Council in the National Party or give it right. If we chose a different path, maybe. According to our assessment, this voted veto within the framework of the State Council and sent to the National Assembly is just another proof that the Council of State is an institution that cares solely for its own interests and not for the interests through which it was established, i.e. for the interests of employees, employers and other segments in our society. However, as I have said, the decision of the Members of the Slovenian National Party is in their hands. But I will personally support the amendment of the law because of the need for objectivity in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Genius, DeSus.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u18	Dear Mr. Minister, President, colleagues and colleagues! The Democratic Party of Retired Persons will support the law because after ten years it has taken changes and additions that the electorates will finally decide on because we have heard that the referendum is being announced. According to the public debate, he has a bad trip. It is also not a good traveller to the procrastination veto of the State Council because it is possible to challenge and challenge the arguments on which the veto is based. I am saying this because our expectations that the law will have at least some substantial correction have not been fully realized. In this regard, our Group is fortunate that, with the support of this law, it will not work in conflict with the party's programme, in which other content is more important to us. Our electorate is mostly watching television, and they are particularly interested in what the program is and how much it costs, and less in who sits in the world of the RTV public house and which authority controls it. We hoped that regional coverage would take place in the programming world, as proposed by the Slovenian People's Party. In this regard, we have later been assured that this weakness can be mitigated if the selection of the members of the Supervisory Board is not remedied. It is also unusual for the Supervisory Board to have management and supervisory powers at the same time. With regard to the financing of the local media for which we wanted to get rid of this law, we have been assured that it will be resolved in a special law already prepared. So we think that at least this flaw is covered in this way. The proponent says the law is good, and we don't think it's great. Because it's about television, it's going to show up soon. The message to the electorate that the law is good is also understood as a promise to voters with whom it is not a joke. DeSUS is a coalition party whose Members we are in this Chamber because of those outside for whom we want to do something. That is why we will support the law because we estimate that it is not so important that we place on board the coalition and the goals that we want to achieve for the people in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u20	Oh, that's a good-bye again. First of all, to refresh the memory of why the proposal for a new law actually came into existence. You will all remember that, in its justification, the government has warned of developments that should be taken care of by every democratic individual in this country about the events on RTV Slovenia in the past period since 1994, when the existing law on RTV Slovenia was in force. First of all, she drew attention to something that was incompatible with democracy, attempts at censorship on public television. The most famous example of this, you all know well, an attempt to prevent the broadcast of the Silencers, the power of survival of Mr. Jožeta Možina. And since this author later received the highest recognitions for this show, it is obvious that this experiment was ideologically or politically motivated. Later, there was a lot more going on. You all know that the editors followed the instructions to the LDS ministers. For example, when Mr Gerič prepared a report on how the LDS government then cheated on the aircraft, the editor, after consulting one of the LDS ministers, of course, tried to prevent this demonstration and, in fact, succeeded in the central diary. Later, though, because of another well - founded resistance to journalists, he had to let go, and this news, which was undoubtedly important to taxpayers because it was their money, was seen by the light of the world. Similarly, when it comes to individual referendums, it is known that there are substantive decisions when voters and voters are left to decide directly on the content of each policy on the basis of the information received. Even then, editors from RTV Slovenia, i.e. those who should take care of television independence, went back to RTV Slovenia as directed by LDS ministers. For example, when it came to a referendum on the fertilisation of healthy single women, the responsible editor of the information programme did so and then enforced these instructions that he received from LDS into the programme, which even led to the resignation of the head designated for the conduct of the broadcast or the confrontation during this referendum campaign. With the amendment of the law in 1999, the LDS also went a long way towards the rights of journalists, in short, of all those involved in the establishment of the programme, because it took away the possibility of their consent in the procedures for the appointment of key persons, i.e. responsible editors. Then, or a year later, as a journalist of RTV Slovenia and the leader of the then Association of Journalists, Mr Uroš Slak wrote in Del: "LDS has thus proved to be the only party in Slovenia who wants and establishes government radio television." It is interesting that the two who were then ministers and secretaries of state and who proposed and defended such grave interventions, gross interference in journalistic rights in this National Assembly, and have now been unendingly loud in the past months to defend press freedom, which is very interesting. Otherwise, over the years, a person can change. But it's important. Look, in the last few days, the whole opposition has just moved, moving where it's most important. The first important step was taken by the President of the Social Democrats, the former United Nations List, Mr Borut Pahor. And he pointed out that the situation created by the current law on RTV Slovenia is by no means compatible with the democratic concept of public broadcasting. In a letter sent to the President of Liberal Democracy, he wrote: "When you are agitating among the people for the referendum, remember, dear Tone, what a great influence your client - LDS - had on them all the time in transition, with or past the law." These state words, which for the first time allow the situation in Slovenian media to be named by everyone with the right expression, of course also replied to Mr. Rop and he wrote back that the president of the party belonging to Pahor, or as he literally wrote, "when they wrote that the former president of the political party was at the head, they did not think of my client." This sincere recognition is very important because it allows things to be named by the right name, and so it is also looking for the right solutions. Unfortunately, it was then accompanied by the words of one of the fellow Members of Parliament that it was Grims’ stupidity. But unfortunately, I was just quoting the words of the presidents of both parties, and my words could not have been any smarter or dumber than their words, because it was an exact quote. However, I am sure that this colleague was not disturbed by the fact that the words are more or less clever, but by the fact that the truths have been told. Because the truth, as we know, sometimes hurts. It is certainly clear from this that it is not only our right, but that it is even the constitutional duty of the government and Parliament to do everything to ensure that citizens and citizens are given a more objective view. This is said to give full effect to that constitutional right to comprehensive information, to information which will therefore be illuminated from different sides. And this is what the government wanted to do, and so it proposed a law that has already been passed in an updated form. If anyone still doubts, it would have reminded us of the debate just a few hours ago, when it was said in this national council on corruption. Now let me ask you a question. See if, under the cover of civil society, the president or former president of a political party could have been elected twice at the head of public broadcasting - is that not pure political corruption? And if RTV is the head of the key body of the RTV Council, which also decides on finance, is the person who is also the leader or head of the Olympic Committee, who also works in business with public broadcasters - is that not systemic corruption? And if there is someone at the head of the supervisory authority who should oversee it, someone who is the director of one of the "media pools" - isn't that systemic corruption? However, even if it is not, it is an obvious conflict of interest, a conflict of interest when a person is entangled between the interests of the two different organisations to which he belongs, and this conflict of interest will be completely removed under the new law, because such a situation under this law will no longer be possible to establish. From this point of view, the new law is highly European comparable, as Europe also requires conflicts of interest to be removed. In addition, the European law is comparable and is only appropriate in terms of clearly distinguishing between what is public service - and can therefore be financed from the money of the RTV contribution subscribers or payers - among other things, which is a market activity from which the programme can also be financed, this is allowed to public broadcasters and, by no means, cannot be channelled from the subscription to market activities, as this puts all other operators on the market that are engaged in the same business in an unequal position. The current solutions in this existing law, which is now in force, are not appropriate in this respect. Similar solutions are brought against some countries before the EU institutions, including Germany, if you want, which in some parts has a very similar death law like ours. For this reason, it is also essential that a new law be adopted and implemented as soon as possible. The third reason, of course, is of a constitutional nature. I would remind you that the Constitutional Court has found that the current existing law on RTV Slovenia is in breach of the Constitution because it did not regulate the issue of workers' councils. This is also properly regulated in the new law, a text that has been proposed by the public broadcasters on their own in the world of workers, which has now been questioned at all times. This is said, even in this part, the government has fully followed the wishes and needs of those most sought by this law, i.e. the need for public broadcasters. I would like to point out that this deadline for implementation is already in progress and that this is also the reason for the early entry into force of the new law. It is therefore crucial for the conduct of the SDS that we have a European comparable law, a law that will allow more democracy in this country, which will allow the media to be more open, allowing people to receive more information and enlightened by different things, and in particular in the SDS we are convinced that RTV Slovenia must never be organised again so that the debate between the presidents of the two LDS and SD political parties, which of these two are more politically controlled. Television must indeed be a real public broadcaster, i.e. of all citizens and citizens and with the same criteria for all. That is why, of course, we will support the law when we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirca, LDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u22	Dear Minister! International Press Institute, World Association of Editors, World Leadership Association in the field of media and top journalists, Southeast European Media Organisation, President of the Republic of Slovenia, European Television Association, Global Initiative for Freedom of Expression, Council of Europe institutions, Media Committee of the European Parliament, Peace Institute, with the majority professional, social and journalistic public, Slovenian centre of PEN. More than 1,200 signatories to the civil initiative for the previous legislative referendum with Mr Sedmak at the head, the association of programmes of particular importance with the Economic Chamber, the political party of the opposition, the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly. The veto of the state council. Everyone said no. All drew attention to the dangers of restricting the autonomy of the public media. Today is the last chance for reflection. Today is the last chance to stop everyone's judgment about the freedom of limited solutions outside the National Assembly. Otherwise, the weight of your responsibilities will be great. If we take away a series of substantive and technical comments and proposals that have failed in the process of adopting legislation, but with arguments, by the opposition, we can take the most important and unacceptable solutions into the next most controversial points. I will point out just a few; the way in which the members of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board are appointed, the inadequate delimitation of powers between the Programme Board and the Supervisory Board, is unclear and, I stress, the unique arrangements for the operation of the funding programme for the transfer of parliamentary meetings of the National Assembly and the unregulated operation of programmes with special significance status.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u23	Excuse me. Mrs. Shirca. Please, Mrs. Shirca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you. The contention of the composition and the appointment of members of the Programme Council and the exclusion of funding of programmes was also highlighted by the State Council. And that's what today is about. He replied that these programs, I'm talking about the latter, about so-called programmes, which we just called 'three percent programs'. In short, the state council received an answer, and everyone else, that these programs would be regulated by another law, the media law. In order to regulate the status of programmes of particular importance at local and regional and student levels, let us draw attention to the trap coming in the form of a media law. This is supposed to save what the law on RTV does not solve. These days, the government has sent an aether, an orbital message to some on the table that the issue of financing these programmes will be resolved in media law through the media fund. According to the opinion of those who have written about the proposal in public, the websites will, by chance, only after today's vote. In short, the funding of these programmes is to be decided by the body, with a parliamentary, political majority of the body to be appointed by the National Assembly of Kviaz. We believe that these programs will be controlled, too, it makes sense. The question is also how much resources will be available to them if the government will also finance printed and other electronic content in the future from this media fund, perhaps a new newspaper. And it is clear that he also wants to control the print media. This is evident from the events of all these days, especially yesterday. So much for the issue raised by the Council of State regarding known 3% for programmes of special importance not regulated by the RTV Act. And so much to warn those who have withdrawn the amendments with which this is supposed to be remedied. It will be taken care of, my well-respected colleagues, but under the control of the government. The second issue raised by the Council of State is about the politicalisation of the Programme Council. More than that. It also refers to the legal aspect of the appointment and design of this world. This has also been a matter of great concern to the State Parliament's legislative service, as well as to the Committee's report, and we have not heard about it today. In short, the legal aspect of naming this body is very important. The saints point to the same shortcomings as we have already warned ourselves. What will happen after hundreds of individuals are able to propose their candidates and address them to the National Assembly of Kviaz? I'm talking about candidates for the programming world. On what criteria will one candidate be better than the other? What will it mean, and what will it mean to be more credible than others? Who's going to be the judge? Is there even a need for a judge when a decisive political majority is that true judge? And then, dear colleagues, what proof will be given to those who will measure the choice? Cards, birth certificates, files? Or the archives next door, probably the neighbouring state-level offices, which are likely to be taken over by colleague Tavš, according to Mr. Drag Kos? If politicalization is at stake in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia when appointing members of the world, we do not want to take away the legal aspect that will lead to a complete handicap in the design of the programming world. Unless there is a known phenomenon in the design, or if the programming world is not shaped by a familiar formula, when a mathematical society proposes the right people and the right amount. And we know that for the creation of the Programme and Supervisory Council, the right amount is the one determined by the political majority. There is something else altogether that we have put forward on the Committee on Culture in the form of an offer and we repeat it today. That's when you didn't hear him. But today it is important to repeat it again, because, as the representative of the State Council would say, the National Assembly may even be able to settle. I agree. In short, the proposal put forward by the Peace Institute, which is designed with the help of analysts and experts in European systems, means that the 13 members of the Programme Council would consist of representatives of representative associations appointed in public, transparent and discussion of the process under consideration. Of course, in addition to other members, such as representatives of the SAZU, religious communities, universities, trade unions, journalists, etc. And RTV workers, of course. Your Honor! Today's vote will be a test of the maturity of democracy. You state that this law will allow citizens and citizens access to objective information and that it will allow for public broadcasting. Can something be public if it is in the hands of the political majority? Can something be public if it is manageable with political interest? Can something be public if it's controlled? Among the six requirements of the so-called citizens' initiative, something needs to be done that Janez Janša presented, I think that in March 2003, there was also one: "We demand a different scheme on national media by creating two programmes. One should be influenced by government electricity, the other by the opposition." That idea seemed mildly unusual to us at the time. That it was demagogous, however, confirms this law, which did not take this idea, even though it was then justified by the explanation that it was so regulated in some other European countries. The government of Janez Janša summed up something else. It summed up another model from which every European democratic society escapes. This is a model of one program, not two, it is a model of one program, one look and one look. This is a program that has an absolute impact on current or any current. And that's a model where television editors are transferred to the government. Your Honor! In fact, the new law moves RTV Slovenia from Kolodvorska to Gregorčičeva street. The office gets a new home. Not on Šubičeva, on Komensky, on Gregorčičeva, on Komensky, certainly not on Kolodvorsko. By the way, public television is already taking over. A new leadership is quietly formed. You know that. And the future members of the programming and oversight board are quietly gathered, and fear is already in effect. So the process is going on and we can still prevent it. You can also prevent it by voting today. We will try to make sure that this law is not passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the Social Democrats will vote against the adoption of the RTV Act in a re-decision. The re-examination and decision on the law on RTV is an opportunity for the government to give serious consideration to the content of the law, the professional and political polarisation that some of the solutions in the law have led to following a proposal made by the Government, the serious concerns which could have been expressed by the world public, journalists in Slovenia and representatives of international associations and civil society in the adoption of this law. Obsessing about all this in such a way as to say that they know nothing and that they have been whispered in their eyes is extremely ignorant. To think about why it insists on the proposed law, although it is clear that there would be a need for a greater consensus on the governance of public RTV in order to ensure it, which is a great deal of autonomy and independence. In the opposition and even in the government coalition, we claim to want to do so. Then why can't we find a common solution that would give each other something to make sure that this is true? No, you're proposing solutions that all the professions and all the press says will not increase the independence of public RTV. You're the only one who believes that, no one else. Is that enough evidence to change the law? Finally, it should be said that the composition and manner of the elections of the authorities in the institution could be used to create such a way of appointing supervisory authorities or administrations of the institution, so that they would not have a dominant policy impact, not to say the dominant impact of the current policy, those which rule at that time. It would be necessary to agree that when deciding and implementing the editorial policy, in particular its current political programme, RTV remains and is always able and ready to resist the daily political pressures and attempts of all political parties in order to ensure their greater impact and a more friendly image. The examples that have been told today can also take place. Many of us, I personally will not rule myself out, we have ever told a journalist that we would rather see more of our presence in the media. Whoever's wondering is a fat liar. He does not hope to admit that this is a constant practice of policy, but it is not "catch" in this. "Catch" is in the absence of a decision-making system in which policy decision-making will become dominant and in which the staff will be so compatible with the governing policy that they will no longer resist and say, forgive me, we have our criteria, we are also preparing a political programme under these criteria, and we are also assessing who is worth performing on public RTV and who is not worth it. So that there will remain journalists on RTV who will fight for independence, who will be willing to resist the pressures that will always be, are and always will be. In your laughter, dear ladies and gentlemen, I see you don't understand at all. Do you have such thick skin that you simply do not believe that this is real life, or are you so sure of your right that it is necessary to design such a television that will only tell you how good you are and how you are always right? Look at the way things have been going so far. True, there have been discussions as to whether the current law is good or not. And there was no one, even in this national assembly, not by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, including its president, who would say that the current law is good. But at the same time, there are fat lies, deceptions and even stupidity, who claim that our President said that there is no need for change, and that our President did not say that the proposed law is worse than the existing one. It is worse because it gives less rights and less independence to public RTV. And that's the correct view of the position. Not as unilateral as anyone likes and responds. Finally, it would be right for government parties who are warning now or, at the expense of the referendum, to consider whether it is now at the veto given by the State Council, whether the law should not be approved by 46 votes and whether a possible agreement by the ruling coalition and the opposition could be reached within a short period of time on how a prepared law could only be amended in some respects. For we know that the essence of where we differ is the method of election, composition and competence of the supervisory authorities. That the essence may be, or that we provide sufficient autonomy to the third programme, or that we want to do it for the state programme. And thirdly, or and in what way also to ensure the co-financing of specific student local and regional programmes. About everything else, there's no big difference. Only in this regard are there so many differences that it would be right to reconsider the law. I cannot understand that neither of these issues has been said by the government so far. Nor did it further substantiate the necessity of adopting such a politicized and controversial law. The objective can only be the immediate submission of public RTV. There can be no other way. The arguments put forward by the government in response to the State Council cannot, of course, satisfy this criterion. The government first shows that it does not know the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask and advise that counsellors on the constitutional issues of the Minister's coalition teach, as it is clear to the Council of State that because of some provisions of the law it does not agree with, it proposes a veto on the law in its entirety. Whoever has completed the first course of the Constitution and parliamentary arrangements knows what the situation is and that, given the situation of the State Council, he cannot do otherwise. That is why such a statement, recorded in the views of the government, is a disgrace and extreme ignorance, which otherwise applies to the whole process of enacting this law by the government and the ruling coalition. The Government then refers to the necessity of implementing the constitutional provision on the participation of workers in the management of the institution, but does not say that this provision is not disputed for anyone and that they would be prepared to implement it together in each law at any time. Furthermore, he does not think it would be nice if the State Council were a mediator for determining who the representative of civil society is, but he would be very quiet to now propose that the law is an intermediary for determining who the representative of civil society is, not just for five, but for all 16 of its members, a national assembly. So the National Assembly can be the middleman, the state world can't be. The National Assembly may be an intermediary for 16 members, state councillors for 5 not. This can be a position, just gather some smart, but a reasonable argument, not things to say that have no commitment. It is also right that the Constitutional Court does not allow a specific part of the contracting authority's contribution to co-finance the programme content of local, regional, student and non-profit radio and television programmes with special significance status. Read the Constitutional Court decision. It speaks of the fact that as long as the RTV contribution is intended exclusively for financing RTV, it cannot be re-analysed elsewhere with another law. However, if you consider Members and Members, for substantial reasons, to be necessary for a part of this contribution to the RTV Act to be intended for public programmes of the above-mentioned content, it is possible. That's how this decision needs to be read. And now it is proposed that part of this be devoted to local, student and regional programmes. These issues, not the embodiment of facts and the reversal of the content contained in the letters of both Presidents, should be addressed by a serious coalition. Maybe it's time. Perhaps the Prime Minister, who offered the deadline for the opposition to cooperate on issues of national importance, will only demonstrate to his Minister and members of the coalition that public RTV is not the prey of the winners in the elections, but rather one of the foundations of the democracy of our society, and propose that they sit at the common table, including with the opposition and civil society, and once again assess whether there is really no possibility of a substantively acceptable compromise. We social democrats are willing to participate. Perhaps, I hope not, the referendum will resolve these issues. Perhaps today's Constitutional Court decision regarding the Civil Servants Act will also give you an idea. If anything, he tells you that the current ruling coalition is not infallible. And it is worth it that there is a willingness to look for common solutions on issues where there are different views, not arrogantly, with a smile, without even being willing to listen to anyone, you continue to accept solutions that are controversial. I hope you don't have to look this way about this law either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you. See, Mr President, I have only a request whether the services could ensure that all Members and Members now receive the relevant judgment of the Constitutional Court. This is from February 2004, in which it was very clear that it is possible to share RTV only on the basis of an in-depth analysis that would prove that the funds withdrawn would not affect the independence of public broadcasting or the quality of the programmes, in cooperation with RTV Slovenia itself. If this is to be shared, it will be obvious that now the Member of Parliament who spoke has done exactly what he has been reading to others, has taken away the part that suits him, but has let go of what is really essential. And I'd really like to see if we can all get this on the bench so that everybody can get a clean wine all of a sudden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u29	Please. There's no replica. It was a procedural question. On request, I'll ask if that happens. There is a debate between Members and Members. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! Yesterday, the government prepared an answer to my parliamentary question concerning the involvement of NGOs in the drafting process. Its response is, the level of civil dialogue is not decreasing. The experience with the operation and the possibility of civil society having an influence on the drafting of the RTV Slovenia Act is disputing the government. My question and my judgment are by no means flat, but there is another proposal for marriage. Civil society was involved, but involved in the end, all ignorance, arrogance and paternalism of the ruling authorities and coalitions were evident because everything civil society had to say could not have affected the concept of law. Let me therefore again ensure that I take the veto of the Council of State for a moment to reconsider the appropriateness of this law and point out that I have proposed to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport at the meeting a decision which has pleaded not to vote in favour of this law and have the Government, in cooperation with the professional public and civil society, drawn up such a law that will in fact be made by RTV Slovenia or allow it to be a public service. This did not seem necessary to the drafters of the report or to mention it, so I have said this now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, member of the Council of State, colleague, colleague! We talk about this marriage very widely and for a long time. And that's right. However, many of the debates, which have been presented both in the National Assembly and in the various media, I think that they have gone through this path very thoroughly and that there have been many questions and dilemmas, including the different views and views of individuals, which is also right and normal. A lot of attention was given to Slovenian media, and we could read, look, listen. And in all the time that this debate is still ongoing, we are repeating ourselves in those matters that we have already mentioned in essence. At the time of admission to the National Assembly, I have not yet heard any additional new views or opinions from the opposition which would convince me that this is different, that this is better and so on. I am pleased with what Mr Minister has said several times because I, as well as the Slovenian People's Party, have taken a strong stand for those 3% of the RTV contribution to local, regional and student stations, because I think it is extremely important in Slovenia that we can listen to what we are interested in at the local level. And I made sure, on the basis of the government's position and the minister himself, that this is not part of this RTV law. And that was enough for me. I believe, and I am sure, that the Minister will give his word and we will resolve in the media law what is extremely important for my concepts, so that local and regional media, with special significance, can operate as well as so far or better in the local and regional areas, and that we can listen to those topics that are important for the inhabitants there. It is somehow indicated that this will also be taken into account in the media law. Today we are listening to the debate that has already been discussed, and these arguments somehow prove to all of us that the opposition has not found any new arguments, except for those old ones, which have been used a little bit, which is not good, what is bad. This seems like a bit of a waste of time to me today, because we're just repeating ourselves. And I'm also among those who, unfortunately, repeat some things. It is very important to me that the new law, which I believe we will confirm in the National Assembly today, guarantees what is very important: the autonomy and independence of Slovenian journalists. This is an important and essential message. With regard to the transfer of meetings, there were many speeches for and also against. I believe that's a step forward. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when these transmissions from the National Assembly take place, I believe that it will be good for us, too, that in our deliberations and positions we may give a message directly to our citizen, the electorate. Anyone who doesn't want to do this will just switch to another channel, second, third, fourth, fifth, tenth, no problem. Why not? We mustn't be afraid of that. We're just Members, we're politicians, let's take a look at everyone and we're on the lookout. And why not the entire national assembly? In this law, I think this parliamentary channel is one step more, how this voice can reach our citizen, our citizen, our electorate. But let him see what Members of the National Assembly are doing, what they are defending, what they are not defending, what they are supporting. It's democratic. As far as the composition of the institution's world is concerned. We wanted and somehow got part of it in this law, to be made up as regionally as possible, also with Dolenjska, Prekmurje, Gorenjska and Ljubljana in this world of institution. We have extremely capable people who, in this way too, can come to concrete things in the area of RTV, according to the words of decentralisation, which we very often hear about in the National Assembly. I believe that the dictatorship that is written there, when we call the world RTV, will be taken into account by the trainee and, finally, when we vote on it in the National Assembly, that this representation is truly Slovenian, national, as we want it, and I believe that many of us do. I would only end by saying, I wish this law - I believe that it will receive today's support, appropriate - much happiness on this path, that it will finally come this step forward so that citizens and citizens, for which we pay RTV contributions, can also get more. There's more to what I'm talking about. A little bit more will definitely have to make a new world, a new leadership of this RTV, which will also have to change a few things for the better, and I believe that this law is a good journey for him, so that he can also create these conditions. In the end, no marriage is so good that it could not be even better.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of re-decision on the law. Despite the fact that some will try everything not to adopt this law, I think they will not succeed, even though they will try everything. We can also expect a referendum that will burden the already burdened Slovenian country with 600 additional millions of Slovenian tolars through the money shed window, and they will not succeed at that time. The marriage will continue on television and on radio will begin to clean up what should have been cleaned long ago. But so far this has not been a success. Things were spinning around in a horizontal circle and they were giving each other a baton, the same people were staying in the same positions, the program was getting worse, the money was disappearing more and more, they were working on television, people who were doing nothing, about half of them were too, they had over 900 part-time employees who were connected in one way or another to the employees of the same house. They worked for the house this afternoon, for themselves, and for their products, they sold the same house and back. Investments were driven and led by the benefit of one and the same certain people. This one has to be over. And it's about time for this to end, and that's what this law will do. Despite the fact that in recent sighs some are still kicking and grabbing for those wooden parts of a sinking ship in order to stay on the surface, it is necessary to know that this matter will not succeed. When we look at the Council of State's decision on the veto, we also see that it is essentially nothing more than a solution to its own positions, because they require five members in the programming world. That's the main requirement. The other issue is that 3% will guarantee local, regional and student radio programmes, but it is only a farce, because today we all know that this initiative is unconstitutional. This will be regulated by the special media law promised by the Minister and the Minister has provided these funds for local, regional and student radio and television programmes. The only thing that would make sense would be to relax those around, I will immediately end up releasing those about half a billion funds for these local, regional and student radio and television programmes, which can be done now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Because I believe that any convincing of the coalition is in vain will be short. The obstruction of the opposition, the veto of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the signatures of the Members and Members for the referendum, I think all these instruments, the opposition to a legislative solution imposed by the Government's coalition, are enough to give the government an ideal opportunity now to listen to both the opposition and the State Council, and to try to restore dialogue with the interested professional public, civil society and not least the opposition in this national assembly, and in this way offer a more acceptable legal solution to the national assembly. A month or two of delays in the adoption of this law would not hurt anyone. The government, which by its very nature has a significant impact on all public institutions, including the public institution of RTV Slovenia, will therefore adopt Radiotelevision by means of a law which is so intensely enforced and not passed by everyone. If that were not the case, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would have listened at least to the state council and would not have again supported the law at today's meeting. With regard to these 3% for regional programmes, radio and television, the Social Democrats tried to resolve the embarrassment with the Constitutional Court's decision, with a special amendment, which unfortunately was not adopted in the third reading. Thus, the Minister of Culture must now resolve the matter by means of funds from the budget reserve and thus repay the public service debt of RTV Slovenia from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Tomaž Strabe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As with the number of potential candidates proposed for judges to the Minister of Justice yesterday, we are discussing a rather irrelevant matter today. The composition of the board of the institution in this case and the conditions for running shall be transparent. Those who have participated can also participate now, of course, some should not cooperate; the restrictions are even somewhat popular; in my view, they could be the ones originally proposed. And in this sense, I do not understand some great euphoria and the problem with the fact that the democratic composition of the institution's world has increased. Those matters which have proved to be negative in current practice have been limited. All the fears cited now will only be justified when, after the adoption of the law and when this world is formed, if the matter in practice is leaked in the direction of fear, as you state in the opposition. The fact is that everything you say has happened in practice under the terms of the current law. I don't understand because I'm a new member of this national council, so extreme, I don't know, it's a nice word, you're kidding about something. If we compare arguments and weigh them, there's obvious progress here. Yesterday's case, I'm kind of surprised by the profession or the work of a more rational person, the technique, that in such obvious matters, there's so much to be spent on a debate that's unnecessary. That's how I support the solution. I think that it is significantly better than it is now, and practice will only be better because of the mechanisms that can be installed. However, I hope that it will be significantly better and that such abuses and impacts, as mentioned in these discussions, will not occur. And I want a good future for this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must say that, of course, it is an incredible debate by a colleague who talks about political policy and political influence, which is a political official, who has been paid by a political party or as a consultant to a parliamentary group and is the President of the RTV House Supervisory Board. Such discussions on credibility and politicisation do not, of course, withstand water. Otherwise, I am still optimistic, and I hope that the majority will nevertheless decide to allow and give the opportunity and opportunity both to the general public and to the lay public to further strengthen, aggregate, support some of the not good solutions in the adopted law. The difference in political influence is to have a political influence, as most have said, or, of course, to take the institution as political property and to run this institution politically. I'll tell you for a minute. It is a kind of programmed bankruptcy procedure, when in a cheap way it gets into the political property of the RTV institution every time a government coalition. And I will try to explain this to those who do not understand on two occasions of the Programme Supervisory Board. In the case of appointments, the public will be affected when the National Assembly calls for them to report. However, when elected from this broad choice by the Commission, it will be chosen in the manner and method of work it now uses. Two when it comes to content. The solutions contained in this law in relation to these two bodies are the worst within this law. The Programme Council will only have the function of a debate club under its competence, and the Supervisory Board also has almost all the management functions and all the competences that follow them in addition to the supervisory function. But this is not a major sin, although it is already a sin here, but out of the 11 members of this supervisory council, 9 of them are once again referred to as the ruling government coalition. Now let me ask one person if this is not an attempt when it is public, so far public, television has become one of the government's services or the government's office, as it is, I don't know, the office for equal opportunities or the service of government services that I'm not speaking to earlier. I'm stressing again. It's not just a misunderstanding or a different understanding. The intention of the proponent and those who advocate this law is quite clear: to make public RTV TV government TV. And once again, every single ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. When we are talking again today about the new law to regulate RTV, public broadcasting, when the foundations of independent public RTV are being built, some here from the opposition are being undermined by the world, literally. This propaganda machine produces new and new fictional arguments every day to maintain its positions and its pressure on the public media. I understand that. In fact, as I mentioned yesterday, it is in some ways the fall of Bastille. That these centres of power, which will absolutely maintain their influence, will no longer have an absolute impact, but will eventually receive political independent public television and radio. Why is it that some people here are torn down by the world? Look, the best evidence is what it says, "Dear Borut, dear Tonet." And let them also listen to dear Majdi and their colleagues, once again, what is written by dear Borut. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] I mean, we have two Majes, and their colleagues here are also the most passionate Writes dear Borut: "When you advertise among people for the referendum and for the independence of the media, remember dear Tone, what a great impact your client has had on them throughout the transition." [[...]] [[...]] Indeed, you had absolute influence, absolute power throughout the transition. By doing so, I do not criticize journalists who were victims of this absolute political power, who often had to correct against their will written contributions that had to be self-censored and subordinated to political pressure. And this frankly written sentence on the political impact, under the feathers of Borut Pahor, is extremely transparent. And I don't know why you can't analyze it in your own client. Why the addressees of this letter are unable to analyze it and say yes to the Slovenian public, it is true. We've had it so far, something has to be changed. And this change is on the table today, and it's making you so terrible. Look, and I'm even more surprised that on behalf of civil society, so-called, some are so-called civil society, today the biggest screamers are those who, 15 years ago with the same scale and with the same horror, accepted that some want to have a multi-party system to break the democracy they swore on at the time that was most perfect for them. With the same horror and the same scale, those same screamers used to say that. What did a change of democracy bring us? An independent state. Big success. Where all of Slovenia came from. And in the same way, I can assure you that if television and radio are independent, then this company will move on. It will achieve even greater success. This Slovenian society, based on the political censorship you had in hand, has not done many times what it could have done, what it was able to do. If the new law offered only this to the current opposition, this parliamentary programme, it would be accepted by all normal state opposition with both hands by any normal opposition. Because it is an institution of opposition, a transfer from Parliament. But you're against all four because the current system, the current impact on TV, provides you with significantly more. And I think that I once heard the director of RTV that with the current law there is no economic, no other way to regulate the situation on RTV. No director got lucky, I don't deny them good intentions. But actually what was said. I don't know how many hundred fees you don't know what they're doing, and so on. This cannot be regulated under the current law. It is even less possible to prevent this political influence, which is recognised by two leaders of the opposition parties, by the current law. Once again, if we were sincere about the fight against corruption, we would be looking forward to this parliamentary programme. But, of course, there is no better means than the provision of international institutions, such as a direct transfer from Parliament, where representatives of different parties directly show a mirror of every time. But it also pains you, because corruption carriers are now necessarily coming from your species, most of the time. That's just the system. And another detail of why you are so afraid: when television is independent when, on the basis of the widest possible proposal, there is a different programming world and more independent television, it is likely that such television will also say something about so-called civil society institutions that are declared a civil society, which are highly funded and run through political options and power centres. Like the Peace Institute. We all know that there are all the politically colored manifestations that do not have much in common with them, are absolutely independent politically and are highly uniformly coloured. And, of course, now nobody's saying anything critical about it. How they are promoted, how they are sponsored, who is behind it. No one says about this direction, the famous, "Rolling on the stage." When he uses money from the Red Cross and sits there every week, some gentleman who took a couple hundred million from the Red Cross and sat there next to him. Yeah, that's gonna have to be written down sometime. Their product is so-called hanging humor, which is strictly politically oriented. But if someone else says something a little bit more, it's a hate speech from Parliament. There's nothing hostile about other people's speech. And that. When Shirca's colleague wondered what the criteria for choosing what the evidence would be, I think the public appearances of those who would run would also be. For me, for example, it will be a criterion for him to know Slovenia. That she could not say, like a colleague who claims to be a professional, she said that she was an Ljutomer Prekmurje and that Karl Grossman was a Prekmurec and so on. I think it's an exclusion criteria, for example. Slovenia needs to be known, and then it needs to be declared professional. And, look, there's this. You have read that the then opposition, which is now a government coalition, required two television programs at the time. We knew you didn't want to cancel the absolute impact on the first program. At the time, such a proposal was logical. Today we are doing political independent television because it is much better than two political programs with influence. We want to make modern, independent, European comparable television. And you are also aware of this with all the fuss you make, that people also get to know more every day, that they want a good television program, transparent, economically rational, without going billions and billions into some projects, as has happened in the past when there were no results. And that will also decide at the referendum if you produce it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In my belief that the law we are talking about today means great progress, great improvement, of course, I am surprised to hear so many objections on the other side. Why, I wonder. To get an answer, I first asked myself some questions. First of all, does RTV, which still operates under the current law, work successfully, economically? No, no, no. Despite a stable source of funding, despite the resources that many institutions would have wanted, they are digging into large losses. However, we know that the loss in public institutions is borne by the founder, the state, in which case also by taxpayers who have already paid [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Please, Mrs. Shirca, I listen when you talk, and you listen when I speak. But they've already paid such a fair price for the subscription. I wonder if the interests of different regions are also represented in the world. Is this regional representation ensured? No, no, no. If we look at the composition of the world, there is virtually no representative from individual parts of Slovenia, let it be from this or any other group. The new law provides that out of 29 members, 16 members will be elected in some way also on the principle of regional representation. I wonder if anyone has noticed that the current law was contrary to the Constitution or still is. Finally, the Constitutional Court found this to be the case. This law was not in accordance with the Constitution because it did not allow employees to participate in management. And that obviously didn't bother anyone. Today, when the government wants to end this unconstitutional situation by means of a new law, of course, shouting and screaming again. I just can't understand these things. I wonder if there are clear and appropriate tasks and responsibilities within the institution at the present time. Does the Director have a chance to lead this by calling it a company, as manager, that he will be successful economically and otherwise. No, no, no. As I mentioned earlier, the company is in business with a loss. Low quality programs, ratings dropping, etc. However, the RTV Council primarily deals with the sale of shares, as if it were a company of merchants, as if it were not the basic task of the institution itself in its entirety to provide credible and impartial information. Another question: Does the existing law prevent members of the world from being political party officials? And here's the answer no. The Council even leads a politically fully profiled person, who has led a very important political party for some time in her time. And so to say today that we have a public TV that we are turning into a state TV, it seems completely unfounded to me. We've got a client's TV today. It is true that two parties cannot agree between each other, from which this institution is more or less. And not public TV. But we want this law to finally get one political independent and actually public TV in Slovenia that will serve all citizens and citizens. That is why it seems to me that the law is perfectly appropriate for adoption and, of course, I will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u46	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'll stop at that 3% first. The Constitutional Court ruled and proposed that a solution be found for this 3% or that a solution be found to finance local and regional television and radio stations, or today it is of particular importance. You promised to solve this, something was even happening, so, thank you so much for all of these. The other thing is the money that RTV has collected so far on this account. Since last year, she has raised her subscription by 3% because she will have to finance local and regional radio and television stations. And of course, this money now needs to be returned to viewers and viewers, or all those who are described as consumers of electricity. I hope that's what's going to happen. Second thing. In the beginning, the minister said that we insist on the current law. That's not true. No one in all this time has talked about how good the present marriage is. The amendment is also proof that we want to make changes and that in many ways we agree with the assessment of the situation of public broadcasting in Slovenia. But it is also true that we do not agree with how this issue is resolved in the present law. We don't see bad intentions, we see bad intentions. The fact that this current European law is comparable is, of course, a phrase. Each thing is European comparable. Every thing can be compared to anything. I am more concerned that this law will prove to be Europeanly negligible, not Europeanly comparable. The next thing I was worried about at the beginning is obviously a pattern for the media law that comes about. It is said that for a marriage that will cover all the media and unify them and make all the media as it all appears that it will become Radiotelevision of Slovenia. We have a media law on our hands. I've reviewed everything, including the neighbors, I've gone under the bench, there's no media law. I don't know if only the chosen, certain, consecrated people saw it, but I really can't find it. It is very difficult to deny the impact of policy on the media in the previous period. I'm more concerned about imperceptible influences on the media. Also on RTV Slovenia. However, I am sure that this law, which we are considering today, will not cause a conflict between coalition parties, which will be more controlled by RTV. It is very clear which will be most controlled by RTV, and this will be bad for democracy. As long as there's a fight, who's more in control, it's okay until nobody's satisfied with the media, I think it's okay. I don't suppose it was you, not us. I tell you, I worked 20 years in the media, I was much less satisfied with politics than with politics with me. I was called to account in that system as well. And I'm still here. I'm more worried because no one's gonna call me. That's what happened, and something just happened to me. These are dangerous things. Dear Tone was also able to write off dear Borut. Now I am more concerned that some John will not be able to write to another John or to another Andrew. To make things one-way and one-way. Freedom is not just a word, and it is worth talking about today. That word means a lot. As far as Prekmurja's concerned, I liked it best. You know, it's all Prekmurje, they say Prekmurje, but it depends on which side of Mure you're on. And it's all Zasavje too, it just depends on how long we've been measuring these things. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Yeah. [[...]] That's where I found out. At the end of a very beautiful poem, the Grimm brothers had already worked there in the 19th century. From one of the fairy tales is this sentence that I'm going to adjust a little bit: "RTV, RTV, tell me, who is the most beautiful in this country?" And RTV said, My love, thou shalt know who thou art, that in this land, thou art the most beautiful, only thou canst. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has a procedural question, Mr Sok. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! I have a procedural proposal, namely, my colleague Grims suggested that we obtain during the session a constitutional court decision, a law on the media. I ask you to also provide us with a decision by the Constitutional Court regarding the law on civil servants. This is what Ambassador Potč spoke about. Indeed, it is true that this decision is already in the national assembly, but we have not yet received it from the parliamentary groups and it has not yet been published on the Constitutional Court's website. I therefore assume that Mr Potsch has received it through other channels, and therefore I propose that we receive it from all the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u49	Procedural, please. Mr. Squeakle. Mrs. Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me get this straight. Today, the Constitutional Court addressed to the signatories the requirement to assess the constitutionality of the Civil Servants Act in certain articles, and we have received this decision from the signatories. That's it. Normally they get the first signatories, they get the government's decision, and the Minister of Public Administration has also called a press conference at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. With regard to Mr Sok, I have not given you my word. [[...]] Please, procedurally, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u52	And that's what I have to protest and protest. At the same time, the text should be accessible to all parties in the procedure. That is to say, also to the National Assembly, which in this case passed the law. How, then, is it possible that we did not receive this?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I'm closing this, and could I ask you to calm down? [[...]] Mrs. Bebler. I would like to conclude by saying that this is not directly related to what we are currently discussing. That is why we will continue the debate on the law on RTV. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, the thorny path of this law, which has sparked much controversy and debate on the role and meaning of public broadcasting, is a public service that has developed a range of different views on this very important issue of eminent social policy, cultural and economic importance, this long path will not actually end in Parliament today if this law is confirmed. There's a referendum coming up. This new reference follows the first test, to which voters and voters will also be called, to decide what kind of law they want to have or whether they want to have the same law. Perhaps there is no need for this referendum to take place; I will say a few words about it. It is possible to reach some compromise and agreement that would be good for democracy and the media in Slovenia in general. Nevertheless, I would first like to say a few words about what has already been said, particularly in connection with the letters of the two dear presidents. Because so much has been said by the positions of the parties about the impact and how the two dear presidents are arguing about who had or had no influence on public television. That's what the minister mentioned. He's a minister, if I'm not mistaken, a historian, and he may be able to interpret this letter better and understand it in about ten years, I'm sure. Otherwise, this letter does not speak of who has a greater influence, but it does not make sense or need to talk about this effect. As far as LDS is concerned, I could only say that the readings on our account are quite out of the way and that they represent only a cover for an attempt at non-subsistence - I agree with Mr Hvauc before me - but the privatisation of television mainly by the ruling party is said to be the SDS. The LDS has never come from the LDS or the President of the Council or the Director of the Institute. We have never had a decisive or dominant influence in the LDS. If you look at the composition of membership and members, I was a member of the RTV Council myself for some time, for example, I voted for the appointment of Janez Jerovšek, but unfortunately I had to withdraw him later too, because the management was extremely unrealistic and they on all sides warned about this, left and right, please, let us do something to replace the Director-General so that the television would not really fail sooner than otherwise. Janez Jerovšek, Žarko Petan, two rather expressive policies from the right scene, even SDS, Janez Čadež, is also a politician who is close to the SLS, if I am not mistaken, now appointed to some supervisory committee, Alex Štakul, you will probably realize today after 8 months of rule that if there is nothing, then there is no LDS, and of course all of this shows that your words about how LDS ruled from the vine. After all, if we really had such a strong influence that we all recognize that public broadcasting plays a very important role, we would probably not lose the election if we really have such a huge impact on public television. Of course, we don't have it, and of course, it's just a cover to really take it now, not to support it, but to privatize it. In fact, with this law, which will be approved today, the LDS loses something they never had; and more than what they never really wanted. First of all, I would remind you that this composition of the world is the result of some reflections that all of us who wrote back in the 1980s had on what public television should be like after some democracy is free. Not to be affected directly by political and party February, but to be a service in which civil society will also have its word. Perhaps this idea is still to a certain extent naive today. Perhaps it was, I would say, a more invested desire of all those who couldn't and didn't have access to public television in the 1980s, and it attacked or insulted them quite strongly. Perhaps this is an idea that is no longer in force in a politically so profiled Slovenia today, but because I am also an idealist, I think that this ideal, which has not worked very well, also admit that this ideal does not appear to be simply goodbye and to make such a step as you have made it. But if I look at the whole marriage, I think the marriage is pretty bad; that it has some solutions that are better than the previous one, which is normal, 10 years in between. But if I ask myself what it's about, which is why I'd be willing to go to a referendum on this law are just two or three things. Majda, my opinion is my opinion - you will tell yours, as in Liberal Democracy we always know how to do. Okay. Only two or three things that make me ready to go to the referendum, and this is in particular the composition of the Programme Council and the composition of the Supervisory Council and partly, in my opinion, not too appropriate the delimitation of powers between the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. Because of these things, I'm willing to go to a referendum. I'm not ready to go to the referendum because of the third channel, because of a variety of other shortcomings. But what I would like to stress is that it is here to this extent of the debate that the solutions that are, in fact, could have been a compromise. One of these, not the only ones to be saved, not completely completed, was the one to be invested by the Peace Institute. There have been others, and if they wanted to have a public service, there could have been compromise on these issues. That is why I think that - once again, I call on the government and all of you, Members and Members of Parliament from the post, although I know that it is in vain to reconsider if you can - and I think that we can - consider a compromise solution whereby civil society plays an important role in the appointment of the Programme Councils, but at the same time this confirmation comes, let's say, by the State Assembly in a similar way as proposed, this could be a solution good for both sides. It would be a compromise, I think, that this is a matter of regulating the media space, the rules under which in the Slovenian space it is regulated and determined that this is an important matter. We can agree and disagree on a number of matters relating to politics, economy, development, but if we can agree on what the mechanisms, the generational mechanisms of public service are, if you want, this would be extremely important. I don't think that's gonna happen, but I could. And of course they're going to have to decide on that for the voters and voters at the referendum. Because for these things I am ready to go, even on behalf of the fact that we once wanted to have a television in which no political February will directly affect the program, that we wanted to have such a television and we got it, one way or another. That's why I'm willing to go to the referendum and invite everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, the Council of State has again offered us an opportunity to reflect, because I am under the impression of yesterday's debate and of the previous anti-corruption commission, the Ombudsman and the deleted, the recruitment of the Presidents of the courts and so on, and, of course, this does not give me the hope that those who voted last time for the law may change their minds. However, what the hope of the last death shows, of course, is to insist on arguing the inappropriateness of this law. Last but not least, if we don't stop him today, we're going to try this at the referendum because I believe that voters and voters will be able to do more smart thinking. What you like to refer to very much is the proponents of this law, in particular colleagues Grims and Jerovšek, or the assertion by our party's president that the LDS should have a strong influence on the institution, and the return of the obvious that you should have it, is an argument that, compared to the influence that you want to establish, can blow away the morning breath. Indeed, the LDS and we are also trying to influence the programming policy of public broadcasting, and when, if we know that, we can get together with an editor and a journalist, unfortunately, less and less, but you are doing the same thing and you are doing the same or better. A few important names on RTV are on your side today and they help you "hundred an hour". What you are establishing with this law is the institutionalized influence of political power over the institution, it is literally its backing. 21 members and members, i.e. a large majority of the programming board, will be appointed here in the National Assembly. And not by taking into account the relationship of political forces, but by the logic and instrument of the majority. The same applies to supervisors. Only civil society's names will be selected, supposedly reputable and politically uncontaminated, which will suit you - i.e. from the Republic's Assembly, New Magazine, Slovenian World Congress, New Commitments, various movements for reconciliation Under Leipzig, democratisation of the media, a fair border in Istria, and so on - to ensure the autonomy and independence of the institution. Well, let's be serious! It is also bad that regional centres lose their autonomy, especially for the two indigenous national communities, which express their interests, needs and rights in these centres, cannot be better. No matter what deal you made them. I worked on the radio, I worked on the TV Koper-Capodistria as a journalist of the Italian information programme and a member of the Italian national community for 18 years, and I know what the situation is if you're actually autonomous or not. Colleagues and coalition colleagues. It is obvious that your efforts are to be completely surrounded by mirrors that will tell you over and over again that you are "the most beautiful in this land", as colleague Gulič says. But there's always going to be some sort of splinter where your true image is leaking. Last but not least, you can't and can't avoid a mirror vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So at the outset, let me mention or argue that Slovenia urgently needs a new law on RTV. Why? Firstly, this seems very important to me. It is necessary to eliminate the constitutional non-compliance established by the Constitutional Court. It has been waiting for quite some time, and it has been found that things are not going as well as they should, but it is obvious that this was the way the politicians responded. Of course before the election. And this proposal, which is before us, elegantly solves the complexities defined by the Constitutional Court. Next, which makes me say that a new law is urgently needed, is that it has overrun the existing one for a long time. He got hit by a clock. One, of course, is the Constitutional Court's decision, and the other, which I think is important, is the situation in the institution itself. Last but not least the time goes on and new management methods appear better, such that the results of running such a large institution are certainly better. The next point that makes it seem necessary for me to need a new law is that it is necessary to help local media. Indeed, those famous 3%, which were defined by the old law and are constitutionally controversial, need to be resolved, and for me this law is a kind of twin of the media law, which is being prepared and will soon, as it is announced, come along the path envisaged, into this house and we will discuss it. Next, it is necessary to regulate the situation in the institution. Maybe it's a loss we're one of these elements, there's another. I would like to mention, as we have already heard today, about 800 fees worked in this institution and what was most problematic about it is that the employees in their own house were in a worse position, so to speak, more in an unenviable position than those fees. And we can say that the employees in the RTV house were victims of this condition, perhaps even at the expense of these fees. That's why there were so many of them, and that's why it takes fees to cover things up. And to the employees in this house, they got paid worse for more jobs. And by the way, I'd just like to mention the strange events in the weather about the price of Intelsata shares. Just so you don't get into this too much. The next point that seems very important to me is the depoliticisation of this institution. The fact is that the RTV world is run by a politically profiled person who was at the head of a former client. In fact, when he was also president, he never interrupted the continuity of the one-party system and, if you want, the jugonostalgia. And therefore, it is no wonder that in the programme scene, Commissioner Rex had the advantage of celebrating General Maister. I'm sorry. And, Your Honor, allow me to quote just two sentences of these famous letters. "Dear Tone, when you advertise between the people for the referendum and for the independence of the media, come on, remember, dear Tone, what effect your client has had on them all the time, with the law or the past." So it's either marriage or it's over - influence. And then the answer: "Let me remind you, Borut, that the bill-makers as one of the important reasons for the law referred to the President of the RTV Programme Council, who was the president of the former totalitarian party and did not mean my clients." And now, what's most interesting about this is why I quoted it; because the answer "Dear Tonet" did not go to the denial of this effect, but he tried to lower something else to the other side. There was no speech anywhere about the quality of the program. Nowhere was this, nowhere was there any content, it was just a political matter. So it's probably gonna hold something that's been written down. And the next point that makes it important for us to get a new law, namely, the state council voted veto solely because of resentment and not because of content. It was not important content, it was not important concerns about the programme, but because it was important how many members of the State Council were supposed to be in a bureaucrat body. Next point. This law is Europeanly comparable, distinguishes many things, public interests, market activities and not least, it is important, most countries in Europe have similar arrangements. There, by chance in one country, which is similar to ours, there are terrible problems. Now there's a point that I think is essential. All the debate of opponents revolves around the programme world, who should sit there, how should be elected, which experts should sit there, how many peace institutes should be included, how should be included, and how not to list another. Of course you're forgetting something. After all, 2 million potential viewers are not interested in who will sit there and what key will be chosen, they are interested in the quality of the program, the content of the program, the diversity of content, not least the amount of the contribution for all of this. The composition is not that important after all, and they are not interested in whether the members of the State Council are insulted or not and therefore we vote veto. Of course, they don't care how much you talked about the composition of this world, it was all about it. But most of all, I was struck by the fact that I heard again today why someone would go to the referendum. The main point, the main point of this is the composition of this world, not the content, not the programs, not the height of the contribution - nothing that people are interested in, but just the composition of a world. This is a matter for which a referendum is paid. Second. You have no real arguments that are important to people, so of course you have not convinced us that this marriage is bad. For the sake of only one body, this law is not bad, for it is necessary to have what people judge in front of their eyes, so the law is necessary. Maybe in the end. The meetings, which will be held on a special channel, will show directly what we are doing, what we are saying, how we are voting, whether we are voting differently as we speak, and, of course, how we are then acting on the ground. It is said that people will see directly, but not that they will be informed briefly through some intermediaries, through some filters or perhaps even through longer comments, especially in printed media, shows things completely different than they are. If and when this happens, I am sure that we will not experience such insults as we did yesterday when we were "clapps" when we had a "b or c complex" when you see the "right lens poorly on the left hand side" that we do not understand things and we have heard all this in about an hour. There was more of that, but I'm not going to list it. I'd ask you right now, where does this intolerance come from, and who knows where it's coming from? I'm not going to comment. I doubt that if yesterday had been a direct transfer, as envisaged by the new law, that all these words would have been spoken here in this room and I would not have supported the veto because I believe that this marriage is necessary and necessary, I would have said that it has been too late for several years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Marjan Pojbich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! Initially, I must say that I am surprised at the debate and decision of the Council of State, which adopted the procrastination veto on the proposal of the law on RTV, since it is possible to conclude from the debate that the law is good and very urgently needed to regulate the situation at the RTV Institute. From day to day, I am more convinced that the RTV facility is even more politically coloured than I thought, since anyone who monitors the first RTV programme can clearly see what the most time is devoted to, and this is to elite LDS and SD. The fact that RTV is politically guided is clear from the letters exchanged by LDS President Tone Rop and SD President Boru Pahor, I quote, Anton Rop: "Let me remind you, Borut, that the drafters of the law, as one of the important reasons for the law, cited the President of the RTV Programme Council, who was the president of the former totalitarian party and did not think of my client" - i.e. LDS. And, Mr Borut Pahor, I quote: "When you survey between people for the referendum and for the independence of the media, remember, dear Tone, what effect your client has had on them all the time, with or beyond the law." So, it's all over him. This means, of course, that it is clear from these letters to everyone in this country that the management of the institution is entirely political and therefore it is imperative that this law, which enables such an impact of policy, be replaced by a law proposed by the Government, which will allow for objective information to be provided to the Slovenes and the Slovenians and prevent the political leadership of this institution. The proposed law will also eliminate the fact that citizens and citizens will pay something that they are not satisfied with, at a price previously set and without the possibility of impact. I will support the proposed law for the following reasons. Since this law establishes an effectively organised system based on journalistic autonomy and professionalism, it has all those powers that are necessary for a more successful and quality functioning of the public service. The law also provides a legal basis for the dissemination of a new national programme aimed at providing quality and timely public information on the functioning of the Slovenian Parliament, so that what is happening now that Slovenians and Slovenians see only what the LDS and Social Democrats want. It is sad that I have to point out this because it is impossible to hide it, and daily citizens and citizens remind me that it is time for us to do something in this area and that we are aware that we owe Slovenia and Slovenia to provide objective information, which of course is not a practice now. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am sure that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia know why they have entrusted the leadership of this country to new people, and I am sure that even with the referendum you will not be able to carry out and preserve the position that ensures you to manipulate your own citizens and their money, which you want to continue to spend in your way that you have been accustomed to in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to support the RTV Act, which is why. But with one sentence, I could say that it is also because this marriage is better than the previous marriage and is far from being seen in the public eye. In recent months, there have been the most debates and hot words around Article 17. From many debates and amendments, which were tabled and then rejected, it was clear that you were smaller but quite a loud part of the Slovenian public wants to preserve the existing state. The most enthusiastic critics of this law have said that the law allows for the politicization of public broadcasting and journalists in the public service. It's hard to talk about the future so quoted, it's easier for us to talk about the past. In the past, however, the communist regime was the one that allowed this politicisation of journalism, leading to its deprofessionalisation, which means political dependence and the loss of professional autonomy. The previous regime granted journalists the status of sociopolitical workers, a status similar to that of party officials at the time. All those journalists, who were not members of the Communist Party, I stress we were not members of the Communist Party, but we were already fundamentally suspicious. The political elite, who recently lost power, reduced journalists to public servants. We can only speak about the politics of journalism in the past and only in the facts. The future can be predicted or predicted. Today's opposition is clearly predicting this future on the basis of its own past experience, and therefore, in predicting the future of RTV, they have such a bleak outlook. They have just drawn the conclusion from their experience that the politicisation of this public institution will continue in the future. The intention of the current authorities, as well as of this law, is a fair and balanced media space. However, in all the debates on the new RTV law, this desire met with a loud opposition in which it was difficult to face arguments. It was a combination of simplifications and orchestrated performances and the amount of repetition of the same adhesions. The new legislation will undoubtedly benefit the RTV House. Above all, it will benefit the audience and the audience. When we recently received work materials from the RTV House for the preparation of the annual report, we encountered some interesting facts in these papers. The average age in this institution is 48 years, which is, of course, considerable and in some ways calls for a rejuvenation of this collective. But that's not the most important thing. More than that, it is important that almost half of them do not meet the educational conditions required by the systemisation of works. Now we can ask ourselves how to create a quality programme on national television and radio and how to operate such a large and important public institution if half of the employees do not have adequate education. In the same document, Director General Alex Stakul pointed out that on RTV they had almost halved the number of guides they had intended for themselves. So there's still half of those guides on RTV that are their own purpose. In recent months, it has been heard that the new government is afraid that the media will set up a mirror for it. But people need to be told this: the media do not reflect reality, but they do create and construct it. All the messages we read, which we see on TV, are interpreted at the same time. Many journalistic groups are skillfully mixed today, and comments are sold as reports. But every comment is, of course, an interpretation. That is why it is so much more important to create some opportunities for professional work on public television, and this law makes this possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. A respected council, a respected minister, a respected councilman! The Council of State has therefore adopted a decision to require the national assembly to re-decision on the law on RTV. Only because he did not agree on two points in the law and despite the fact that the law regulates many other extremely important matters. An interesting statement from the saint, Mr. Praise [[Quote]] "Our reputation," the reputation of the state council, "will grow if we make a veto proposal." Personally, I strongly doubt this claim. Respect is not something to be gained immediately. The reputation grows over the years, but it can really be lost in a moment. I believe that the veto has been voted on mainly because of the anticipated changes to the State Council Act. The proposed Article 17, which is opposed by the State Council, opens the door wide enough to a wide range of civil society. I ask why you doubt that the National Assembly is not credible enough to approve and reject the proposed candidates for members of the RTV Council. At the same time, he is entrusted with confirming or rejecting the appointment of constitutional judges, the Attorney General, judges and other appointments. Are all these appointments just political? Isn't this doubt in the National Assembly a great deal of mistrust in this highest legislative institution? The lack of confidence in the electorate who authorized us to do this job? Do you think that I am not capable of choosing respectable, professional, independent and moral honest people according to my standards? The law under consideration or Article 17 provides that it is to the greatest extent consistent with the solutions they know in most countries of the European Community. The argument that there are no parliaments anywhere in Europe who would appoint members of the programme councils is to mislead those who convince us that Slovenia has been an example of media freedom and democracy for all Europe so far. So why has this existing or old, unconstitutional Slovenian law on RTV not been introduced in other European countries, even where its influential supporters have recently come from? It is interesting how these have publicly opposed reforms in the management of national RTV with increased tonnes of threats and orders. Dear Tone, dear Borut, distinguished colleagues and colleagues from LDS and SDS! Too bad your sense of democracy, independence and media plurality wasn't so acute years ago. And I ask you, would you oppose the new law with the same determination if you were still in power? Simply, you're not honest - not to use anything worse! Let me sum up the thought of our great Slovenian, the reverend. I quote: "With Slovenian honesty, we have survived the millennium, and I hope that we will continue to do so. When you're gone, we'll fall as a nation." The veto and opposition against the opposition do not in any way convince me that in this case you are really concerned with the autonomy and plurality of RTV. I am increasingly convinced that it is only to protect our own positions of power so far, because it has been demonstrated that if the ruling party is in power for more than 10 years, its impact will certainly be exploited to perfection. This is also what practice in Slovenia shows us. The veto has not saved the unconstitutionality of the old law, which has lasted for more than 12 years since 1993. It does not solve clear responsibility for the poor business and financial situation of RTV, which is being bathed in losses and thus far have only been resolved by the height of the RTV subscription. No one has taken part in solving this problem: not the administration, not the politics, not the profession, not the society of journalists, not the so-called civil society. I ask when a wider civil society opinion has also been sought on this issue. Who was and is also responsible for the unlimited spending of RTV Slovenia's subscribers' money? The proposed law does, however, clearly distinguish and define responsibility. Again and again, my colleagues from LDS and SD admit that everything you have done in the last ten years has been the best, the most professional and completely non-political. Therefore, your current coalition should not allow itself to change anything in this country. I will continue to remind you of this until you yourself become more self-critical and admit some mistakes in the past. You have not changed your own mental background, so you are constantly proving in your debates the fear that the current coalition and government will imitate your actions at a time when you were in power. The State Council's request for re-decision on the RTV law did not convince me not to support the proposed law. The changes proposed by the Council of State would fundamentally alter and undermine the basic objectives of the proposed law, which is certainly a qualitative leap in relation to the current unconstitutional law, as well as in terms of plurality, business and organisational determination and clear responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A warm welcome to the Minister and Mr. Councillor of State, colleague and colleague! As you may recall, my previous performance was quite resounding, as my statement was quoted several times, and I also took care of good music because Bruce Springstina was repeatedly turned on television or on radio. She also quoted the statement several times, but I would rather turn to the latest events that I would like to talk to you about. In particular, I have in mind the correspondence on the "dear Tone" link, "dear Borut" in which the question of "dear Tone" arises, if it is not mentioned how much influence Tonet's client had on the media throughout the transition. By law or by law. Once again, with or past the law. Indirect recognition of illegality strengthens me in the belief that a new law is needed to bring order. Tone answers that the new law would endanger the reputation of a member of his party. I myself believe that if Social Democracy wants to operate in a modern European spirit, based on Blair's example, such personnel will not help it, because they are linked to the past and far from modern European trends. Often changing the customer name will only cost if there are no new carriers and new content. But it's not today's topic, nor is it my topic or my situation in a competing firm, if I may put it that way, I'm not interested. Or as I've heard in Korcula, it's an interesting thought: "Why do you worry about other people's concerns?" That's true. It's none of your business. This for the POP TV on civil society and the professional sphere stated: "There are also, on a proposal, members of some forums, organisations, for example, Sandra Bashič Hrvatin, on the proposal of the LDS President of the Broadcasting Council, but we take her as a professional representative of both the civil and the professional public." This has been the case with more representatives of civil society and professions, even those from imports that have been unilaterally classified on the media situation in our country. I am still of the same opinion on transparency and rational spending of about 30 billion resources, around the management of the institution and around the way the two media are reporting. Maybe not about politics. Fun music, sports. For example, it is reported that a well-known group sold 80,000 cards within two hours, perhaps it would be good if they were accompanied by two or three products of this group, so that people could better assess what kinds of music can cause euphoria. Then maybe from the sports field, hockey comments by Andre Staret. For instance 4:2 for the Jesenice, he reports on the long and wide of those two goals. I mean, the strong Olympic fan, he's talking about those two goals that the Olympics have achieved, indefinitely. At this point, his pets are high and the rest are low. Then I would talk about hanging humor, which is offensive, sometimes segregation and intolerance to religious definition. In his mind is TV Popper, where the dialogue in the ditch is like, "There goes a dog." Kobal says, "Maybe it's a Christian dog." I felt hurt because I consider myself a Christian. The new law provides an opportunity for quality journalism, which will ensure that the media is informed, educated and provided with decent entertainment. Acting on the basis of European media, it may be a model for the BBC. The law is certainly Europeanly comparable. Even less serious content or not, it might be best if I finish and thank you for your word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Stane Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All present, Minister! I thought the law on RTV was behind us. It wasn't like that. What happened was the procrastination veto of the State Council, which I think is more out of resentment than out of actual content, because they themselves feel that the law is significantly better than the previous one, that it is good, but on some points it is a little limping. Of course, everyone has the right to interpret these limping points in their own way. We can ask ourselves why we went to amend the existing law in the first place. Yeah, I think it's the basic reason that the money was being spent imprudently, and there were large sums in the back. The Supervisory Board has itself found irregularities. So we can say in a single word to this: unconsensual treatment of money. That's one of the basic reasons. Another basic reason is that the RTV programming board is politically defined, at least with its leadership. I'm sorry. And we're just trying to neutralize this programming world. We're trying to place RTV in normal currents. We're just going to do this with a third program that's going to be unfiltered information, source information. Such information is of the highest quality. Let the electorates themselves, or the viewers and the viewers, decide for themselves whether to watch or not, and let them choose according to their own will. That's the whole point. The point is, too, to get unspoiled information, impartially to get a complete picture. When our client was in opposition, she made a loving effort to have direct transfers, and she did so in part. I think any normal opposition is in the interest of having direct transfers. More than positions, as this can point to the behaviour of ruling parties and their mistakes. We are, I think, the only country in this area where the opposition is publicly - at least part of the opposition that I will not be misunderstood - part of the opposition is trying not to be public or direct transfers. As far as the referendum is concerned, which they're also promising, we're not afraid of it. We're just not afraid of him. We will respect the will of the electorate and the electorate if it comes to this, but we are simply not afraid of it. However, we must stress that it will cost 600 million, and this, of course, from the budget. I also welcome the thought or position of the leader of one of the opposition parties, who also thinks that the referendum is unnecessary - at least at the moment: no - and also gives reasons. These reasons are in Borut Tonet's letter. And now I'm going to quote what it says: "And one more thing. When you advertise between the people for the referendum and for the independence of the media, come on, remember, dear Tone, what a great effect your client has had on them all the time, with or past the law." [[End of quote.]] Tone wrote back, of course, "Let me remind you, Borut, that the bill-makers as one of the important reasons for the law referred to the President of the RTV Programme Council, who was the president of the former totalitarian party, and they did not think of my client." [[End of quote.]] Once again, let me point out why I, too, am a fan of this law being adopted and the old man being abolished. Simply to make it more cost-effective to deal with funds. Second, to put television in normal water, to be nonpolitical or at least impartial. This will be achieved through the third programme, the direct transfer of our meetings. Of course I will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Milan Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u70	I've been in a dilemma myself, or even come by, but I'd still like to say two sentences. Firstly, if you look at the data primarily on the work of the Supervisory Board, then you will see that the financial situation in connection with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and also in relation to the activities that have been undertaken in the past with regard to the management of the public institution is improving. Secondly, and for that reason, I recommend to Members and Members that they consider how they will vote in this veto. But there's someone who's my vision of today's debate. It will be very interesting when Slovenians and Slovenians listen to MEPs and Members, and the Members and Members will repeat a written speech in advance. And in this regard, of course, I regret that in today's debate there is, in fact, a great deal of shame, an obvious one. We are not aware, however, that, or that, today's vote and some other votes that have taken place this week will reduce the level of democracy in this country. Above all, you obviously want to take on the last, yesterday's mentioned and celebrated garden in every way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that several Members are missing, I would like to invite the Member of Parliament, mag, to the floor. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Look, there have been a lot of doubts about the credibility of this when politicians judge the media. However, what at least we talked about in the SDS, we based exactly on the opinion of the journalists themselves. Let me show you a little bit of this: "Hiding on nationals. In the information program TV Slovenia is boiling. What went down on the nationals? Pays RTV chiefs - top secret. Red Nationalist." And so on. I've got quite a lot of that. However, some of you also referred to foreign references. In doing so, you have mentioned more or less well-known people, and let me mention the opinion of someone who is actually a very important member of European policy and even the biggest political competitors recognise him as one of the fathers of a united Europe. This is Mr Wilfred Martens, who is now also the head of the European People's Party, who said just a few months ago: "You know, it is simply not worthy that people from the old nomenclature continue to spin close to the levers of power and, in particular, in public TV houses and newspapers, because they, the old nomenclature, are guilty of dividing Europe." When you look at this from the point of view of the composition of organs on the current nationalist, these words are quite interesting. Those of you who mentioned Grimms, however, have forgotten that the Constitutional Judge in Germany is also extremely reputable, and a key commentator of constitutional law, specifically for public broadcasting for the European Community, Dr Grimm, wrote that "where the appointment through the so-called civil society has taken place, there has been a complete predominance of politics. And where the same party has been in power for 10 years or more, this political supremacy on public television has become total" - that is, perfect. But you forgot those words. This is a knowledge of constitutional law, German constitutional law, which we often refer to in Slovenia, which, by the way, occurred before this law, now in force, was adopted in Slovenia in 1994. But then those who were the real authors of this marriage either didn't know it or they didn't shut it. But for the end, let me have something else very special. Do you know what the biggest problem is in Slovenia? That there are always some things, some things that are crucial to understanding one question, never come into public newspapers. At least not the one that's central, the most crucial. Why? I cannot see for myself any other logic than the reality of the words of the President of the Social Democrats, Mr Borut Pahor, when he wrote: "Dear Tone, remember how you controlled the LDS media throughout the transition, with or beyond the law." Because this is the only way I can explain to myself why this deficit occurs in several mainstream media at the same time, this deficit information, which is extremely important, because polytology teaches, I quote Prof. Dr. Bogomir Ferfilo, who is the head of political science, "is more important than what is reported and what is reported, what is not reported", that is, what is systematically silent. Let me draw attention to one element that has been present since this debate since the first online publication of the law. Now, over a thousand and one media outlets have been creating an opinion, as if, say, I'm the one who wants to intervene -- I'll be personal once -- in the rights of journalists and others that they've been defending them all the time and that they're defending them all the time today. Now let us see what is the truth that would be revealed in some normal country because editorial policies in all democratic countries seek to control each other and the media control each other, which is unfortunately not in Slovenia. And that's what we need the most. I'll remind you of that. In 1999, he adopted this National Assembly, which voted veto on the then amendment of the RTV Slovenia Act, which severely encroached on the rights of journalists. Work, Saturday annex, Uroš Slak wrote: "LDS has been recorded in history as a party that has been defined as government television and not as a national." The one who actually proposed for this veto was me and that at the request of the journalists of RTV Slovenia. If you want, Uroša Slaka and Rajko Gerič, to present them in person, both in the function of those key journalists' associations on RTV Slovenia, which should then be listened to by the legislator. And the veto was then voted by the state council. He was voted here, but he was voted out, you will not believe it, when the vote of this veto was advocated by the then Secretary of State, Mrs Majda Shirca. But, about the misdirection in this picture, which has been created in the public over the past months, when exactly the opposite situation was displayed, as is the case with the actions of us as concrete individuals, no one from the central media could know anything about it. So allow me, at least in memory of my colleague Mrs Shirci, to hand out a copy of the vote at the time when you voted my veto in the National Assembly, my veto, which would be in favour of the journalists, their independence and was even put into their will. In doing so, Mrs Shirci, I hereby hand over this vote, together with that article by Mr Uroš Slak, who is very clearly qualified, who is responsible for the freedom of journalists in this country and who, in the past period, has proved by his actions that he does not really want it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u73	Mr. Grimes, I'd like you to deliver this outside the hall, somehow on trial at the temple of democracy. I'd like you, Mr Grimes, to go to your seat or the hallway. And I think that was also a kind of final conclusion to your debate. Mrs. Shirca, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much. "Dear Branko", remember this year in 1999, which is linked to this package. 14. On 10th in 1999, when this issue was addressed, the proposal was that journalists of RTV Slovenia did not have the right to consent, but only to the opinion submitted by the Slovenian Christian Democracy party SKD. She explained: "It is right that the Council of RTV should ask for the opinion of the representative office of employees in the editorial department and not for consent, because there are also representatives of employees in the world of RTV who would have priority over representatives of the founder... - four, four. This amendment, proposed by the SKD, was supported by 40 votes to 13, as the documentation at the time shows. This same proposal was - in 1999 - this same proposal was in 1999, this is said to be 8.10., also supported by Sir, then not the Tribal Jelinčič, who wanted to regulate this matter in the same way. And allow me because I still have time to read you his explanation. What the Institute of Consent Withdrawal means. The right one - he suggested the withdrawal of consent - and I must admit that I agree with him and you obviously agree with him, because in this law you did not put your consent back in place, but you left your opinion, which I agree with you and I do not object to you and I have never advocated a different position on the committee. What does Mr. Jelinčič say? "The Institute of Consent is a representative of the editorial staff to appoint responsible programme editors as they do not know anywhere, no legal regulation of public RTV in other European countries - et four et four. "This means overseeing the performance of these tasks, which is the responsibility of the Council of RTV Slovenia, which is," - beware of what Mr Jelinčič then says - "comprised of representatives of the National Assembly of RS and of the most important civil society organisations and associations or those organisations and associations which, by nature, are most closely linked to the production of RTV programmes." That's how this amendment is based. "The employees of RTV Slovenia are obliged to implement the conclusions and guidelines of the public representation agency, which operates the public institution RTV Slovenia. The represented and established interests of the employees of RTV Slovenia are taken care of by three of their representatives, who are elected to the world of RTV Slovenia." That's what's left of it. This right of employees in RTV Slovenia is also our specialty, to which the representatives of the Council of Europe have expressed reservations at the time of the preparation of the current law, when it comes to a partial breach of the concept of public service or to public servants controlling themselves, etc. At that time, in 1999, I remember well, so I do not need this to be agreed upon by this arrangement, so that consensus can be blocked and that it is better thought, but arranged in the way that the Liberal Democracy was then amended and as it remained in law. Thus, if this opinion is not taken into account, the next stage will be reached. And, "Dear Branko" or "Dear Branko," so you arranged for yourself when you were writing this law, and it's okay. Although we know that this is a different form of appointment because this time the Council will no longer appoint a Director or Director, it will be the Director-General, who we know has significantly more competence under your law. But that's not the issue. In short, to this chapter, which you are constantly throwing or manipulating to me because you are manipulating a thesis that is not based, please make an end to the fact that I have read these amendments to you and have told you the history of this story, which the journalists have then agreed with; and Mr Slak may have some other questions today - there are no more questions. Allow me to continue with other questions and proceed with "Dear Branko". "Dear Branko" was once President of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board and I know he understands what the public agency had already pointed out when he was dealing with the issue of the introduction of the third television programme. As we know, we have in the rapporteurs of the National Assembly the records of the Supervisory Council - you did not then give conclusions to the National Assembly, but the minutes of all the time you presided over the Supervisory Council. I would like to draw attention to the question that has been raised today - and that is why I would also like to stay with it - to be repeatedly exposed to who is afraid and who does not want a third parliamentary programme. Those who listened attentively and also read the amendments, not in the Liberal Democracy or in the neighbouring opposition party, did not end the third programme which would transmit the meetings of the National Assembly, as well as the Council of State or other information in the field of the functioning of the National Assembly. However, we questioned regulation, financing, transfers, accounts, and, above all, autonomy. Because this law will, I think, be unique, I don't think, certainly, unique in the world, but certainly in Europe, which will define the editing of the third programme. The third program won't be autonomous. And it's not just about non-autonomy, it's about other questions. Well, and what was exposed in November 1998 was within the discussions of the Supervisory Board that you led. Indeed, there were the same questions that we, which we did not address, but warned that it should be addressed differently, and that it should also be amended in this regard, which was when you pointed out in the debates about the following problems. That, for example, Mr Kadunc had explained at that time that, as other broadcasts were made, measurements were made to the meetings of the National Assembly at that time - the same as today - and that the analyses carried out showed that the third TV network was not economically justified at this time, and that the concept of a domain that would allow the definition: whether or not, in particular due to the open question of technological possibilities for the distribution of the programme was not yet ready. And we've been talking about this for how many years? - Seven years later in this national council. For example, it was also said that the third television program was only possible via satellite, which means funds. In addition to the difficulty of playing the third programme's ratings, which we have also warned about this time, there could be a failure to cover the whole territory in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, then you pointed out the legal ban on marketing information programmes, and the lack of interest in linking the economy with politics, etc., etc. Liberal democracy, my esteemed previous interlocutors, would benefit from transfers. Of course I would. I'm interested. However, it is not possible to write laws in a way that is self - centered in its own image or in its own interest. Laws are written in the interest of everyone and in the interest of the public. And the third programme, this interest, or the consequences of it alone, did not detect it. And if we go back to the decision we got on the bench and everyone knows it well, the decision of the Constitutional Court. It cannot be read in just one sentence. It needs to be fully analysed. And one thought of this decision, which was overturned or reflected on and reflected on those controversial 3% that were, by the way, introduced into the media law in the third reading, when we ourselves warned of its unconstant solution and possible constitutional dispute, because ad hoc was just thrown into an article that was currently open. Also, the question of how conceptual it was at that time that it was compatible to reach out so radically to this concept in the third reading. Well, what does the Constitutional Court ruling say? It raises the question of what damage can happen to a public institution, in so far as they are reduced or in terms of the autonomy of its operation, insofar as the funds intended for its operation are reduced. Taking those three percent means reducing these funds. And, of course, the Constitutional Court wonders in all legal logic whether television can then be autonomous. After all, it will be able to put pressure on the government, on the budget and become dependent because it will have a smaller duty. At that time something happened, something that my colleague Gulič had already warned about today. The government also increased the television contribution at the expense of these three percent. But that's chapter two. Why I link the issue of limited autonomy to RTV Slovenia, in so far as the introduction of the third programme takes place. And here's that circle I want to make. That's because the third television station is going to put pressure on the public service. After one of the calculations we received in the National Assembly, when transfer offers were being collected, who would run for state-level meetings in the previous composition, these calculations were very, very large. They went under half a billion, if I recall the talks at the time, for partial coverage. And as long as the television is being charged or the contribution is going to have to fluctuate money into financing the transfer of meetings of the National Assembly, of course this money will go to the expense of other programming content. Unless, of course, there will be a renewed increase in television coverage. That's what I wanted to talk about when I talked about the transfer of meetings, the introduction of a third programme that I don't personally object to, but under conditions that would not compromise any other action. All right, you'll say we're going to be money from television sales, which, by the way, will be banned elsewhere, but will also be banned on other local and regional televisions. There will be some bizarre mix of selling cosmodics with discussions in the National Assembly and something else. But still [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u75	Please, only Mrs. Shirca has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u76	But still, this withdrawal of money will not be intended for the third program. It will spread across all of them, which means that the third programme will burden the budget it will receive from these parades - provided by the TV Slovenia - and this can also indirectly compromise the quality of the regular TV programme Slovenia. Otherwise, I must stress once again that this solution is for the refugees to stand up for the free, public call of all networks that are interested in possibly transmitting television broadcasts. This has been the case in the past, of course in a well-known fact, that, like all countries, Slovenia also has a structured view of parliamentary discussions on the computer network. Let me conclude with another reflection by Mr Mir Petk, who is interesting and in fact never in these circles has it been open when he thought that any reporting could be interpreted in some way. True, any writing, even objectively and reporting type, can be an interpretation. And in fear that this interpretation on public television would not be too severe, it is now ex-ex-, but once the responsible editor of television information programs, I think the only editor who has been in recent years, what I know, had to leave television; this was Mr. Lipusček - who came up with a code based on the American model. We all know. The RTV Slovenia Code of Conduct, on the conduct not only of authors, editors, but also of other authors and co-creators of RTV Slovenia is extremely strict. I hope he stays, although personally as a journalist, he'd like it because he's limited. It is strict, however, that what could always be a danger within public television should not happen in order to avoid overinterpretation, comments. Television has broken, unfortunately, to me as viewers, I can say unfortunately, comments, just out of fear that any option would not be too recognizable inside, and this code, which is so thick a book, goes so far - I forgive myself if I repeat it, but perhaps it is not necessary - it goes so far as to say that the recorders on RTV Slovenia are taken or guided by what kind of footage they can record. This codex clearly states that if the cameraman shoots from the so - called toads of perspective, and usually some political or other authority, the person will be caught in a corner that will raise his price or his power, because the frame will magnify his personality, so that he is not allowed to do so. Nor is the frame under this code, which covers a man or a situation with a bird's perspective, so to speak, from above down. Why? Because of the fact that the person who would have been so recorded would not have felt that his power was being reduced or reduced. He can't afford other people at certain levels, either, from the side and so on. Why am I talking about this? You may find that irrelevant, my friend, but you're simplifying this problem. All of you are simplifying this problem, which will be - I hope it will not, but you point out that it will touch anyone who will have in the future the limited power of objective perception and perception of Slovenian reality, if this law is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Grimms, were you misinterpreted or misunderstood?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you. It's more than that. I must say, I am very pleased that Mrs Shirca has also pointed out these camera manipulations. And let me mention as interesting that when I first spoke, someone laid the camera completely on the floor and filmed me up; just as interesting. As far as reference is concerned to Mr Lipuscek, I am afraid that we must warn you that he was the responsible editor who walked according to instructions to the LDS ministers, so [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u79	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u80	As far as the parliamentary channel is concerned, I would like to point out what this difference is all about. I remember, even once, when the opposition demanded it, and you will not believe it, even now Mr White, they have always said, yes, the problem is that then it is limited in some way to press freedom. Mr. White even wrote in writing in a reply he sent to Slovenia to worry them then, because there will be no more chance to make editorial choices, that is to say what they will show and what not. But look, when you look at Professor Ferfile's polytheological textbook, which speaks of the American case as a special quality. [[quote again]] states that "all events will appear at the American Congress or in Parliament without any interference or choice by the editors". This is said to be quite a political argument, contrary to what is being emphasized here at all times. And, by the way, this also shows Mr White in a very strange light, especially his efforts. For what is the goal and what has also been publicly stressed in this law is one thing: to allow room, however, for all those who want it to be small or large, to have the opportunity somewhere to see the whole event in the national assembly, in the whole Parliament, the arguments of one and the arguments of the other party, and then only then can such a person decide for himself and determine which thing seems better to him and which one is worse. Only in this way, when information is no longer chosen in any way, restraints, censored, if you want, can democracy really live in practice. That is why this is extremely important and, therefore, we stress this as a special quality all the time. But as for who the camera is going to show, believe me, if it's going to show you as much as possible, because I think it's time for people to see that there's a big difference between that image as they call it on the FDV, which they call by their choice of media and reality, because when they realize it, some will be very surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Tanko made his last statement between the Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, I would like to say that we have a good marriage ahead of us, in all respects, better than it is, and this becomes obvious as soon as we compare the contents. If we give two boxes and the old bill and these contents are distributed, then we find that the solutions in this law are significantly better, even because the decisions of the Constitutional Court are taken into account, and also because the findings of the Slovenian Radio Television Supervisory Board are also taken into account. The law eliminates the so-called dichotomy of the organs of the institution, which means that powers are properly allocated between the authorities of the institution, it is said, between the Programme Board, between the Supervisory Board and also between the Director. This appropriate allocation of responsibilities must certainly have a qualitative impact on responsibility, the situation and the relationship in the institution and, consequently, must also affect the operation of the institution, both substantively and financially. The only thing, in fact, which is exactly the same, which has not changed and which is not improved by this law, is the way to collect the subscription. The law brings co-management of employees - by the way, I think that the only law in the country that so far, despite the fact that we have a law on institutions, co-management has not been foreseen - and the law also brings a parliamentary channel that will give viewers who want it, the possibility that without interpreters, without interpreters, they will be familiar with the content and intonation of the spoken words of Members. And in this way viewers will be able to get a direct look at the work of individuals, at the work of government and at the work of customers. The parliamentary channel is supposed to cost, I don't know, some 100 million, but I would like to say that the referendum will also cost some 100 million dollars, and we will take at least two years, three years, for the costs of the referendum, if you ask for it. So much that we know what we're talking about and how much it costs. I personally find the decision of the State Council to be surprising for two reasons, primarily because of the content and quality of the law and also because, for the first time, with the law of the State Council, it is possible to present itself directly to the public, that its meetings will also be carried out and that the Council of State after that salary will be levelled with the National Assembly. It should be noted that the State Council has so far been in deep depression after this wage, that the public is not aware of the public’s work and the role of the State Council, that almost nothing is written about its work. Except in the case of any granted immunity or undue salary of the President of the State Council. This law confers equality on the Council of State in terms of the view of direct transfer with the National Assembly, which is not irrelevant. However, it is obvious that the State Council wants to remain in this depression, so it has also called for a re-decision. Another time. The Council of State is represented in this political hierarchy as the upper house, as a representative and representative of the non-political interests, who must keep an eye on the decisions of the political representative, that is, the National Assembly, and, say, by veto, as we are now dealing with this matter, also force the matter to be reconsidered. However, I find at least three things disputed from this requirement of your veto. The Council of State is, as I said before, some sort of arbitrator who stands by the decisions of the National Assembly. Therefore, I find it somewhat unfounded to demand that the State Council appoint members to the organs of the institution's world, as it were, as some kind of appeal body, to fight for the right to appoint members to the organs of the institution's world. I don't think that's a valid request. I also find it extremely controversial that the Council of State requires that a decision be made on three per cent of the RTV programmes of special status, despite the decision of the Constitutional Court. In this I think this matter is extremely unconstitutional. That's what he's asking. And the third time. From magnetograms and also from debates in the national world, there is an unknown resentment, which is actually the basis for this decision of the state council. Everything is, therefore, being reduced in some way, mainly to the right to propose and the right to appoint. And in this part, it is a joint decision of both the State Council and the demands of the Liberal Democracy and the Social Democrats. And it's obvious that both parties are only going to maintain the party's predominance in radio television. For decades the state of television, and even in the last decade, has confessed to the presidents of the two largest former government, and now to the opposition parties, Tone Rop and Borut Pahor. And it is obvious that we still have a party radio set whose bodies members can only be appointed by carefully selected representatives from a carefully selected civil society. The law now allows for for the first time that all civil society representatives can propose, in addition to the previously selected civil society candidates, and which is the most important to me personally, including all the direct users of the public service, i.e. the listeners. So far, the listeners have been completely excluded because they have apparently questioned their proposing abilities and have only been good enough to elect their representatives, so to speak, the President, their mayors and municipal councils, Members. For what other proposals, and for what other decision, our people are obviously still not good enough. But it's good enough for us to charge him a mandatory payment of the radio subscription fee. It should be said that audiences contribute about 80% of the revenue of public television, and audiences have never had the opportunity to directly propose their members to the broadcasters. Interesting! And apparently, with this right to propose and appoint, only representatives of the transition elite have recently been present. The question of the National Assembly is also raised as one who would choose. I think this decision is perfectly logical. Citizens have chosen their political representatives, and these political representatives also have a mandate to choose from different bodies on their behalf. As may representatives of the judiciary, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors and similar bodies. I must say that these mistrusts and concerns that you have expressed about the State Council recently in the Liberal Democracy and Social Democracy have had a very negative impact on the public image of this institution. Not only is this uncultured, uncomfortable talk that we have witnessed through those well-known television shows and debates on the code of ethics. In my opinion, however, the systematic dissemination of doubts about the authenticity and competence of the National Assembly has a significant impact on the public image of the National Assembly. And in the Liberal Democracy and Social Democracy, you've become a true master. Nothing pleases you, nothing is real anymore, and every decision is controversial and, above all, political. Interesting! We have not heard these concerns so far, but lately it has been quite common. I think that these concerns, too, that the National Assembly is not capable of electing the relevant persons to the bodies of television television, mean that it is in fact not trusted with the development of democracy so far and with all the nomination procedures that the National Assembly has also appointed during this self-sustainment period. In short, it is also in some ways acknowledged that all the appointments so far have been political and unprofessional. And by in some way not admitting and contesting these appointments, you are also fighting to preserve the existing state and thus expressing your desire to keep everything under control. Writing to Rop-Pahor basically means one more thing to us. It means we have a de facto client control of the radio. And even if we now came to the state administration of radio television, what you're reading would make a tremendous step forward. However, this is not enough for us and for us, we want the television to actually become public television and the prerequisite for this to become so is to be included in the broadcasters, including those who pay the most as well as those who listen to these programmes. In short, I must say that we will vote against the veto or support the law in our parliamentary group as well as ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Those who have carefully observed the screens have been able to find that information technology also needs a holiday, because at the beginning the computer was counting time to SD instead of SDS, but given that it was only for a few minutes and that there was still some time left to distribute, I don't think there was any reason for alarm. Otherwise, I would also like to invite a representative of the Council of State, Mr Hvalica, and then a representative of the Government, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u84	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate about my feelings and my behaviour about things was somewhat wrong, in the sense that she spoke for the former and or some new law or against it, but not for the new law in any case, but for one or the better, that is my thought. I'm going to ask the chairman if two replicas allow me without counting this in five minutes because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u85	Mr. Praiser [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u86	Let's go, let's go, let's [[...]] I am a representative of an authority that is unprofessional, honorable and dedicated to itself as one of your colleagues says, proposing selfish solutions, doing so out of resentment and so on. We do this only for one single reason, with one sincere desire to make marriage better. When I listened to the debaters, especially when I listened to the Minister, I understood this. The situation is impossible. Terrible things are happening on existing RTV and they may also happen in the future if things become unchanged. But at the same time, I find this. If we do not vote for the existing law, it means that such a situation, such as "grav" from the past, preserves the fact that we get, for example, a representative to the RTV Programme Council of a representative of the Society of Writers, a representative of the Society of Composers, a representative of any organised, legal group of creators, who are, of course, also viewers and so on, and who still belong to the body that decides on the programme on national radio and RTV. I just don't get it. This panicky fear that isn't consistent. Mr Ljublješek said that we do not trust, he said we do not trust the National Assembly to choose the right people from a multitude of proposals. But if you vote for this law, it means that you don't trust this same national council to name the first people, say, from religious communities. Why do religious communities have a special position in this law and directly appoint their two representatives? This is the first, you do not trust that a national assembly from a multitude of proposals would choose two believers who would properly and qualifiedly represent this religious community. In short, these are double criteria, which are, in some ways, aimed at achieving some of the goals that we have differently named or named, but are not in line with what, say, those who would vote for. Those who vote in favour are for RTV autonomy, at least gradual autonomy, as Mr Jerovšek says. They are in favour of no more political pressures, no more censorship or at least attempts at censorship - as Mr Grims says, poor governance. To also invite Eurosceptics and so on, as one of your colleagues says. But this is what those who will vote against also want to do. They are only convinced that the reform of the law will help to achieve this more effectively and faster. That's all this is about. And this [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I don't understand. [[...]] [[Thanks for the heads-up.]] I'll just add my own personal opinion to that if I can afford it. I think that by adopting the law a process of lustration of civil society and some process that I do not like begins. Mr. Friday said that sometimes journalists were terribly social-political workers. Today they're public servants, the ones I'm talking about. Not all of them. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But those on RTV are public servants. [[...]] According to the amendment of the law already tabled by the Ministry of Public Administration, there is, of course, a potential [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u87	Time's up, Mr. Councilman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u88	Civil servants. [[...]] What do you want me to say about the end? "Bonjour tristes" - or a good day of grief, if that's the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. And Mr. Secretary, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, respectable!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u91	Please listen, only Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u92	Much has now been said about the content of the law, fellow Members of the coalition have made a lot of substantive light, a lot has happened again, and I do not think we need to restate everything about the content that we know. I believe that the law is very good, that it is certainly better than what it is, and that it is in accordance with the Constitution, which is not what the current law is. I heard in this discussion that the government's answer is a disgrace. It is now a question of whether the answer is in itself a disgrace [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u93	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u94	Are they the ones who wrote it? [[...]] And I've heard that I'm a historian who can read letters ten years from now when there may be distances and other readings. I'm not going to let myself go into this when it's time to read letters. They're probably meant for someone at a certain time, but I would say as a historian that it's been 15 years since the collapse of a country and that I'm perfectly clear on who the shame is and what the shame is. And that fat liars are the ones who claim they didn't offer RTV to ever see them. I have never offered any television, and I have never participated in a shameful act that would lead to 200,000 dead. Another time. With regard to Mrs Shirce, who said that our proposed arrangement was one that all European countries were fleeing from. I would count again -- so that's not true -- all European countries or most of them have RTV public television as we do, and I've read it exactly the last time and nobody wants to hear it, so I'm going to say it again. In Austria, the Council is composed of 35 members - 24 are appointed by politics; the Czech Republic - TV Council is appointed by Parliament; Norway - 14 members is appointed by Parliament and the President and Vice-President is appointed by the King; Denmark - Culture Minister is appointed by the executive authorities and the national RTV Council; the Netherlands - the Council is appointed by the competent minister; Hungary has three institutions with the character of public RTV, members is appointed by Parliament and certain civil society organisations, Parliament is appointed by the Presidency of each of the three committees, at least 11 members; Poland - members of the administrative board is appointed by the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board is appointed by the National Council and the Minister for Finance, the National Council, which is 9 members, and is appointed by all policies. Estonia, - 9 members is appointed by Parliament; - I will not now list how it is worked out within but pure political domination. Iceland - Parliament and the Minister of Culture are appointed, 7 members of the Council are appointed by Parliament from among themselves. Ireland - the world is appointed by the competent minister. Belgium - the Director-General is appointed by the Government and all other members of the Council. Cyprus - 9 members of the world are appointed by the government. Finland - 21 members of the Council are appointed by Parliament. Norway - 9 members are appointed by Parliament. Greece - most in the world is appointed by the government. Lithuania - 12 members of the world, 8 appointed by politics and 4 appointed by the world for science, the world for education, the society of artists and the Lithuanian Bulgarian Conference. Malta - the minister appoints everything. France - even the President, the Senate and the President of Parliament. Spain - the world has 12 members, Congress appoints 6 members, and the Senate. The United Kingdom, which would like to see it so much, is the only parliament that actually talks there, only every ten years, but Parliament and government determine everything and then the Queen's Commissioner signs it. Only in Sweden are employees managed and in Germany, which has a specific position, but if we look at because it has three public televisions, it appoints from 77 members [[There are 77 of them in individual saints, somewhere 72]] 42 politics. So much for all European countries to flee from such laws. That's just not true. It's about civil society. Several Members spoke about this and, of course, listed only the civil society that consumes it. [[...]] Fortunately, however, Member Yuri has also listed a civil society that he does not. Civil society has taken many initiatives and has come to a great deal of attention, but some do not want to see it or hear it. We think that, by saying that it is a chandelier - as I have just heard - it is necessary to give everyone an opportunity. That's not true. We're expanding the area of civil society. Regarding the law, it was said to be a programmed bankruptcy. So, RTV, we've heard before that she did a good job last year. Really, she made 527 million profits. But it has 3.1 billion losses, so it has constant and does not decrease. It is interesting, however, that no one bothers with RTV trading shares, which is not - as I said in the first place - the authority of the public office. That doesn't bother anyone, which is extremely interesting. Because it's going - it sounds like it's going well. And we will continue to let him trade. Well, that's impossible! You're actually trying to prolong the legal situation. It's interesting that nobody bothers with that. They sold the shares, and we don't even know how; neither by officers nor by anything, nor is Parliament competent to know everything. It sold out, we don't even know how we hear the money coming in December or I don't know when, in the fall. It wasn't a plan - I insisted, for example, as a minister, that the plan should at least be made. They had a lot of time or at least the last two months to make the exact cut, where with this money, which is public money, is money from people who pay for television. It doesn't bother anyone. Nobody bothers with that. About 3%. So, from the budget reserve we did what no one had done before, but they were pulled by the nose in fact those who were obliged to get actually this 3% back. RTV was supposed to increase by 3% and it was said that they had to return it. Yes, please, if you're collecting signatures, collect signatures, and send the opposition to the director-general of RTV. Maybe it'll help. They have 773 million ready to be returned, of course. But they're suing. Strangely enough, no one who actually has a mouthful of it intervenes and does not make that pressure directly on television. At least we would have shown good faith. Regarding foreign acquaintances who have been here and made friendly suggestions - I must say, some - and some are authoritarianally higher guidelines and judgments. I have to say, these people were here as privates. To avoid thinking that they were in the role of some authorities and organizations that had some conclusions on this matter. That's not true. They weren't like that. We are a member of the European Union, and we are in no way violating anything. And they can't give anything because we're not in any way breaking anything. And none of the bodies of these organisations made any comments or findings as to whether the decisions in this regard were taken. That's actually how these were private arrangements. It is absolutely necessary to write laws in the interest of everyone and, of course, in the interest of the public - I agree. That is also our purpose. And that's what we did. Such a marriage - for the end - is very good. And I hope that TV, RTV Slovenia, the public office, will work successfully and therefore I propose that you support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much. This concludes the first round of discussion. As we can see, we still have some time. Forty-seven minutes. I therefore ask whether anyone else wants to discuss it on the basis of Article 71. Just a minute. Thank you very much. It would be easier to ask who doesn't want to discuss it. I'll read everything. Dr. Gaber, do you want to discuss it or not? Thank you very much. I'm going to read the list, and let me know if I've forgotten anyone else, again without academic addresses, without glamour, it'll go faster. So, the following you applied: Juri, Kontič, Kovacič, Potrč, Jazbec, Jerovšek, Ficko, Tanko, Grims, Veršnik, Rugelj, Kapuder, Testen, Koren, Horvat, Saiovic, Friday Miro, Gantar, Širca, Presečnik, Janc, Ljubeljšek, Štebe, Gulič, Hvauc and Jelinčič. So, in addition to Mr. Jelinčič, we came to see Mr. Jelinčič, and then Kangler, Ziherl, Sušnik and Hrovat were reported again. We've read Mr. Stabet before. Procedural? Tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u96	I propose that we all give up the debate and not make any trouble now, not to us, and we all give up the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u97	Look, in any case, everyone will obviously be able to discuss one minute, unless we exceed the amount of time that it is. I think that everyone can still cancel the debate when we get to him, so we will continue with the second round and invite Mr Yuri. Everyone has one minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u98	That's quite enough. I thank the Minister for his recognition of where the government and the current majority want to draw on the members and members of the new Programme Council and also the supervisors. That's what I've been alerting myself to in my debate. And here I am referring to my colleague Tank, who asked if there is any confidence that the National Assembly would still choose the appropriate names. Really, appropriate, but a question for whom. When you have Cyril the Evil One and Jožet Snoja, Slavoj Žižka and Tin Hribar, we know who you will choose, you will choose by the logic of the majority, and what Mr. Praise announced will happen is lustration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your time very briefly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u101	Please, only Mr. Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u102	The story of 3% already has history. At the time, as an opposition MP within the government coalition, I tried to get support for this 3%, but I failed. I was supported by the opposition. Now the roles have changed, and thinking has changed. The former opposition no longer supports the issue, and the former coalition supports it at this time. It is important to note once again that the constitutional decision did not prohibit 3% of the law, but set certain conditions to be met. And there's one more thing. These 3% of the funds that some have already received, and some of them will, from the reserve, thanks to the Minister, who suddenly softened, did not want to hear about it before - I hope that this is not a deal with regionals and locals to oppose the referendum, a possible referendum on RTV Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you. When I listen to today's debate, I can only be surprised by the debate between LDS Members and Social Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen, why do you judge others by yourselves? We don't have the perfidious intentions you attribute to us. It's just not our way of doing things. We respect the legal provisions and do not intend to violate them. Just because you broke them doesn't mean we're going to break them. We have no experience in the rule of the past, and why do you constantly attribute what you have done to us? Try us out and in four years you'll tell us whether what you're assigning holds or not. Until then, it is not proper for you to attribute to us something that does not hold true and that you judge by yourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I ask you for a little more patience and peace in the hall. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. There was a bit of a surprise why the debate was primarily about organs. Because it is the authorities that decide in advance about all the people who run RTV, and they decide about all the journalists. And through the composition and policy of the organs, the whole house will work. That's why it's so annoying to talk about why. Yeah, because that's the most important thing. Second. Mr Minister and other colleagues and colleagues who have so much criticism of our view of civil society, if they wanted to, could choose our amendment. We have proposed that the National Assembly should decide, but by a two-thirds majority, and the proposer is not a committee of the State Assembly for elections and appointments or a mandate-holder commission, but he is the President of the State. Why, Mr Minister, you did not support this, but you would be in line with all the European countries you listed, because only the way in which you decide is too little and means misuse of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I would ask that you do not ask the Minister and Mr Councilor questions because you have not applied and cannot answer. Mr. Jazbec. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Jerovšek. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you very much. And I'm going to express one fear from this town. In the process of adopting this law, the opposition has repeatedly expressed that it will use all energy, all means to prevent the law from being passed. There's my fear. For I fear that the opposition will run out of energy, without the means for the future. One party will need quite a bit of energy to regulate itself internally. I expect the entire opposition to continue to participate in this national assembly, so leave some energy to yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Tanko. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Grimes. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Versnik. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Rupar. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll use a little symbolism. I'll say it a little bit easier. Now that I have listened to all these discussions, I am even more sure how much we need television in Slovenia when it contains more colors, a cleaner picture and a brighter picture. Our citizens deserve this after all this time and with so much pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Capuder. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Testen. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Root. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Horvath. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I heard one previous debater supporting the law, of course, saying that we should give this new law a chance to be tested in practice. I must say that at local level 12 I am testing what it looks like if the media are under the monopoly of one side, and I must say that this is not good for anyone, not for the left, not for the right, not for our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Friday Miro. [[He's clearly cancelling.]] Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. For a little while. I agree with my colleague who says he needs a television that has more color, more sharpness, a better picture, better sound, he's applying for digital television, and I'm joining in. However, as far as the law is concerned, I must say that we now have a law on public broadcasting, which is out of date in many ways and we have bad solutions that will replace outdated solutions. This Parliament should do more, unfortunately this opportunity is delayed and unfortunately we will be discussing this law and deciding on it once again in the autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u115	No replicas in this case, no time, no replicas. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u116	Respectable public, respected colleagues, also respected public TV RTV Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u117	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u118	The ruling policy has decided that it is now the press. Fourthly, the parallel branch of power is falling, which is understandable from its point of view and from the perspective of the context in which we are currently in. It's up to us to stop it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u119	Mr. President. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished colleagues from the State Council! If this law is really as bad as you predict and speak and debate, I need to give you some comfort that in four years' time, the audience and the audience will also assess this story of the government and this coalition, whether it really sucked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Loveshek. He's not here. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Respectable. Just a summary from April 22, when I wrote something. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u123	Please, listen a little. Mr. Stabe has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u124	Political statements in a negative sense have certainly been in force so far, and it is therefore clear in Article 17 that there is a clear prohibition on who should not run for the Council of the Institute if there was before that a Member, a Member, a President, a Director, a Chief, a Mayor, a Director of the Administration, a Municipality. [[...]] And what policy we now have in the person of the President of the Council and the President of the Supervisory Commission, who is involved in public research and is also a visible member of the LDS. Since there is no time when this: I support changes in the law and regulation of the situation in the institution and better working conditions for employees, with the aim of a better programme and better and even more national content. With regard to the mission from the professional work - of course, there will be better opportunities now, but there is no time to say this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u126	I am against this law because too much and too rigorously restricts that part of the management of radio television that cares about the programme that cares about the exercise of public interest. Everything has been reduced to a director, who is also supposed to be a programme manager, and to a supervisory board that is supposed to take care of the finances. This is a complete lack of confidence for journalists, and I therefore suggest that we vote against it today, correct the law and do even better, from the debate so far it has been clear what should be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. A colleague in front of me mentioned that apparently the media are now on the move. I agree with that. It's the media's turn. There are many areas in Slovenia that need to be regulated, and the situation on TV is that it is currently a customer television that deals with a loss that does not carry out its basic task, that is, objective and fair information of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, and that we have a law that is a survivor who is obsolete, so of course this area also needs to be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Jelinczych the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if I might suggest you, on behalf of the National Assembly, buy two containers of those handkerchiefs, that some will wipe their tears with this serious process that's going on, and with these serious, tragic things, when some lose their positions in, say, RTV. I can't wait to be able to vote for this law and one day it all begins to turn in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I will also support this law myself, even though I am surprised that the state council voted veto, but I would like to point out that those requirements that have been raised in the coalition by the Slovenian People's Party have been partially or almost mostly taken into account in terms of the composition of the programming world. And I trust in all of you Members of the National Assembly that when we appoint these members we will reach a compromise and actually ensure that these members of the Programme Council, in accordance with the last paragraph of this provision, which provides for a uniform regional coverage of the Slovenian space, will in fact receive this. After all, I hope and I am sure that the coalition parties and the opposition will cooperate fruitfully in this and that we will also ensure this, so I will also support it. And I hope and I am sure that in the National Assembly there is enough wisdom among individual Members that anyone will want to do this differently, that we can also squander species and do so as is prescribed in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl. He's not here. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u134	That the changes on public television, which, by the way, we finance all of us who are connected to the electricity network, also necessarily shows the comparison that I will now give, namely, what it looks like to film a two-hour national entertainment concert in the public broadcasting arrangement and in the arrangement of a private television. Let me say that the relationship between people is 1:10, but the public television staff bring each one with their own car to have each light of their own man, each frame of their own man, that for these people it is necessary to have an open buffet and a cafeteria, and also this, though I know that the external expression of this is, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u135	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u136	How we mess with public money on public television. [[...]] To the public [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The radio, the television, that's why it's necessary to do something. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u137	Mr. Croat. And in the end, Mr. Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. I will be even more pleased to support this law for one reason. The minister has counted enough states. And if all these countries are undemocratic, if all these countries are biased towards the media, then so are we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with. Those who applied to the replica, let me just say that in the second round, that's not possible. Those who apply at the time, log in, split the time, round for a minute, so in this case, because there was no time, we rounded the two minutes per debater into one minute. Of course, there will be an opportunity to explain the voice. I therefore conclude the debate, and before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. The normal procedure, on the right side of the card inserted, must be an orange light. Let me say before we go to the vote or to explain to the vote that a majority of the members of the assembly shall vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of Slovenia for the adoption of that law, i.e. 46 or more. And of course I ask if anyone wants to explain his voice on behalf of the Group of Members, first and then individually. Then we'll do it again. This is where we agreed there weren't any closed circuits. First, I give my word to Mr. Kumar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Members of the Social Democrats will not be supported by this bill. However, I would like to serve the minister and everyone else who spoke about the public and the confidence and mistrust of this public with one piece of information, because you obviously do not know this information. So far, through so-called associations, civil society has appointed in its own way the majority of the members of the RTV Programme Council. Let me say that in Slovenia there are 3 000 450 of these associations, where there are millions of people, there are millions of viewers and viewers who pay, I think most of them are also likely to have this TV contribution. And to talk about trust or mistrust, it is said that by this law you deny this civil society trust to those millions of people who have had the right and opportunity to take policy through the national assembly or this parliamentary majority this right to decide on behalf of these million people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In Novi Slovenije - Christian People’s Parties today we will reaffirm this law and risk it [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u143	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u144	the forecast referendum in autumn. [[...]] Let me also say that we are surprised that the State Council voted veto on this law, and we are even more surprised by their argument that we have heard here today. The views of the parliamentary group have been expressed by our fellow Member Marjatka Uhan, we did not want to speak long and wide, because in fact this debate is kind of resisting us. We've heard mostly arguments, as we've been listening to them all this time. You could label them with one word "for et contra." However, let me tell you just one detail, which, if this television is as good as we've been able to listen to today, I have experienced this week that I will not go too far back. I think it was Wednesday when Amnesty International invited Members and Members to light a candle on the tromosta on the anniversary of the Srebrenica massacre. In addition to the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and the President of the National Assembly, there were at least 15 members from the SDS and New Slovenia and one member from the LDS, Mr Rudi Moge. I didn't know there was a code for how journalists were supposed to record. But since I have heard from you, Comrade Shirca, that they are not allowed either from a bird's perspective or from a water perspective, I think that was where the recordings were made from Ljubljana. Because when I looked at this video on television at night, in fact, none of the Members, because at this point in the National Assembly is very poor talking and it has to be said badly, there was none on the video, except, of course, the Prime Minister and, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u145	Mr. Sok, an explanation of the voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u146	I am explaining why I will or why the New Slovenia Group will support this law. I'm explaining this and I came back just in time for three days to tell you about one detail, how this image can also be distorted in the media. I wouldn't say that if it weren't for Shirtz's colleague with some code to remind me of that. That's it. I'll say it again. We'll support the law. And of course, if there is a request for a referendum, we will also do everything we can to make people understand what it is about, to go to the referendum and vote again in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you. Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we will not support this law. At the same time, I would also like to say that before you press this button, there is still a chance that we can work out a way together to work out how the programming board should be. Today, several times has already been said, and before that, there are options and options to preserve the important role of civil society in creating a list of candidates for the Programme Council, as well as the role of the National Assembly in the final confirmation of such a Programme Council. Such willingness on the part of the opposition, of course, exists. I'm afraid there's just some sort of negative arrogance of the ruling position that's not inclined to do so and that the train will move on. The debate on this law will not end today. It will start at the referendum and people, voters and voters will decide what kind of marriage they want and what kind of media house they want. I therefore call once again for this law to be rejected in order to agree that we will appoint the programme world in a different way, in a way that will suit both sides, and in this way allow the media space as regards public broadcasting services to be designed in the way that is good for a plural and democratic society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? Does anyone else want to do it on their own? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. Thank you very much. I note that 77 Members and Members were present. 51 votes against 25, which means that the law was passed. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 25.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you, Mr. Councilman and Mr. Minister. And we're moving on to 19. If you allow the agenda, this is for the consideration of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the International Convention on Maritime Resolution, 1989. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is to decide on the proposal for a law. Anybody want to explain their voice? I would, but I can't be vice president. Well, we're voting. I note that all 63 Members and Members voted in favour, which means that the ratification bill has been adopted. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to 20. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL OF LAW Please, please, for peace in the hall! We've got a few more points waiting for us. Proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia, Dars D. D. For the purpose of borrowing credit from the European Investment Bank for the Slovenian Autoways/Vii project, an urgent procedure. The draft law was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And I give my word to the Minister, Master Christmas, whom I also welcome along with my colleagues. I'd like to ask you a favor for the speaker's stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, and I warmly welcome all Members of the National Assembly. Pursuant to Article 6a of the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia Dars d.d. must. for the purpose of hiring medium- and long-term loans to obtain prior consent from the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by special law. The bill will allow the conclusion of a loan contract with the European Investment Bank of EUR 250 million, under the basic conditions set out in the bill itself and summarised below.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u151	Please listen to the minister, or talk outside the hall. Thank you so much for understanding!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u152	The drawback currency shall be the euro or currency of the EIB Member States not participating in the third phase of the EMU or any currency traded in the main international monetary markets. At least a five-year moratorium on principal repayment; then, the last instalment of principal after credit shall be paid not later than 30 years after the last tranche of credit has been drawn up. After that, the principal’s currency of repayment and interest payments shall be equal to the currency of drawing up each tranche. It's the last one. The interest rate shall be determined according to the currency and the type of interest rate for each drawdown, i.e. the interest rate chosen may be variable or constant. The funds to repay the loan will be provided by Dars d.d. from the means of concessional duty. With a projected loan of EUR 250 million, resources will be provided for the construction of the Maribor-Lenart motorway sections, Lenart-Beltinci, this is the Lenart-Spodnja Senarska stage, then Lenart-Beltinci stage of Lower Senarska-Cogetinci, Lenart-Beltinci stage Cogetinci-Vučja village. The proposed law provides the means to implement the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and the annual plans for the development and renewal of motorways. In view of the need for timely provision of resources, we propose the adoption of legislation by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The draft law has also been considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother and I invite the chairman of the Committee, Mr Kangler, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. At its urgent meeting on 5.7.2005, the Transport Committee carried out a second reading of the proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia, Dars, on borrowing credit from the European Investment Bank for projects of Slovenian motorways, as mentioned in the introduction. In the introduction, the drafter stressed that this law would allow for the smooth implementation of the building dynamics following the proposal for a law on the regulation of road sections and their completion within the envisaged deadline set by the 2005 annual development plan and the renewal of motorways. It is clear that last year, at the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union on the main road G13 from the Hungarian-Slovenian border to Maribor, freight traffic increased dramatically. For this reason, last July the government took urgent measures to complete those motorway sections by 2008 and not within the time limit provided for by the adoption of a resolution in the 2004 national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia. In the debate on the proposal for a law, the view was expressed that today's traffic frequency differs significantly from the standards that were taken into account in the preparation of individual studies on road sections. This was the only way to ask the Ministry of Transport whether Dars and he are considering any new studies that would justify the construction of the motorway in a full cross-section. In addition, the view was expressed that a transparent review of the resources already used to build individual motorway sections should also be provided. The Committee adopted two amendments, namely the amendment to Article 1 and the amendment to Article 2. In the light of the amendments adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a supplementary proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia Dars to rent credit with the European Investment Bank for the project of Slovenian motorways, which is an integral part of this report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Kangler. Would you like to continue with the report of your parliamentary group because you were the first to be written? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased to welcome the proposed law and we will support, agree to rent that loan or guarantee. After all, we believe that a highway programme is needed according to the structure and according to the proposal we have in the marriage proposal itself, especially the northeast part of Slovenia, as well as some other parts of Slovenia, is urgently needed. After all, such as the applicant, it is also found that, at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, transport infrastructure has become significantly burdened in some parts of Slovenia. Above all, I am referring to this northeast part of Slovenia. As can be seen from the proposal, some sections, notably Lenart-Beltinci, Lenart-Beltinci-Lower Senarska-Cogetinci, Lenart-Beltinci-Vučja vas, Lenart-Beltinci-Spodnja Senarska and Cogetinci-Cogetinci-Vučja vas, have recently been very burdensome and all policies that are active in the adoption of motorway construction programmes can be seen as being very burdensome for the fifth corridor, mainly from the east to the west or in the reverse direction, and that some sections, mainly in the Lenada region, are heavily burdened by the transition of both freight and civil traffic across the border of Slovenia with Hungary and also Slovenia with Austria. We will therefore be pleased to support this proposal for a given consensus, and we also welcome the fact that at these sections, as stated by the applicant, construction will begin as soon as possible and will conclude as soon as possible that this infrastructure will be used as soon as possible and will thus be released from the east to the west, without distraction, the movement of goods as passengers throughout Slovenia, from the north to the south, from the east to the west. That is why we will also support this proposal in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you very much. This was the position of the Slovenian People's Party. We continue with the position of the Slovenian National Party presented by Mr Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable present. The law before us will allow for the smooth implementation of the dynamics of highway construction, as set out in the proposal of the Road Sections Act, and in particular their completion within the envisaged deadline set by the 2005 Annual Plan for the Development and Reconstruction of Motorways. With the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union, freight traffic has increased dramatically on the main road G13 from the Hungarian-Slovenian border to Maribor. Much has been said in this mandate in this National Assembly. People who come from these places, which are directly along the road, along the current state road between Lendava and Maribor, can also say such things that because of the quantity of freight on this road they even find facades on their houses. In order to build and complete the road sections, it will be necessary to provide own funds of 12.3 billion tolars and loans of 72.2 billion Slovenian tolars. The financial consequences under this law would affect the budget of the Republic of Slovenia only if the guarantee under the guarantee law of the Republic of Slovenia for the credit mentioned above was cashed. We will, of course, support the law in the Slovenian National Party, and we will support it in particular because we are convinced that it is imperative to build a highway section between Lendava and Maribor as soon as possible, in particular to ensure normal life for people living on the current state road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u159	. Thank you. Mr. Rezman will speak for DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. At this point and a little later, we're going to be talking about the same topic, on a conditional basis. And in our Group of Members, we will both be supportive. This is a government proposal that we consider to be correct, as one that is worthy of support, which we must actually support because we are trying to solve problems that have already become a little too complicated. We support this from both perspectives; both from a public financial and a substantive point of view, why we believe what the government has written down to have the consequences of negative, therefore harmful, consequences that would be difficult to correct. Even if we do not want where this road will run, we know that so far the situation has been extremely bad and that after last year it is so seemingly catastrophic. We are therefore pleased that in some way the resolution on the national programme has been premature for as many as two years, and that is likely to be the joy of those who are there. The Government shall ensure that without this it is not possible to implement this programme smoothly and this is an attempt to prevent this interference. Because we believe in the correctness of this government programme and because the protection mechanism is also very complex, from the resolution through law, treaty and ratification, it seems to us that we should not have great doubts when we vote in favour. In particular, we are pleased that this law means moving to the east, means moving to that part of Slovenia, which is the least developed and which, therefore, is even more difficult, so important. Every day life will improve there, it will probably be an important incentive for faster regional development, also an incentive for economic development, and we are already expressing the hope that the government will come with a programme to advance the resolution on the construction of motorways in the Koroška work in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you. The SDS position will be presented by Mr Chernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u162	Nice greetings to all present! In a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia expressed its intention to build a motorway network, allowing for an adequate internal environment, in particular the interregional integration of the country and its proper integration into international road traffic flows. The construction of the Maribor-Lenart motorway sections 7.8 km long and Lenart-Beltinci sections with individual stages, Lenart- Lower Senarska, Lower Senarska-Cogetinci and Cogetinci-Vučija are classified in the resolution on the national programme. The means necessary for the realisation of the construction are provided by the law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads set out in the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia from the concession fee and the indebtedness of the Company for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia. By adopting the law before us, resources will be provided for the completion and completion of those road sections within the prescribed time limit. The funds for the repayment of the loans paid will be provided by Dars from the concession fee. I am personally pleased or happy to note that, as I have seen so far in this National Assembly, a number of theatrical forecasts have not been made, and we have also witnessed the adoption of the budget balance, especially by the representatives of the LSD and the SD, to prevent the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, to prevent the implementation of the 2005 annual plan. On the contrary, the programme is being implemented in the expected dynamics and we will support the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I invite the next to present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! In the Socialist Group of Members, we have been working to ensure that the motorway system itself is to the greatest extent financed by tolls and funds provided under the law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of motorways. Our view is that this is by far the most effective and rational principle of financing motorways. Of course, in the case of annual budgets and annual programmes, we are faced with the fact that these best-quality funds are also earmarked for other purposes. That is why we face too often to resolve the dynamics of the construction of the highway cross in the Republic of Slovenia with debt. And today's law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to Darsu for the loans leased to the European Investment Bank is one of such laws. Of course, there is another constant in these laws. Again and again, it is confirmed that the National Assembly lacks information on the level of responsibility in the construction of the motorway cross. Of course, this is the key information you always need if you want to monitor quality solutions when laws are adopted. We are pleased that a number of issues have been resolved in dealing with the working body. At the same time, it was also found that this section, which will be financed by this loan, was already credited to sections leading towards Pomur in previous years, and, of course, due to the delay in construction, this section obviously did not result in the possibility of drawing on the already hired loan. This is how we would like, in spite of all these warnings, the proposaler in the following laws to provide the National Assembly with comprehensive information on the state of indebtedness and, above all, to follow the dynamics outlined in the resolution of the national programme as well as in the annual programmes for the construction of motorways. And since this law allows the lease of EUR 250 million of credit for the construction of the Pomeranian arm, which, in our view, is one of those that belongs to the most priority group, because it is an area which is extremely worthy of such a link due to development differences with other parts of Slovenia, of course we will support this law and we also expect the realisation of this loan to the extent possible in those sections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you very much. And last but not least, Mr. Joseph Horvat on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government and Darsa, distinguished minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the 5th regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in April this year, the New Slovenia Group supported an annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2005. The discussions showed that the involvement of the Slovenian motorway cross in the European motorway network with the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union countries is strategically linked. It is therefore important that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia also carefully examine the financial resources for the implementation of the annual development plan and the renewal of motorways for this year. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia Dars d.d. for renting credit at the European Investment Bank for the project of Slovenian motorways seven for the construction of motorway sections Maribor - Lenart, Lenart - Beltinci in stages: Lenart - Lower Senarska, Lower - Senarska - Cogetinci and Cogetinci - Vucja vas. These sections or stages of the motorway will only solve the current dramatic situation on the G13 road, where only transit freight traffic increased by about 300% from April 2004 to November 2004, measured at the Long Village border crossing point. Based on the pressure of local communities along the G13 road, this is Lendava - Maribor, the former government has given priority in building the pomurski arm of the highway, the current Minister of Transport, mag. Christmas, he plans to build the foot of the highway [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u167	Please calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u168	up to and including 2008. [[...]] The conditions for the implementation of this project and the acquisition of appropriate resources will also be ensured by the signature of the guarantee contract concluded by the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank as a lender. This is a EUR 250 million loan, with at least a five-year moratorium on principal repayment. The interest rate shall be determined according to the currency and the type of interest rate for each drawdown, i.e. the interest rate chosen may be variable or constant, with a maximum of 13 basis points in the case of variable interest rates. The last instalment of the principal after the loan shall be paid no later than 30 years after the last tranche of the loan has been drawn up. In Novi Slovenije we will propose a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia Dars, a shareholder company to rent credit with the European Investment Bank for the project of Slovenian motorways/VII, we are happy to support. Our support, however, is accompanied by a sincere desire that the construction of the above-mentioned stages really takes place according to the timetable and, of course, maximum quality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And since this is an emergency procedure, we are moving immediately to another treatment. The amendments were not tabled. That is why we can move on to a decision on the law, because in the third reading it is not possible to table amendments. Then I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Before the vote begins, I ask if anyone would like to explain their vote? No, no, no. We're voting. Thank you very much. 47 Members present and Members present. And we all voted in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving to 21. POINT OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION LEGISLATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR CERTIFICATE OBLIGATIONS RECEIVED BY DARS D. D. IN THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK FOR THE SLOVENISH AUTHOROCEST/VII PROJECT, urgent procedure. As before, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted the law here for consideration. And I give the floor to Mr Gigi Lavric, Director-General, from the Ministry of Finance, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In accordance with the Dars Act, the Republic of Slovenia will issue a guarantee for this loan which Dars will rent. To this end, it is necessary to conclude a guarantee contract with the European Investment Bank, whose signature will be possible after the adoption of a special law. The law will also regulate the insurance, this is a way of paying the state in the event of a possible renewal of the guarantee. The Guarantee Act, which will be signed on behalf of and on behalf of the State by the Minister of Finance, contains a summary of the basic elements of the guarantee and credit agreement, the powers to sign the guarantee contract, the procedures for the possible renewal of the guarantee and the manner in which it is paid through a specific contract on the manner and conditions of the guarantee of the State concluded between the Republic of Slovenia and the Company for the motorways of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of this law. Adoption of the law has no financial implications. The funds for repayment of the loans received will be provided by Dars from the concession fee. However, the financial consequences of this law would affect the budget of the Republic of Slovenia only if the guarantee had been repaid. In this case, too, it would be temporary, since the Republic of Slovenia will pay all the amounts and other costs incurred by cashing out the guarantee on the basis of a limited contract on the manner and conditions of the guarantee. The adoption of this guarantee law will allow for the signature of the guarantee contract, which Dars d.d. will provide early access to the European Investment Bank’s loan, which will be accompanied by other financial resources provided by Dars d.d. in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, which provides, inter alia, that Dars d.d. must have before the public calls for proposals, provided all necessary funds in a timely manner, made it possible to tender for works on those motorway sections and to draw on credit in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Does the Minister of Transport want to add anything? No need, thank you very much. The draft law also addressed the home labour committee of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I ask the Chairman of the Committee to present the report of the Committee. Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Not to repeat, I'll be very brief. At its 10th urgent meeting, on 6.7.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for credit liabilities leased by Dars d.d. at the European Investment Bank amounting to EUR 250 million. The law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the committee, we unanimously supported this law, which will provide the necessary and necessary dynamics for the construction of motorways in Slovenia, with emphasis on Pomure, because we know and are all aware that the matter is extremely critical and that it is essential that this dynamic also be realized in practice. We have also adopted the amendment to Article 1 and then to all five articles, and we propose to the assembly that this law also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zagorac is already here on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law before us is essentially a logical consequence of the law that we adopted earlier, so it is to say anything else, as well as this time to say that, in the Slovenian National Party as before, we will support this law, which, as I said, is a logical consequence of the previous law, of course. With the adoption of this law, the Republic of Slovenia becomes the vice of Darsu for obligations under the credit agreement for the project of Slovenian motorways in the area of the construction of Maribor-Lenart, Lenart-Beltinci in the Lenart-Spodnja Senarska, Lower Senarska-Cogetinci stages, and Cogetinci-Vučja vas. On this basis, the necessary building dynamics will be ensured in accordance with the resolution on the national highway construction programme. As I said, the highway section in the area of Lendava to Maribor needs to be built and upgraded as soon as possible in order to ensure the peaceful life of the inhabitants of this section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Yelen is next on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the government's proposal to guarantee the Republic of Slovenia the credit liabilities that the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia leases to the European Investment Bank for the project of Slovenian motorways. In our DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the approval or acceptance of this loan means both for Dars and for the country, the marriage of the loan, an important source of co-financing, that the fifth transport corridor or the Pomur motorway leg will be realized in due course. We will support this proposal, although there are some inconsistencies about the credit plan that we think should now be addressed. In particular, they would point out a definition of the amount of the loan in which there is no clear and precise credit plan. How much are the principals, interest and costs of granting credit and repayment from the European Investment Bank of an approved loan of EUR 250 million? At the same time, it would also be appropriate to explain the favourable credit conditions, in particular the interest rate, if Euribor plus a maximum of 13 basis points is the most reasonable price. Such a financial document would, in our view, be re-evaluated and accurate and clearly stated in drawing only this. We will support the State guarantee proposal regarding the lending of credit in the DeSUS Group with the proposed amendment of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u177	Thank you. Since Mrs Possoncheva is not here, I invite Mr Starman to present the SDS position this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. The Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, support the proposal for a law because it is aware of the urgency of the accelerated construction of the motorway leg in Prekmurje, because the envisaged return of funds is not intended to directly burden the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the funds to repay credit are provided by Dars from the concession fee. We are also aware that the Ministry of Finance ensures that the commitment under the present law is in the guarantee quota for 2005 and in the framework of the law on the implementation of the budget for 2005. Of course, upgrading the fifth corridor is not only the wish of the Slovenians, but also the desire of the vast majority of the European Union, I think it is also due to the fact that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has been willing to listen and to give a rather favourable credit condition for doing this, this credit and I think it is indeed appropriate. Therefore, once again, the Slovenian Democratic Party fully supports the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I invite the following to the floor, Mr Franz Ferri Horvat, on behalf of the SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased to hear such unanimous support for this law, we will also support it, both Members of the Social Democrats. The fact is that it is necessary to borrow this favourable EUR 250 million loan for the accelerated construction and early completion of this so-called ferry line. In the assessment of the situation described in the introduction to the bill, it is necessary to add that the situation on the G1/3 road from Maribor to the Hungarian border is increasingly unsustainable, not to say catastrophic. Freight transport has increased threefold since entry into the EU in more than one year and continues to increase. It is therefore necessary to maximize the dynamics of construction and, if possible, to complete the construction before, from the previous and current government, the deadlines foreseen. It's precious not only every month, but every day. The current situation is a major obstacle to the faster development of the less developed Pomur region, an increasing threat to transport safety, people living in cramped settlements and especially children who go to school or kindergarten on this road. There is considerable damage to property and the environment on the road is increasingly affected. It must be admitted that the construction of the country is very late. Since the adoption of the national programme for the construction of motorways, the situation has changed significantly on this particular route, which means that it has worsened. In doing so, it is important to stress the positive fact that, at the last moment in 2004, the previous government was aware of the problem and that the implementation of the project is being promoted by the current government with the extremely intensive engagement of Dars and also by local factors. In addition to speeding up the construction of the foothill of the motorway, lending will allow greater investment from budgetary resources in urgent short-term measures to improve the situation on the current overloaded road. These measures pose a particular problem, requiring local communities to co-finance 55 per cent, which they cannot and are also unfair. Borrowing credit will indirectly facilitate and accelerate the construction and modernisation of other state roads. This will prevent Slovenia from threatening traffic isolation in relation to the competitive roads of other countries, in particular in neighbouring countries, and will make better use of its geotransmission situation, such as the importance for Luka Koper, for more coherent regional development and so on. Let me conclude, I also believe that, in addition to renting this loan, it will be necessary to speed up and strengthen activities to obtain funds from the European Union funds, to which the Prime Minister has also positively identified himself in response to my question at this meeting on 11.7.2005. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Testen is next on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u182	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members. In this bill, it must first be said that the funds for which the guarantee is given are intended for the Lenart-Beltinci motorway leg, that is to say to that leg in Pomurje, which, due to a marked increase in traffic, has been moved from 2010 to 2008. In New Slovenia, we believe that the government has done the right thing because it has given priority to this construction and we will therefore support the guarantee law of the Republic of Slovenia. The credit that the DARS will rent to the European Investment Bank of EUR 250 million is accompanied by interest under the most favourable conditions so far. Moratorium 5 years, the last instalment of head payments after the loan is due not later than 30 years after the last tranche of credit was drawn. The creditor shall also have the possibility of drawing credit on a single tranche, in any currency and each tranche shall have the option of deciding on a variable or a fixed interest rate. In the event that the DARS does not settle its credit obligations, the Republic of Slovenia will pay these liabilities instead of the DARS. Such payment is only temporary, since the Republic of Slovenia, under a specific contract on the manner and conditions of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia concluded under this Act by the Minister of Finance and the DARS, is entitled to repress the interest paid and any costs incurred in this regard. In New Slovenia we will support the guarantee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u183	Thank you very much and last Mr Kangler on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. As was the view of the Group on the previous proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee, the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group on this law is exactly the same. We welcome the fact that the government has prepared, prepared well the basic law, the proposal for a guarantee law, and in this way we provide 250 million euro of the loan hired to start the construction of these most secure sections, such as sections from Maribor to Prekmurje and against the Hungarian border, according to all regulations and other normative acts. Therefore, we will also be pleased to fully support this proposal of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We're moving to second reading. There are no amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the law because it is not possible to invest in the third reading of amendments. I'm informing you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Anybody want to explain their voice? Nobody. We're voting. Thank you. 51 Members and Members present. And all for it. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] The law was adopted unanimously. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And I move on to point 21.a - Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of the Republic of Slovenia for the Obligations of the Public Agency for Railway Traffic from the Titles of the Loans hired for the provision of own contribution in 2005 for projects implemented under the framework of the Investment Programme, co-financed by the European Union, and for the purpose of covering the costs of payment from the Credit Agency for Railway Traffic for the maintenance and investment of railway infrastructure in 2003 and 2004, urgent procedure. The bill shall be tabled in an urgent manner. It has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I give the floor to its representative, Master Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! By this law, the Republic of Slovenia guarantees the liabilities of the Railway Agency for credits up to a total of 7 billion 995 million and 380 thousand tolars, with corresponding interest and credit costs. As the liquidity indebtedness of the Railway Agency in the single treasury account system of the State is foreseen, the text also provides that the funds drawn up are intended first to pay the total liabilities of the liquidity indebtedness. In a way, the law solves two problems. First, the credit will be spent by the Agency to pay its own participation in projects implemented under the Investment Programme co-financed by the European Union. These are projects from Phare, cohesion and TEN-T, on the basis of financial memorandums signed between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Commission, and of course also decisions issued or based on the placement of projects in the Cohesion Fund reference framework. It must be said that work on individual projects has already been carried out and European funds have already been used up for these projects. However, since all contractual obligations are not settled in due time, the Agency remains at risk of termination of individual signed contracts and even termination of certain projects. This means, therefore, that the European Union's requests for reimbursement of the funds already paid may result in interest and further inability to pay the implementation contracts, but of course the long-term consequences of the following requests for funds from the European Union. The second problem that this law solves is also the repayment of the liabilities under the leased loans in 2003 and 2004. Therefore, by means of this law and the provision of these funds, we will also ensure that the funds are reimbursed for this purpose. Maybe more, what's going on with the projects for which the loan will be spent. These are projects Cross summit, completion of works, then modernisation of signal-safety devices on the route of Koper-Divič, upgrade of Ljubljana-Maribor, these are signal-safety devices and raise speeds, on the project Prague-Ormož for SESV and TK systems as well as construction works. Then it is the sections of Koper-Divič, existing track, preparation of project documentation, remote management of stable electrical tractor devices, that is, preparation of the project, then Koper-Divič, second track, documentation, Pragersko-Hodoš, documentation, Pragersko-Ormož, here is the so-called LOT 2, update of signal-safety devices. As I mentioned, this is the total of 7 billion 900. The difference is also in the second part of interest and principals and in the payment of liabilities from leased loans of 1.6 billion. Maybe one last piece of information. The loan will be leased under the following basic conditions. Credits can be rented in several parts. The amount of the interest rate and the cost of the credit must be comparable to that of the interest rate and the cost of the loan with the State guarantee. The maturity of the loan shall be no more than 20 years, including the main two-year moratorium on repayment, and the deadline for drawing up credits shall be until the end of 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Minister. The proposal for a law also addressed the parent working body, the Transport Committee. I ask the Committee member, Mr Hvac, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At its 9th urgent meeting, on 13.7.2005, the Transport Committee held a second reading of the draft law with this slightly longer title, which the College has placed under urgent procedure. The legislative and legal service of 12.7.2005 also forwarded written opinions to the proposed law. In a complementary explanation of the bill's proposal, the representative of the proposed bill stressed that the basic purpose of the law is the guarantee of Slovenia for the public service's credit obligations up to a total of EUR 7 billion 595 million, with the corresponding interest and costs. In particular, it was pointed out that the content of the law was linked to the obligation of the APL, for which resources could not be provided in the 2005 budget rebalancing. The funds will be used to repay the obligation to participate in projects of common European policies. It has also been pointed out that if we do not adopt the law in a timely manner, this will also cause great damage because projects will stop and some of the funds already received will have to be returned to the European Union. The law also received comments from the legal and legislative service, in particular a few general comments on the role of the Agency in providing funds. The question on this and in what way will the AALW acquire funds and also what is the relationship of the projects to be financed by these funds to the national rail infrastructure development programme and the infrastructure maintenance and construction plan for 2004 and 2005. And also two specific comments to paragraphs 1 and 6. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed their full support for the adoption of the bill. At the same time, they considered that the proposal for a law was essential in order to provide funds for the implementation of the programme as railway infrastructure managers and to enable it to carry out legitimate tasks. The members also stressed that, although this proposal does address state rail infrastructure projects and that most of these projects are not from today, some have already been subject to financial memoranda and contracts between Slovenia and the European Commission since 1999-2001 and also 2003. At the same time, it was also suggested that the funds provided for in this proposal would not be sufficient for all the projects to be carried out on individual parts of Slovenian railways. The representative of the applicant also explained in the additional explanation why a short-term liquidity debt had been incurred at the treasury, namely that such a decision was necessary in order not to interrupt work that was currently under way or that recovery procedures from the European Union would not be necessary. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following amendments, as of Article 1. In Article 1, paragraph 1, the word "investment maintenance" is replaced by "modernisation". And to the title, the title of the bill is amended by replacing the word "investment maintenance" with the word "modernisation". Both amendments follow the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. After the discussion on the articles of the draft law and the discussion and vote on the amendments to the Committee in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee voted on all the articles of the draft law together and adopted them together without a vote against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the delegations: the first is Mr Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u190	Without any particular reservation, we could say that this is a matter of law, where we do not actually have any source, that we simply need to do so, unless we want to see the unpleasant and negative consequences that Mr Minister has said a little bit more about, and that now does not make sense to repeat them all. But perhaps it is time to remember how important it is to have well-prepared strategies, if we have well-prepared policies, including transport policies, and if we have well-prepared projects, that these negative repercussions do not happen to us in the future. We will support the law in the DeSUS Group of Members, and it is probably not necessary to stress it in particular, but we would still be happy if Mr Minister were ready to answer two modest questions. First time. In fact, what is the real source for returning this credit to the Agency if it is not just earmarked budgetary resources? What about the reality of the possibility of regression if the guarantee was cashed? Otherwise, let me conclude that in this way we will support DeSUS Members, among other things, by repeating what I have said recently, because it is about investing "in the east of paradise" - sorry, Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman, because the amendments have not been tabled and there is no debate so that the Minister will answer this question on any other occasion. Mr Hvauc is next on behalf of the SDS, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u192	Thank you very much again. So, I will present as briefly as possible the Slovenian Democratic Party's position on this bill. We will certainly support the law because we are convinced that this is the last moment if we want to carry out projects that are ready this year. However, as has already been said, for these European policy projects: Phare, Cohesion and TEN-T projects. Now, the question that is being asked - or earlier - is possible: if, of course, we were to delay this law and really deal with it five minutes before the 12th, I would like to express once again the satisfaction that the Ministry and Government have actually prepared this second part of the financial coverage of this railway programme in the short term after the adoption of the rebalancing, because otherwise we would actually have trouble doing it at all. If we do not do so today, or if we do not do so today, then the European Union should recover €16 million already spent, or this would further prevent the use of an additional €59 million. This is a major resource that is very difficult to obtain in the European Union, and it would also be necessary to give due recognition to the Agency which has made an effort and has actually brought these funds. But the question is why we are saving this situation at the last minute. The problem is that the 2005 budget, which was adopted by the previous Government, did not provide for a memento of funds to co-finance these European projects, even though the memoranda with the European Commission for these projects were signed in the previous years, as I mentioned earlier, even in 1999 and 2001, which only points to some relation to railways or railway infrastructure in previous years. This has led us so far that today we have about 80 slow rides on the railway tracks in Slovenia, that on the main European heel, the corridor is quite a nice stretch of track, where we do not reach the required basic pressure, which means that slowly Slovenia is beginning to avoid these traffic flows and what will soon happen to remain dead pockets on this European transport map. That is why we are confident that there will be a lot of debates around the railways and actually decide what we really want. Also in terms of European policy and the White Paper, which has given the railway an important role in the transport system, since, last but not least, Europe and Slovenia are suffocating in this road transport, which has simply grown so much that we also fail and fail to do drugs fast enough for the highway, which could also transport all this traffic. A systemic question is also raised as to how we will finance this in the future. We have seen that in the past the public, state infrastructure system has also been inadequate and it will be necessary to find a long-term systemic resource that will solve this problem for longer and more comprehensively. If I return to this law again, I will say: We will be happy to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kangler to the floor on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Dear Minister! The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the proposed law. As already my predecessor had found in the introduction that this law is urgently needed and is of the utmost time for the government to bring him into the National Assembly. Finally, with all seriousness and responsibility, it must be noted that because of the lack of budgetary resources in 2005, certain projects carried out within the framework of investments and co-financed funds within the EU are at risk and this is essential to ensure that these resources are able to draw on Slovenian railways. It is clear from the proposal for a law which projects are involved. These are mainly projects, both for the modernisation of the railway from Ljubljana to Maribor, in particular the modernisation of the railway infrastructure from Prague to Ormož and Hodoš, and in particular for the modernisation of the route from Ljubljana to Koper or Divac, which is essential to ensure projects that can ensure safer driving and safety of both cargo and passengers on Slovenian railways or Slovenian railway infrastructure. We can also look forward to finding out in the Slovenian People's Party, which is very important at this point and at this point also to stress that also with the field tour of railway infrastructure or through the Committee on Transport, the Slovenian People's Party also took note of the work of the Railway Transport Agency, which is currently based in Maribor. And in the Slovenian People's Party we find that this agency has so far carried out its basic tasks, which were given them by law. In some ways, we note that the Agency has prepared all projects that are financed and driven in any way to draw funds from certain structural or cohesion funds in the European Union. It is only necessary to provide our own resources to bring these funds back to Slovenian railway infrastructure and also to use them. That is why we will also support the proposed law and thus ensure that these funds are spent and that normal operation and funding, both for certain projects and for public railway agencies, is ensured.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u195	Thank you. And last but not least, Mr. Friend on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u196	Thank you very much. President-in-Office, Minister! Nicely greeted! Colleagues, colleagues! Today the operational capacity on Slovenian railways is poor, which also shows that most of the cargo flows to the so-called Pontebian route, via Cervignan, to Villach and then to Hungary. Ensuring the interoperability of the Eurotras system is essential because I would like you, Mr President, to calm down here, colleagues. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u197	Please! Please, it's a class, but it's a parliamentary holiday.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u198	Mrs. Bebler, are you coming? Will you do it? [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Well, I'll leave the microphone to you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u199	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u200	So, the obligations arising from the past and the previous government did not know how to settle for many years in its budgets, are here today and need to be settled in essence. That is why LDS, a respected Mrs. Bebler, is to a large extent to blame. As you heard, the projects were started in 1998. And until today, funds for own participation have not been provided. And the basic pressure that we have all over Styria today is not 22.5 tonnes, but it is much less, so we cannot sign the contract to the extent that we want it or our cargo contractually flows to the so-called secondary area. The borrowing of loans of 7.9 billion points to the seriousness of all the projects required, as set out in Table 1. In particular, I would like to highlight the provision of funds for project documentation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u201	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u202	The starting second track of the Coper-Beautiful. [[...]] So, in the Slovenian National Party, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I ask you again to hold back after my bad hour until the conclusion of the session. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We're moving to second reading. There are no amendments, so we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Squeakl, on behalf of the delegation or something? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u204	No, on my own. I'll explain my voice on my behalf. I can't support this marriage. I cannot support it because it is a new way of closing Slovenian public finances, which the government has decided to pursue after failing to properly prepare the 2005 budget rebalancing. I regret this new way. This is the way in which, in the eight days since 7 July, when the government intervened in the National Assembly, we adopted an important law. I think that if this government continues to address important development issues in the Republic of Slovenia, but does not harmonise these development issues within the budgetary limits, then Slovenia will have a very difficult time taking over the euro and, above all, it will be very difficult to repay the commitments we are taking in the coming years. The law, as it is written, does not say anything but that it will restore the state budget. That is why this is also contrary to European rules and will be among the public expenditure, following the so-called convergence programme, reporting under convergence programmes. What is best in this law is to show regulation in other legal systems of certain members of the European Union. And here I propose to the government, the Minister of Finance - and I have no doubt that the Minister of Transport does not want to - to consider serious sources for financing the railway programme. In this way, I cannot support the proposed guarantee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr Hwauc, in his own name or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u206	In your own name, if you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u207	Good. Can I have your attention again?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u208	I'd like to explain why I'm going to support this law. The main reason is that this law provides the necessary resources for co-financing European projects for which Slovenia has already undertaken commitments in recent years. Why were these funds not provided from the budget or from the balance sheet? Simply because in the 2005 budget adopted by the previous government, as we recall, there were not enough funds for economic public services [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I'd like to ask for some quiet, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u209	Please, just a little more!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u210	If anyone is interested, there have been insufficient resources to provide economic public services, it is said, for infrastructure maintenance, for traffic management and for passenger transport. There was also no provision for value added tax. With the balance, I think about 18 billion -- and I don't know if I've said it exactly, but it's a big number -- that these funds have provided, and there is no funding for co-financing European projects. And this law, which was not able to be eliminated by a budget rebalancing, has in fact eliminated this deficit in the 2005 budget. Because I think it's necessary, of course, I will support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, we vote. Thank you very much. I note that there were 59 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Again, probably for the hundredth time, could I have your attention, please? Mr. Kangler. We're moving to 23. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT TEXTS OF THE LAW. The official consolidated texts have been prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed without discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the law on the correction of the wrongs shall be confirmed. I suppose no one would want to explain their vote here, so we are voting. 55 present, 54 for, no counter. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The consolidated text of the law on the correction of wrongs has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the Act on Institutions shall be confirmed. We're voting. 58 present, 57 for, none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] The consolidated text of the Act on Institutions has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Period, mental-voluntary stuff. Under this item, we will consider four proposals from the Judicial Council for election in the judiciary, a proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of members of the Council of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, a proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing the National Council for Culture, a proposal for a decision on the agreement to appoint the Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the appointment of members of the Council of the Foundation and the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Request from the District Attorney's Office of Kranj for a criminal prosecution permit against a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. Firstly, the proposal for a decision on the election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly 4 proposals on the election to the judicial function of the District Courts in the District Court of Celje, Koper, Ilirski Bistrica and Piranu. The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tatjana Bezgovšek to the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 53 votes against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I now put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Barbara Franca to the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. We're voting. 58 present, in favour of a vote of 54, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that this proposed decision has also been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mirjana Reberc to the District Court in the Ilirska Bistrica District Court. We're voting. 61 present, 58, none against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] And I am also the final candidate for the vote to present a motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mojce Kata Ujčič to the District Court in the District Court in Piran. We're voting. Thank you very much. 61 present, 58 for, none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that this proposed decision has also been adopted. So all four candidates were elected to court at district courts. The next item is the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of members of the Council of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for the discharge and appointment of members of this Council was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And I give the floor to the representative of the government, Master Master France Bootha, Secretary of State. The word is yours, Mr. Booth.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u213	Mr. Booth, we usually go to a payphone on such occasions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The government proposes to appoint new representatives to represent the interests of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with agricultural land and forests, so we are talking about five representatives, while the other representatives appointed in a different way, in short, those representing users or those representing employees, in this case, are not proposed for a new appointment or replacement. Why and essentially what does the government propose, practically in the middle of the mandate, to replace the five representatives? In fact, the Government is implementing its agricultural and forestry policy through representatives of founders in the fund management body, this is in the Fund's world, and it is generally considered that these representatives are those who are actively involved in the work within the government or within the administration. In this case, we note that some representatives of the current Council of the Fund are in fact no longer active in the field they have previously carried out. Either they were doing completely different jobs, or they were once secretaries of state, and today they are no longer secretaries of state. Therefore, it seems logical for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to propose the appointment of new ones and the release of old ones, and I propose that this proposal be supported by the Government. If there's any further questions, we can do it later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The proposal also addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. I give my word to Mr. Sušnik for a presentation. That won't be necessary. There are no other panellists. I therefore put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the members of the Council of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. 52 present, in favour of 32 votes against 6. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against six.]] Which means the decision is not adopted. I'm sorry, it's been accepted. Still under the impression of the majority. The following proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing the National Council for Culture. The proposal for the discharge and appointment of a member of the National Council for Culture was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. I give my word if he wants, Mr. Sušnik, for a presentation. He's quitting. There are no other panellists, so I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing the National Council for Culture. Anybody want to explain their voice? Nobody. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The next item refers to the proposal for a decision on the agreement to appoint the Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia.The proposal was presented by the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, it proposes to appoint a mag as Director of FIHO. Janez South. And I give the floor to the representative of the foundation council, Mr. Miran Krajnc. Thank you very much for further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u216	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Members, thank you very much for your words. In accordance with the acts of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and Laws, two calls have been issued for the Director of FIHO in recent months. On the first invitation to tender, no one was selected in the second invitation to tender, but already in the first round, a mag was legally elected. Janez South. FIHO therefore proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to give its consent to the appointment of mags. Janez South for Director of FIHO. Honourable Members, honourable Members, Slovenian representative and other disabled organisations and humanitarian organisations operating at national level are of key importance, as a number of specific social programmes at national and local level are financed from these funds every day for different socially disadvantaged groups. We are therefore also in favour of the position that the Foundation should have the Director in accordance with the applicable rules, which is the case in the case of mags. John the South filled. Because he wasn't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u217	May I have your attention, please? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u218	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u219	I'm talking to my colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u220	We are therefore also in favour of the position that the Foundation should have the Director in accordance with the applicable rules, which is the case with the Mag. John the South filled. Since no real reason has been found against his appointment, we do not see any reservation to vote in favour of the FIHA proposal. Disability and humanitarian organisations supported the election of mags through their representatives. Janez Juga and thus expressed her trust in him, which he has already well justified in his recent short work as acting director. We express all our opinions in a meaningful context with Article 4 of the Law on Disability and Humanitarian Organisations, which defines the participation of these organisations in the formulation of national policies and measures to ensure equal opportunities and equal treatment of persons with disabilities and other humanitarian organisations. Dear Members and honourable Members! We respectfully ask you to express your consent to the appointment of the Magi. Janez Juga as Director of FIHO, thereby showing trust to disabled and humanitarian organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, allowing for the financing of specific social programmes, the regular functioning of disabled and humanitarian organisations and investments in fixed assets that enable the smooth implementation of all activities for the most vulnerable groups of our population. Thank you for your understanding and support of our candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The proposal also addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Sušnik has the floor. Would you like that? [[No, no, ……]] Then it's mag. A fairow on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. It also welcomes ministers and all colleagues and representatives of disability organisations and, of course, Members and Members. We have as many as 100,000 disabled people in Slovenia. What is the importance of the Director for their smooth and normal functioning, we have just heard from a representative of disability organisations. At the LDS, we strongly supported Mr South's mandate-holder committee, and we will do so today, because we think that the disability organisation that supported this representative of 100,000 members needs the right leadership to take care of it; it is already a very difficult operation. This, in particular, leads us to confirm that no concrete and reasoned proposals have been heard against his election today. If there may be serious and justified reservations, or if something is wrong with this gentleman, then please let them express themselves that we will be able to make decisions. Otherwise, I'm telling you, we're going to support him at the parliamentary club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u223	Thank you very much. And Mr. Kumer in the name of SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u224	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues! I think we are now at the point where we have a concrete case ahead of us, and we can get those words and things that we've been saying all week, into action today. I think it is necessary to say a little more about how this matter took place on the Commission's mandate. Of course, we do not support the Commission's proposal in the Social Democrats Group, which suggests that the National Assembly does not support the nomination for Director Fih. The relationship, in particular the seriousness and correctness of the examination of this proposal, was at least incorrect on the Commission itself. In fact, without a single debate, without one single argument or the reason why the candidate is not fit for this function, the coalition voting machine voted against this candidacy. At least what common sense and man would expect is that at least one in the name of all Members and Members, if each one of them has not had so much courage, explains why such a way of voting. Last but not least, it also requires the ethics of human relations when it comes to valid judgments about other people. In this case, without a word being said, there was a negative judgment about a man who I do not think most of him even knows in this Chamber. And when we talk about this particular case, there is something else to say. In accordance with the FIHA acts, two public tenders were tendering and, in the second attempt, one of the several candidates who also met all the tender criteria and rules of the game that were proposed within FIHA by the FIHA Council was this proposal. The mandate-election commission has spent five minutes on this and, of course, has rejected this candidacy, according to all these procedures. What can a person think about doing that and doing that? Not much. Especially if, on Monday, I listened to the same speech by the Prime Minister, who argued in response to the question that it was a major change in the staffing of this government compared to the previous government, to be recruited on the basis of calls for proposals. So whether it's double-crossing, misleading the public, or just enforcing the previously announced criterion on the political compatibility of candidates. Where this criterion can be enforced by a voting majority, this is done in this way, as it has been done on a mandate-holder's committee, where this is not possible, and that is where the legislation is amended. That is why we had the opportunity to see in three, four months because of this political compatibility or the incompatibility of the amendment of the four laws already: the day before yesterday we had a law on the prevention of corruption, today we had before us and we voted on the law on the public institution of RTV. Whether this is the same with the FIHO law, we will see in a short time. My prognosis is, of course, yes. Therefore, the Group of Members and Members of the Social Democrats support Mr South's candidacy as Director of FIHO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u225	Thank you. There are no other panellists. I'm asking if anyone else would like to explain their voice. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u226	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to say that I don't know Mr. South. However, I looked at the Foundation's minutes, both at the 16th and 17th regular sessions, and when I monitored how this procedure was conducted, that, after the second call, Mr South received support, it was completely incomprehensible to me, and today, in fact, it is completely again incomprehensible how the Commission for Elections and Appointments of the National Assembly rejected this proposal. In this mandate, we have already amended FIHO rules and rules on the conditions and criteria for the use of FIHO funds. We have done so for reasons of coordination with the legislation already adopted, and in particular because of the Court of Auditors' report. By not giving consent to the proposed candidate now, the National Assembly will also assume responsibility for the continuation of such a situation without the Director. That is why I think that the mistake made on the Elections and Appointments Commission - because we have not heard the arguments on the plenary today, although the representative of the largest coalition party has been reported for discussion, has not justified this - because we have not heard this argument, I would be very happy if the error - if the Election and Appointments Commission had been corrected today and to this end we also supported the proposed proposal for the Director of the Foundation by the disability and humanitarian organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u227	Thank you. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again to all present, a nice greeting. This week, we were bitterly opposed and faced differing views on political issues. Of course, the question we are talking about is not political. It is that 100,000 people who want to have their director will be easier and better off for a life that has not been favored by them, and yet, I am sure that before the holidays and for the end of the week, reason and humanity will prevail in this national assembly and that we will confirm to Mr South that we are going to vote against the proposal of the labour force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Unlike my colleague Germić, I knew Mr Jug well because he was shaking these parliamentary benches with me. Because of disagreement with certain moves in the LDS, he left the party long ago, years ago and is therefore not compatible with the client and I can say that he is a non-party person. And in this regard, I would ask you, because the Member, although leaving the party, was exemplary, sat in these benches, had a very reasoned debate, and also his debates had "a lot of salt in them" and he indicated at that time that the problem of disabled people was still well understood. I think that the disabled people of Slovenia did not make the wrong decision when they put my former client colleague in this place and also because of respect for the disabled organisations and understanding the difficult situation they are in, I will be Mr Mag. He's backing Janez South.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Fashion is not enough to say again what we vote that there will be no mistake. The proposal for a decision is positive for agreement, but the mother's working body is against this decision, but we are deciding on a positive decision. Anyone else? If not, we vote. 65 Members and Members present, 25 votes against 33. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 33.]] No decision is taken. We continue with the following point: the proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing members of the Board of the Foundations for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The drier announced or Mr. Sušnik announced the presentation of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u232	Thank you very much. The honourable assembly, the amendment to the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, which was drawn up by the Commission on Elections, is the result of a notification received from the Director of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia that one of the organisations whose representative is a member of the Board of the Foundation has ceased to act as a invalid, which is the reason for the discharge of this member. This is the decision to establish a Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted prior to the implementation of the Law on Disability Organisations. Therefore, the Commission’s mandate-holder for the implementation of the nomination procedure for the appointment of an alternate member of the Foundation’s Board had to obtain the opinion of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on who is the eligible candidate for members of the Foundation’s Council. On the basis of this opinion, an application was subsequently published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia for the nomination of candidates for a member of the Foundation Council, which provided that eligible applicants under the Disability Organisations Act are obliged to provide evidence on the granting of the status of a disability organisation under Article 14 and on the recognition of representativeness under Article 22 of the Disability Organisations Act. The Commission therefore concluded at its 10th meeting on 30 June 2005 that the proposals had been submitted by three proposers on a public call. One of the applicants did not provide evidence that the eligible proposer under the Disability Organisations Act was, therefore, unable to take the proposal into account by the Commission's mandate-holder. The Commission also took note of the opinion of the National Council of Disability Organisations of Slovenia regarding the appointment of a new member of the Foundation Council. Among the proposals that met the conditions, the Commission, by a majority of the votes identified, decided to propose to the National Assembly that, on a proposal from the Association for the Theory and Culture of Handicap, it appoint Ms Elena Pecarič as a member of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. On this basis, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt a proposed decision amending the decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundations for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u233	Thank you very much for the report of your mother's working body. However, I am opening the debate or moving on to the position of the groups of Members. For the pay phone, I'd like to invite my colleague Franz Sušnik. You're giving up. There are no other panellists, so I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then we move on to the vote. We're voting. 65 Members are present. 40 votes against 5. (The vote was 40.)(against 5.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the following sub-item: this is to address the request of the Kranj District Attorney for a criminal prosecution permit against a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The request was submitted by the District State Prosecutor's Office in Kranj for consideration of the meeting. The request was addressed by the Commission’s mandate-holder as the working body and submitted the following proposal for a decision to the assembly. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, so we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22(2) of the Law on Members concerning the request of the District Attorney General Kranj, KT 0152/05-3, of 26.5.2005 for the establishment of a criminal prosecution before the District Court in Kranj, for a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence involving a dangerous means of fighting or fighting under Article 137(1) of the Criminal Code, does not recognise the immunity of a Member of the National Assembly of Slovenia, Mr Paul Rupar and allow the initiation of criminal prosecution." We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 59 Members present. The decision was voted against by 55 Members, against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We are now moving on to Continuation 2. Agenda items - Third defence of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Peace and Security Act. The National Assembly held a second reading of the bill on Tuesday 12.7.2005. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. I also inform you that, pursuant to Rule 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure, the legislature and the Government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised because of the amendments adopted. Before we go to the vote, I'm asking if anyone wants to explain their vote. Colleague Žgeiner.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u234	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, allow me just a few words. At the time of the presentation of my position, I said that there is actually doubt in the Slovenian National Party about the pure political intentions of the proposer. For the novel can also be a fear of a politicized deal with vague consequences. In doing so, I stress that in the Slovenian National Party, from a social point of view, we certainly support this proposal. In the light of the debate or the proposal for a position, it was heard by DeSUS that these are the reasons why our party will not, in the interest of the pensioners, support the proposed amendments and additions to the law, despite the fact that the representatives of pensioners who will benefit most from this do not find the right words of support for our party or their party, which will protect and protect not only their rights and interests but also all citizens in the field of health, social and other rights. Finally, I quote again: "DeSUS would in this sense easily become a trademark of current and future pensioners and their permanent guarantee of rights". Say that there is something other than a pure political or politicized deal. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party because we are of the view that pensions must certainly be aligned with wage growth.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u235	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? My friend Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I would like to say the following on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club. No one is opposed to improving the income situation of pensioners. We regret, however, that no amendment has been adopted by the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament to ensure that as many pensioners as possible would be in a situation where the spending for which the ruling coalition has decided to commit it would be the most appropriate. The ruling coalition has decided to spend some 70 billion in this mandate to improve its income position. In view of the law as it will be adopted, this will be directed primarily to those who already have higher pensions. The Liberal Democracy Chamber Club cannot therefore oppose the law. At the same time, we wonder what the fate of further pension reforms will be. In this regard, it is extremely interesting that the government appointed Dr Igor Masten of the Faculty of Economics as Head of the Pension Reform Group yesterday, who stated in this law that he is opposed because this law actually creates and entails a headless indexation of pensions. So obviously, at this time, if the government's promises to be serious about reforms are met with a proposal for a tight pension reform. And at that time, we will probably return to this amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club and try to bring this amendment back, or in a similar way, to the largest possible number of pensioners a decent life of age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u237	Thank you. Mr Gantar has an explanation of vote. You're giving up? [[Yeah.]] A friend of Jazbec's? [[He's quitting.]] Comrade Gnyardsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u238	Thank you very much. The democratic party of pensioners will support this law, not for political reasons, but because it is in its programme and because the change in the reconciliation of pensions in 2000 was done without the consent of those who are entitled to their pension without much discussion and without barbarism in Parliament or in the government. And nothing else. We don't think this is the best solution, but we're correcting that mistake. However, I must say that in our client we have never claimed that there will be no need for any restriction in the pension register if the economic situation is such, but only if it is discussed and negotiated with those who belong to them and who have paid for them in this cash register. That's all this is about. Nevertheless, I thank Mrs. Tavšev for the ad she used to do for our client. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u239	Comrade Znidaršič, there is no debate in explanation of vote. Please, if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u240	Well, it's not a debate, it's just a thank you. In other words, we think that pensioners deserve a better piece of bread because they worked for their pension, and if necessary, they will also give it up, as they have done many times before. There is no fear, and there is no need to panic, not against the pensioners, not against the client who is trying to protect them. Thank you very much. The party will support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u241	We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members present, 62 votes in favour, none against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to Continuation 3. On the third day’s notice, this is a proposal for a law on working time and mandatory pay-per-view of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport. I'm asking for peace in the hall! On Tuesday 12.7., the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that, pursuant to Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law was not harmonised because of the amendments adopted. Before we go to the vote, I ask you, someone wants to explain their voice. [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to the vote. We're voting. 62 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to SUPPORT 7. POINT OF THE DAY'S LINE - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LOCAL LOVE LAW. This is the third treatment under the reduced procedure. I am thus putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party. Who wants a word? Peace in the hall, please! Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u242	Dear Members and Members! I didn't think things could end the way they were originally proposed. She was beautiful to be true. First of all, you're 25% of the quota. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u243	Mrs. Potrata, please allow peace in the Chamber, only Mrs. Potrat has the floor. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u244	which was proposed by the coalition, I stress, the coalition, reduced to 20, then inserted in the meantime a 30% quota and was expected to reach 40% in 2014. [[...]] But what was bothering you, your well-respected coalition colleagues, and unfortunately also your colleagues, was probably what was talking about changing candidates and candidates all the time. What you've just written down is 20% of the quota, and at least every third candidate, which means that at the age of 12, "if God is and luck is heroic," there will be another woman in the third, and there will be a woman in the sixth, and then on the ninth and twelfth, if there are twelve. But that means that the customer who thinks she's gonna get more women, that's more than 20 percent than I've listed to pick up all the world's cities. It's an optimistic prognosis. Therefore, do not be surprised if I declare that I cannot support such an amendment, that I will not vote in favour of amending the law, because at least what I can say is a marriage to what you are doing on behalf of the enforcement of the policy of equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u245	Thank you. The word is given by the Member of the Cvet Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The media predicted that today we would get an amendment that would be even better than the proposals before that. Of course, from day to day, and I will be happy that we will conclude the procedure today, because otherwise it would be likely that we will come to 5% every tenth on the ballot that I am grateful that today's day ends, because from day to day and from consideration to consideration, we have a worse proposal ahead of us. Otherwise, I don't know what leads to such a coalition, they obviously found that the media first sum up the first news, and surprised the Slovenian public with 25% of the representation of women and with quotas and, of course, with what is called a hindrance. Now this story, I'm going to say, is worse than anyone thought and it's obvious because it's Friday afternoon that it's going to go like this, quietly past and, of course, I think it wasn't just as coincidental as it actually was. Now this is actually the end of the clamp or it will be a double clamp in a Slovenian way, where every third wedge will be missing or will be with three wedges. However, this is certainly a matter that no one knows about a person or a person who is a person or a person who is no longer a person, so that is the end of the problem. I'd say so. First you offered a carrot, but from this roots, the carrot was left with only one hungry feather, which you also made with statements in the corridors and with many inappropriate comments that we received, made it quite "fucked" and also in some way destroyed. Thus this law will not be an honor to this House. I hope that someone will be able to write down that we are taking a step back, that we are legislating a substantial lower quota or percentage than we have achieved in previous elections. And of course, the fact that any third could be a woman seems to me to be beneath me now. I would rather see - and I will not support this amendment, but I would really like to thank the coalition on behalf of Slovenian politicians for this remarkable achievement in the implementation of women in Slovenian politics. It is clear that the experience of the European elections, in which you have contributed and chosen, in the coalition, or have elected the Slovenians three very good Members, whom I do not think have been a positive experience in honour of our country. Even though I think that both the public and the voters support it, they have found that the MEPs have confirmed that they are completely equal to their colleagues, of course this is very difficult, because in the past days we have heard many times in this room that women are only less able to have no defined affinitys that are needed in politics. Of course, it is a policy like yours. I guess there'll be no more women in this kind of policy. Women just want different policies, and we don't open our doors to this policy today. I have repeatedly said that it is primarily about opening up opportunities, opening up opportunities, and obviously the parties to this joy, despite the fact that it is a year and a half to local elections, this will, these rivets, this courage, they cannot. Of course, I'm talking about the coalition parties that brought this amendment today. But I'm glad they don't have DeSUS. And I hope that at least this party of this amendment, which is not an honour to Parliament and who is not honoured by our stated decisions that we want to change anything in this field, will not support it, nor will I support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u247	Thank you. Next reported is colleague Franz Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. At first, I did not intend to respond to this amendment, although I would now like to stress my support for the amendment. And it seems to me that the amendment as such is not problematic, but it is substantive and I can support it with all responsibility and seriousness. In order for my colleague, who also comes from Maribor, to laugh across the hall, I have to say that it would also be right on her side to say that she comes from the Maribor City Hall, that she is a member of the city council, and that in the Maribor City Hall in the city world, after I count quickly, there are 11 women among saints. This means that in some municipalities it is the responsibility of political parties to run for the highest places for women. Now, because there is no woman among the saints in one congregation to question this thing, I think that this amendment, which is written here today, is an amendment that in some way ensures that women will be nominated at least first or third, with certainty in the first or third place, with this amendment. If a woman is nominated in the first place, then automatically, following this amendment, if she is accepted - a man in the third place. As it says, it alternately assigns at least one third of the candidates per sex. It doesn't say women's sex, not men's. So if a woman comes first, she has to be a man in third place. And I do not see such problematic content in relation to the amendment to Article 4. And I personally think that this is a good proposal, because if political parties actually propose women first, it ensures that at least men will be third. And there is in some ways, as we have suggested, a guarantee in some way that women should be applied a little bit more in politics - it also helps to do so. I am, of course, stressing once again that it is the political responsibility of some local political parties, as well as the list of how and how they run into municipal councils. There are active women in some municipal councils, but in some, it is true that women must make decisions on a political path like this or otherwise, either at the local or national level.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u249	Just a second, let me run the session. Peace in the hall. You have not been appointed Mrs Potrata, so I cannot give you the opportunity to reply, but Ambassador Breda Pecan will be given the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u250	I don't mean to replicate, I just want to say that I am confident that everywhere on the list with 10 candidates and candidates will have two candidates, well-meaning colleagues from SDS, SLS and NSI will put these two women first and second and third will be men. Guaranteed. I am so deeply convinced of your good intentions that you give women a thousand percent chance of not doubting your good intentions at all. However, I think that everything has already come together through every measure - not common sense, but morality and good taste - and in particular mockery not from this national assembly, but from the entire Slovenian public. We've listened long and wide, I think the day before yesterday, about how it's not possible to find women on candidate lists in small congregations. In small congregations, if I know anything about the law, it is necessary to have the most - so there are 7 places in the municipal world and these 7 saints and saints are fighting in the majority elections, think. It's said that we're not talking about any contusions and about 40% on the list or 20% at all. This law is essentially not binding on those who live in small congregations and have elections in small congregations. It is all these excuses about small municipalities and the inaccessibility of women who proudly refuse any possibility of "getting married" with this policy at the municipal level at all. And that's why I'd say that if you decided to have a clamp instead of a clamp - because you know how fast it's called a clamp, I've never heard of a clamp that works on principle two one, two one. There's no such thing as clamps. Either it's one or it's not. Then it's a button. And for that, I would like to conclude, and before I say this to the end, I would like to tell you that it says, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Which means it's bad for someone who thinks wrong. [[...]] For this reason, I will now freely say here that the one who misinterprets or in an ugly way understands what I am about to say is his problem, because he is the one who is bad and who thinks badly. In fact, if we were to replace the zipper with buttons, and if it were at the end, after ten days of the meeting of the National Assembly, your suggestion that every tenth candidate of the other sex would then have only one button where there are ten candidates. Then, of course, it would be possible for the political parties' bodies to have as much free will as possible to be able to choose candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u251	We continue the debate. The word is Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u252	Thank you, Chairman. Obviously, this amendment has allowed us to test our rhetorical abilities, and if not the other, it is a pleasure to be translated into the amendment. First of all, perhaps the correction of an unnamed colleague from Maribor, in the city of Maribor there are 12 women from 45 saints, which is slightly higher, than, I have already said, 5 LDS saints, so this will remain in memory. So what we've been experiencing with this law is already on the verge of a farce, actually. I must say that I was among those who were surprised from the beginning, if I am not shocked to say that the ruling coalition has proposed such brave numbers, but this surprise has actually shone more and more than the fact that we received a proposal from an amendment from the committee, which has already slowed down and slowed down dynamism, to the fact that on the committee we have heard these remarkable words from Mr Fick about counterproductive women, to the fact that we have then experienced, you know, my thinking about how the coalition has a relationship to women. And today we get an amendment, which actually further undermines that courage. A man would say, "You've turned into pants." That's what it sounds like to me. There's something else that pisses me off. So, that's a nice look, you've ruined it for us. This patch has been used beautifully. What should we use now? It is not a hindrance, it seems to me that it is a clenching with broken teeth and these broken teeth in the grip of Slovenian women, respected colleagues - I believe that your colleagues do not attach to you - you have pulled out of the ruling coalition. Have a good time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u253	Thank you. We continue the debate. It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u254	Thank you very much. We will end this expression of counter-productiveity once, because on the basis of today's adoption of this amendment and then we will move on to the implementation of this law in the next elections. And what productivity or counterproductiveness will be like, then we'll see. I have never used a small municipality term that the problem is in small municipalities, because up to 3,000 people are really the majority of the population. I was talking about some areas in the country, and here I was thinking not urban centers, but rural areas. This time I thought very hard about how many candidates there were in my congregation at the time, and I did not find any of the 16 candidates. What responsibility do we accept with regard to the introduction or introduction of women into politics? With very great responsibility, but with very great responsibility also for the conduct of local elections. This amendment also leads us in a transitional period to a favorite situation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u255	Comrade Ficko, if you'll excuse me, you've exceeded the contents of the replica. You can apply to the debate if you talk about the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u256	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u257	And we are continuing the debate. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u258	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! What a colleague used to say about bad thoughts is not exactly true. Most of us have that joke when we look at each other's brains. The first one asks, "I know what you think of me." The other one says, "You should be ashamed." That's another word. The man who told the story here apparently forgot the theory of variation. He said that a woman could only be first or third, but no more. These options are much more, and it seems that the proponents of this mastic amendment have indeed taken into account that with great grace they have given women the opportunity to be third, but if the party is very good, perhaps in the first place. It seems to me that something is true in the explanation of this mastic amendment. He says that the first half of the candidate list provided for the principle of attachment, which practically means 50% representation of both sexes with or to the real emancipation of individual leaves. Here. Thus, those who proposed this amendment are against achieving it and have, with their benevolence instead of 50:50 with one of the first three - if the previous case applies, that only one woman among the first three - could come to a ratio of two thirds - one third. That is to say, this amendment goes to extreme harm in view of the opinion we have in this society, women. It is, therefore, a marked deterioration in the choice of women. That is why I think that this amendment, for the first time, shows the proposing attitude towards democracy, the proposing attitude towards policy of equal opportunity and also the proposing attitude towards women. For all this, I certainly will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u259	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u260	It is more than clear that I will not support such an amendment, and I would like to say why not. First of all, not because even though some people think the amendment is good, it's at least what's worse than what we've already accepted. This is the first truth she can't deny. Secondly, I would like to say that, after some have really talked about the counterproductiveness of women, for which I apologized, when some have really talked about not having them, when some have really talked about being inexperienced, it is important to say that we are afraid that now they will want to learn how to swim these inexperienced women, to swim politically. But those who fear inflation, don't be afraid, there won't be any expense. They will not be taught to swim in Moravian Spas or at sea, but at home in a laurel or perhaps on dry land.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u261	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Very briefly. Look, this law prescribes a minimum. There's no problem. If the client has enough candidates, he can distribute them completely differently, but the law requires a minimum. It is said that at least 20% of one or another sex, and at this point, if this amendment is accepted, at least third place on the list. I must say that I do not know why unnecessary municipalities would cause great difficulties in drawing up candidate lists. There's just no reason. But, I don't know, in our party, New Slovenia, we put lists at election assemblies. I think you're also doing this in the United List or, I'm sorry, in the Social Democrats and in the LDS, at the election assembly, not at what Presidium. And then, of course, depending on the composition of the membership, the list is placed, and it is suitable for those who vote on such a list. So far, we have not had much to do with how to put up a list, big problems. We wouldn't have any problems with this zipper either. But I can also tell you this, if we have - and in Slovenian legislation we have - the possibility of preferring votes, in this way it retains its function to lose. I think you understand that. In a preferential voice, he loses his post because he can be elected the last one on the list. And it's right. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u263	Please don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u264	I don't mind. The right voters, who will know when they go to the elections, how to vote, will have a preferred vote when they know how to use the list. And if any parties have to, then we must do more in this direction to inform people in fact that they have this possibility not only to vote on the list but also on the candidate they want to elect in the local, municipal or city council. For this reason, of course, we do not see any big problem and I think all these big words are superfluous. Once again, I do not know why we would make it difficult for the congregations to work and, of course, over the past four years, we have witnessed that you have imposed ever-new and new tasks on the congregations without at the same time providing them with financial resources; it is said that they have been disabled as much as possible so that they can function, and today we are here before new proposals of this kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u265	Thank you. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment, as I did before. But I would support this marriage even without these amendments. I don't think there's any need for us to somehow commit that it has to be. It seems to me that they're about to say you have to be, because you're a woman, we need to get one in third place. For our client and for the environment where I come from, this does not apply. We don't choose candidates by sex, that's what I said yesterday or when we discussed this law, and I don't think it's necessary. But since there are such requirements, I will support this amendment and also the law, and I hope that more women will be on our list than 20%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u267	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u268	Once again, I would like to remind my distinguished colleague, Aloys Sok, that the quota in question does not guarantee the election of 20% of women is not to be feared. He just ensures that he can be on the list or that he has to be on the list for at least 20% of the women. This means that it is only about opening up the possibility of running, and the preferred vote will then decide whether or not to gain voter confidence. So what makes this amendment seem like a marriage, as I said, is that a large majority of those who are here in this Chamber voted in favour of amending Article 43 of the Constitution. I don't know whether you're going to Europe or not, or if you're not reading things that are happening there, and you're not following that Europe is advising the introduction of positive measures to increase the proportion of women in politics and that we're getting from Europe I don't know how many times there are warnings that there are two areas, because the situation of women in Slovenia is under the norm, far below the norm. This is the area of violence against women, where violence against women is a major problem in this country and the second major problem is the small participation of women in decision-making. And this is about law enforcement, I don't know if you're aware, you're legislating something that's turned into its contradiction, something that's supposed to be a positive measure, you've now turned into a contradiction. And that's what I'm trying to tell you and to tell you that you should ever give in addition to what customer discipline requires you to think about. What we accept is a disgrace. As for the political games concerning the elections. I know a client who has run for the first place in men and two of those lists have been elected to the municipal councils, but she also named a list on which women were on, and I don't know whether she thought they would be elected from those lists or not, but look at him, "Cefizil", two women are also elected from that party. And that's how this client got stuck without imagining that they'd get the zipper. Not to mention, the lady in the second list has now become president of that first male list. So you know, the variation on the theme of election games is as much as you want. And you can get women tense any time you want. But now you're putting this into marriage, and this is this disgrace, another one of those we've witnessed to in this short period of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u269	Order! Peace in the hall! We continue the debate. Member Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u270	Thank you very much. It seems that my optimism and the idea that the coalition is serious, that he thinks what he's saying and that he does it, too, has no limit. Well, I must be honest with you. You surprise me every day. Unfortunately, only negative. Unfortunately, only negative. Because what you've done with this amendment is a real shame. Listen. We all know more than well what's going on. It is a deprived group in politics, and it is a desire to ensure as many equal opportunities as possible through a policy of equal opportunities. They'll never be 100% the same. Even this law does not propose 100% the same. And you are in the midst of constitutional solutions, you are in the midst of European practice, and we already have certain solutions in Slovenia that were close to these results, which are now required, fear. The fear of putting in place - and sometimes with great effort - I agree, and sometimes with great effort, and sometimes with confidence in some environment, that someone prepares for the candidacy. That's right. The truth. But all of this, if we have political will, can be achieved. I must say, you are light years from democracy and Europe, light years. And it is simply not possible to understand that such amendments are coming. We can laugh, we can be proud of it, we can't be embarrassed, but I have to say - I don't know. If anything were common sense, we should take a break, and once again, we are not too much forward, and let us withdraw this amendment. But if you're going to vote, it's a shame. I'm not going to knock on your conscience because you probably don't have it in this respect. But to let the public know what your attitude to equality is, thank God, I will help her to know as much as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u271	Thank you. We continue the debate. The word is by Mojca Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Chairman. All fellow Members and fellow Members are also warmly welcomed! I'll support the amendment myself. I'm gonna break the law, too. In fact, it is a major step towards women's participation in politics as well. It is not a problem of women's participation in politics alone. Of course, we are all aware together that the problems are both in science, culture, economy, everywhere, we are fighting to get our share in these spheres, especially in places that are more visible, exposed, leading, leadership, etc. Dear colleague of Orzmov. With this proposal, we are not closing the possibility of delay in any way with this amendment. Every sheet, every customer can put it in their list if they want. So he can still put women and men in the first two places. In my own name, I would like to say something that I would not run for office at that party where it would be a condition for a woman to be listed, just because it is enshrined in the law. It means he doesn't respect basic values, he doesn't respect women, he doesn't respect me. So, I don't see any obstacles to not supporting this amendment and thus giving support to the law. Of course, I also want all the colleagues who are in other parties to have the same opportunities as their men. Perhaps I also understand the LDS MPs, given that there are 21 Members of Parliament, women are 3. Perhaps this is a problem for them too, but I do not think that this is an obstacle at the actual level, so that women are not included in the right place on the list. It is true, as I have said, that by means of this law, this provision should be made a great step forward. And we're going to have to turn a lot into our own heads. And I would repeat the words set out by Ambassador Pecan: "He who thinks ill is weak." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u273	Thank you. Aleš Gulič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Chairman. Of course, I will not support this amendment because it has come to it: step by step into what we have learned today. Apparently, you didn't really care about how many women are running for office, but you were wondering what the result would be. That's how easily he'll be elected. And since things were just too much, you decided to cut it. First for the reduction from 25 to 20, now with a reduction that didn't actually keep the buttons, but it's just a simple divide, it's what it is, it is. You left things behind, of course not to the congregations and to the congregations we would not cause any problems to the larger customers. To those customers who see themselves in this way, it is men who can politically represent their women. Thank God Slovenian women are so smart that they can spin them, but yet, on a formal and external level, this is not right. I will vote against it, as I have already said, mainly because it is legal, not fraud, but moral fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u275	Thank you. Member Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u276	Thank you for your word. I would only point to the usual difference between words and actions. I'll give you two concrete examples. The first concerns colleagues from LDS who had so much to say, I will give an example of Kranj. We have five members of the city council, two of which are women, almost half. They have more than ten men, of course. The second case, even better, was said earlier, I know a client and so on -- remember who said that. Exactly the same party had a problem in the previous elections because its President, Mr Janez Kocjančič, was not elected to the National Assembly. And because he came to the National Assembly because he was the party's president, he had to withdraw the only candidate elected, the lady who is now the president or the president of the Ljubljana Committee of the United List today of Social Democrats. So much for the difference between big words and small actions, but in fact, history creates actions, not words, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u277	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Christian Janz.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. I will support this amendment and the law itself, especially for the following reasons. Let's get out of here. That's a big step forward. Today we have nothing, tomorrow we will have; so this is what we want and want all together - more women into politics. I hope that with this first step that we will take today, we will certainly do so. We have 193 congregations. Above all, those who really may have few more women already in congregational councils speak. What about those congregations that have nothing or have very little? From here on out, these congregations will also have to think a little bit more about this woman’s quota, the interest of getting women to the councils, the list, and so on. I think that step was very bold. Believe me, this is the only step that we will not animate Slovenian women for politics. He won't! It won't be enough. There will be a substantial number of other steps to be taken, at least in some municipalities outside of Izole, Maribor, Ljubljana, Domžal and elsewhere, there are 193. Believe me, there'll be more. And let's look at this whole picture, the whole Slovenian picture, not just some mediums. And that is why I think that this step has been taken and this stage is smart, wise and bold, and I believe that in a few mandates this picture will probably be better than before. I can boast of 25 saints, including saints, two are Social Democrats, and one is the Slovenian People's Party. Not enough. I respect them very much and it is very good to cooperate with them and to work with them and I believe that in these next elections, when they will, 2006, there will be more - I hope so - in other Slovenian municipalities as well, and this is what I want as mayor and MP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u279	Thank you. We continue the debate. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u280	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment, but I will not support it for one simple reason. In fact, I think that this amendment is primarily a disgrace to women, such as the disgrace to women in all of today's debates, which are actually going in the direction of trade in certain goods. I basically oppose quotas, oppose evaluation or, I don't know, mark 'women' quotas'. As I said before, I'm a woman. I don't consider myself a quota. Last but not least, I oppose this type of forced equality law, and in practice, there is no real will for equality between the two sexes. We've heard that words are not actions. I hope that you will show your respect for your colleagues and your actions how much you are dealing with equality in politics as well. I said I object to quotas, so I will not support the amendment, nor will I support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u281	Thank you. The word is Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. So when we changed legislation before the elections to the European Parliament, we adopted almost a majority consensus, where, of course, we increased the share of the option of emancipation, and which, in the elections itself, showed that we have three Members of Parliament today in the European Parliament from seven Members. Whether this was the result of the fact that, as observers, when we were seven men, in fact, at each plenary session, we were critical of the fact that Slovenia does not have representatives in the European Parliament and that, of course, in Slovenia, some things are not regulated as much as possible or as they are in many countries, in particular, in the countries of Scandinavia. Is this because we were afraid of these criticisms again, that today, when we have the same opportunity to do so again, we are doing so with significantly larger steps than is proposed here, as has already been said here, that we are actually trading. We are unable to do this for domestic policy, for domestic use. Of course, it is very difficult to add anything to all this, given that we are convincing the convinced and, of course, there will be no political will to do more than we could do. I might, given that Friday is afternoon, before the holidays, in view of my observations - I am the only Member of this National Assembly to have the opportunity to sit between the two Members. I have to say that I feel very well and today we have an opportunity for colleagues to take this opportunity to have that happiness, too, or at least in a larger number. And, of course, let us show that, I would say, such a society is a pleasant society and let us open the door to women in politics with significantly greater opportunities than now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u283	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Mohet.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Chairman. After a hard workout, there's a squad of soldiers heading towards the barracks tonight. And he remembers the officer, and he says to them, "Song." One said, "Lord Captain, can we sing in the tarts?" And he says, "Why?" He says, "It sounds better." And this one says, "Then sing it all in tercias." There's something similar about this debate. This is mainly about whether the client can place a woman in two places or the client has to set up. That "may" means that the law is needed for this, and that "must" says that the party is bound to do so and that's what's going to happen. And if that happens, this will give them the same opportunities as before. Once again, I repeat that this argument, what the party can do together, has been torn apart because the parties have not done so far, and also probably if the situation remains that way, they will not start in the future. Therefore, once again, this amendment, if adopted, goes against equal opportunities and is particularly to the detriment of women who are almost not in our policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u285	Thank you. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u286	Thank you for your word. Otherwise, I've read many of Grimm's fairy tales - it's by duty because of the family situation. I haven't read Grims' stories yet, but I would suggest to my colleague Grims, when he talks about electoral activities within my client, that, say, I should be asked something, and I would explain things to him, especially when it comes to a policy of equal opportunity. Ten, 12 years, that's the party's policy. And even in today's debate, you don't know that we are talking about opportunity and opportunity, it is said, about candidate lists, but not about the will of the electorate, which ultimately turns out to be the result. And to the end. That insinuation, who had to give up something. Once again: it is another political manipulation, insinuation and I would ask you to give your last name and name Kocijancič out of your chip. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u287	Thank you. The word is Drago Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u288	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members. I didn't mean to come by, but I still feel obligated as a married man, and with my relationship with women, I feel obligated to come by. I must say that I was particularly encouraged by Ambassador Barbara, because I must say that her statement would literally hope to be signed. Although I will support the amendment, I think it is unnecessary for women to have the same opportunities as men in their existing marriage. But it depends, I'll say first of those that make up the leaves. That's what I'm gonna say. It's from the customers who make the leaves. At our place in Šostanje, when we prepared the list at the last local elections, we had more than a third of them on the list and there were no problems with a third. I think we can sit down after the fall elections next year and see how many we have run for office and how many saints we have elected. I look at things like that, to women it's humiliating to me. For I take it as a compulsion, but every compulsion I make is not good. Even so, if this amendment were not or those changes that we are adopting today would not be possible - we have now prevented women from having women in the first three places, because there might also be a choice for such a choice in a congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u289	Thank you. The last one on my list, I'm sorry! [[...]] Before he gets the last word, Marijan Pojbič has it. Don't you? Excuse me! My friend Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u290	Thank you very much. When we talk about the list, about women's candidatures, because they are practically treated equally by both sexes. At least 30% and 30% of each sex should be on the list. It is easy and must be at least 20% male. So far it hasn't been, so far it's been possible to be 100% male or 100% female. Now that is the case, and I don't know why the debate is just about women, because it practically applies to all the same. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u291	Thank you. Member Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u292	Well, you'd expect the more we come to an end, the more clarity. It's not. Now I'm going to try to tell you why I don't think some people really understand what we're talking about. Here you cite examples of women in some municipal councils. We're not talking about those municipal councils. We're talking about those who don't. There we would like to ensure that they are also present. And there are about 30 of these in Slovenia. And we're not talking about one, the other, or the third party, but about all the parties, we should all be trying to do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u293	Thank you. The word is Boyan Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respected by the opposition, I would like to remind you that with these suggestions you are essentially reducing women's lists and increasing the number of men on women's lists. How will you explain this to your feminists, I don't know, but you'll probably have to do it in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u295	Thank you. My friend Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, I have no objection to women, but this constant emphasis on talking about those 30 municipal councils, where there are no women, has encouraged me to apply, not buy myself five minutes of holiday glory, but to advertise, as some do. In all these 30 councils, I believe DeSUS is represented. Let the women run, and there'll be women! He's probably represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u297	Mr Žnidaršič applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u298	Thank you very much. In Zagor we have only two cities in the municipal world - and these are women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u299	Comrade Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u300	Well, I'm gonna do my best next time, and I'm not just gonna talk, for those of you who don't understand, I'm gonna draw. I told you before, it's about all the customers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u301	Good. I ask further for a respectful attitude towards Members and Members of Parliament. And since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 4. We're voting. There are 64 Members present. 42 members voted against 20. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendment adopted would not be harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. 61 Members are present. 45 members voted against 10. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the law has been adopted, and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. The National Assembly is moving on to Continuation 8. Agenda items - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. We are moving on to the third hearing in the context of a reduced procedure. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Who wants a word? Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Of course, I first welcome that this harmonisation amendment has been written, because it has shown that our warnings have been that the new law on local self-government or changes would end matters and all articles concerning deadlines. Of course, there is also such a thing as to make things clear and comprehensible. Now, this deadline, which has been limited by the harmonisation amendment to the last three months prior to the elections, is, of course, amended: from one year to six months in order to allow for the establishment of new municipalities in the Slovenian Parliament during this term of office, and that this will be possible before the local elections. Now, of course, this seems perfectly legal to me, there are no problems about it, but it is true that this option opens up. What was important to me was that now, however, in that period, the matter was settled, as regards a collision of simultaneous elections and the establishment of new congregations.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u303	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 5. We're voting. There are 63 Members present, 46 votes against 7. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. I am informing you that the legislative and legal service, pursuant to Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has not informed me, nor has the Government that the law, due to the amendment adopted, would have been inconsistent, so we are moving on to a full vote on the law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. 61 Members attended, 44 voted in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 11.]] I therefore note that the law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before I conclude with the 8th item for the 8th meeting of the National Assembly, allow me to provide you with the following information. I would like to inform you that a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Robb has submitted a request for an ex-post legislative referendum on the law on Radio Television of Slovenia. Since the National Assembly is legally obliged to decide on the request within seven days of the submission of the request, we are already informing you of the following activities. First time. On Tuesday, 19 July at 12 p.m., there will be a College of Presidents of the National Assembly. Another time. The request will be discussed by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport on Thursday, 21 July, at 9 a.m. Third time. Thursday, expected to be an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly at 12 p.m. Nevertheless, on Thursday 28 and Friday 29 July, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will be scheduled. I also conclude the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with this notification.
