ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-10-SDZ4-Izredna-12.ana.u1	Ambassadors and Members, ladies and gentlemen! Please calm down and take your seats. I begin the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Anton Anderlich, Roberto Battelli, mag. Milan M. Cwickl, Ivan Jelen, Franz Kangler, Anton Kokalj, Bojan Kontič, Aloise Posedel, Maria Possonec, Pavel Rupar, Dr Mitja Slavinec, Aloise Sok and Franz Sušnik. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, Minister of Finance, Dr Andrei Bajuk, and the other members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the 5.10.2005 meeting. I have not received any proposals concerning the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Before we go to the vote, please ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, which means an orange light must be on the right side of the card. In this case, a vote may be taken. We're voting on the agenda. There are 64 Members present and 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 12th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2006 AND 2007 AND OF THE DRAFT BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2006 AND THE DRAFT BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2007. We are therefore moving on to the first act of addressing and adopting the state budget for 2006 and 2007 in the National Assembly, on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance will present a budgetary memorandum and a draft state budget. There is no debate on this presentation. I therefore ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to present the 2006 and 2007 budgetary memorandum and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-10-SDZ4-Izredna-12.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The 2006 and 2007 budget is proposed by the government at a time when, in addition to the current macroeconomic environment, the following broad circumstances are also important: for the first time, the adopted strategy for the development of Slovenia, for the second time, the reform package for the implementation of the strategy under discussion, and for the third time, the ongoing negotiations on the next EU budget or the next financial perspective for the period 2007-2013. They also have an impact on the budgetary environment: firstly, efforts to meet the criteria for taking over the euro, secondly, preparations for the establishment of the Schengen regime at the southern border and thirdly, unfortunately, an ever-increasing need for intervention measures due to the large increase in damage caused by uneven disasters, which is on the rise every year. The government has considered that due to some strategic unknowns and variables in the budget planning formula this year, it would exceptionally propose a budget for 2006 only, but this would require further amendments to the laws and regulations, so we have decided to remain in the practice so far, despite this problem. It is clear, however, that the 2007 budget will have to be adjusted in the light of the new circumstances. In fact, the government will do everything we can to make the financial year 2007 practically the first year of micro-budget planning, which will already be placed in a broader, more transparent and stable framework for Slovenia's long-term development. We're on the right track for now. The process was initiated by the preparation of a strategy for the development of Slovenia in the previous mandate. It took place through the adoption of this strategically important document and the preparation of a package of reforms to improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and increase prosperity. We're at this point right now. The process will continue with the debate on the proposed reforms, the adoption of the reform package and its implementation, the adoption of the next financial perspective or the next European budget for the period 2007-2013, and will conclude with the preparation and adoption of a resolution on the public financial framework of the national programmes. After the discussion and determination of the intensity of reforms, and following the EU budget adopted for the next period, the government will submit a resolution to the National Assembly on the financial framework of the national programmes. We will propose financially evaluated development priorities in line with the objectives of the Slovenian Development Strategy and the calculated public financial framework by 2013 at least. This will be a great moment of truth for all of us. Then we will finally face our future, better said with a real framework in which we can put our efforts to increase the welfare of Slovenia. We also need longer-term calculations for real and rational planning in addition to general objectives. We're getting to them slowly. Strategic projects cannot be planned from year to year and then continuously modified and adapted. A good example of how this is not done is the planning of a national programme for the construction of motorways, which has been highlighted several times from the beginning to the present. Nor can optimal development objectives be achieved through interconnected national programmes. Right here, the situation is still pretty chaotic. In the last 10 years, a number of national programmes or their drafts have been developed. In the figures, these national programmes or drafts far exceed our options in the coming decade. In practice, none of these programmes had planned alternatives, both time and financial, leaving behind a strategic assessment of the spatial and environmental component. The lack of this framework and the large picture are also a strong obstacle to the use of European funds. It is finally necessary to establish a basic order in strategic planning. In practice, this means that we need a framework with as clear answers as possible to the following questions: for the first time, how much our economic growth will be in the next ten years, for the second time, how much of what will be created, taking into account our intention to retain the level of social state achieved, the free investment resources for national programmes, for the third time, how much net resources can we expect from the European Union after years, and for the fourth time, how much can we owe in a given period within the framework of the European Stability and Growth Pact. The sum of our surpluses, funds from the European Union or from European funds and the possibility of borrowing together give us a framework that we can put national programmes into. The key financial provisions that await us in the national scale are, above all, the following: for the first time, update the railway networks. So the draft national programme has come up with the calculation of the nine billion euros needed for this project. Secondly, the upgrade and renewal of the electricity capacity and transmission network, thirdly, the completion of the motorway programme, together with the Firrn road, fourthly, the upgrade and modernisation of the network of state roads, where the third development axis will be the largest single supply, and fifthly, the establishment of a globally competitive school system, which could also be mentioned in the first place. Most of the other objectives of the strategy for the development of Slovenia are financially difficult, but they can be more co-financed within existing frameworks and also through a combination of private investment. Our ambition is that, in the circumstances described above, when we finally get a big picture of our potential for development in the future, the operational acts necessary for the day-to-day functioning of the public sector and beyond, to which this budget also belongs, we are already putting in place a broader project to implement the strategy for the development of Slovenia. It's not an easy job, but I'm sure ambition is real. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to introduce to you some of the elements that have affected the preparation of the 2006 budget, which are a real fact and partly for 2007 as well. The year 2006 will be a key year for Slovenia, in which we have to provide definitively all the macroeconomic conditions for taking over the euro. This objective was therefore one of the first priorities for the 2006 draft budget for the government. Slovenia has entered the European exchange rate mechanism, which has an important impact on public finance, wages and monetary policy. Our aim is to ensure all conditions - inflation, deficit, debt and interest rates - for the adoption of the euro in 2007. In the other budgetary memorandum, it fully assumes the definitions of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. It sets macro-economic frameworks and bases for meeting five key priorities: firstly, a competitive economy and faster economic growth, secondly, efficient creation, a two-way flow and the use of knowledge for economic development and quality jobs, thirdly, an efficient and cheaper country, fourthly, a modern social state and more employment, and fifthly, the integration of measures to achieve sustainable development. Despite some of the dangers in the international environment, for example, oil prices, which are not affected and which have an impact on our inflation, are achievable. With regard to this threat in the international environment, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development has built a projection on the assumption that oil prices will vary between $65 and $70 per judge in the last quarter of this year. The assumption regarding the average oil price for 2006 is 68 dollars for the judge and 66 dollars for 2007. It is also envisaged to maintain the dollar-euro ratio at the average level of the first eight months of 2005 and to maintain a stable rate of tolar-to-euro. Some of these forecasts are risky, but more realistic forecasts are unlikely to be made at this time. The forecast of real gross domestic product growth for 2006 is 4%. With the expected improvement in the economic situation in the international environment, export growth in most trading partners will increase, mainly due to slightly increased investment in fixed assets. This will result from the continued high growth of housing and the return of stocks to economic growth. The growth of domestic consumption will be enhanced in 2006; real growth of gross domestic product in 2007 will be maintained at a level similar to that of 2006, unless the active results of some of the short-term measures proposed in the reform package are achieved. At the end of 2004, Slovenia met 3 of the 5 Maastricht criteria, with the criteria for the stability of the Tolar exchange rate not being met because it has been participating in the exchange rate mechanism since June 2004. In the area of inflation reduction, it is crucial to ensure a stable rate, a gradual reduction in interest rates and a gradual reduction in the public financial deficit. These guidelines represent an appropriate combination of basic macroeconomic policies, supported by other government policies. In order to achieve the Maastricht criterion in July 2006, the government will therefore continue its policies already adopted, notably here with restrictive policies in the field of regulated prices and the acyclical adjustment of excise duties on liquid fuels within the framework permitted by European Union rules, thereby mitigating the excessive effects of oil price fluctuations and, in particular, their secondary effects. The decline in inflation continued this year, and even faster price calming prevented rising oil prices on global markets during the summer months and consequently increased prices of liquid fuels for transport and heating. Following up on the implementation of existing macroeconomic policies to reduce inflation and to a lesser extent to maintain the benefits of entry into the European Union, the 2006 average inflation forecast is 2.5%. This will enable the Maastricht criterion to be met in mid-2006 and the euro takeover in 2007. After 2006, inflation is expected to remain at around 2.4%. During the first period up to and including 2007, when the implementation of the short-term measures envisaged in the development strategy of Slovenia, and also macroeconomic policies, in order to meet the Maastricht convergence criteria, will be geared primarily in a stabilising manner, the conservation and economic growth plan will be around 4%. Productivity growth in this period will not significantly deviate from the growth achieved in the last ten years, even in the gross domestic product structure itself, there will be no significant change. The transition to a higher development level is expected after 2007 when short-term measures of the development strategy of Slovenia begin to deliver results. During this period, on the one hand, growth in exports or foreign demand is expected to be further encouraged by the implementation of development strategy measures by more competitive exports of products and services of higher value added; on the other hand, after 2007 there will be an increase in private consumption growth, encouraged by the effects of the first development strategy measures, which would also raise the average level of disposable income. In line with the increased competitiveness of the economy and the promotion of entrepreneurship, the most important measure in the field of public financial policy has already begun to phase out the pay-out tax in 2006. After a long time in Slovenia, for the first time, we are taxing or reducing taxes. Few words were intended in the past days for the abolition of this tax, particularly the possible higher rate of value added tax in 2007. As the Minister of Finance has repeatedly pointed out, this is only one possibility to ensure a partial loss of revenue in 2007. In the event of a decision on a more fundamental tax reform than proposed, the debate on this measure is, of course, unnecessary. Even if this were not the case, the government will first consider other alternative options for replacing income losses due to the abolition of the tax on paid salaries, the possibility of reducing expenditure, the possibility of increasing other types of income, and in amending the 2007 budget will propose the option or combination of those that will be most appropriate from a macroeconomic point of view. Regardless of all, the decision to abolish the payroll tax is a fact that will definitely reduce the cost of working with us and thus increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Your Honor! In the proposed documents, the projected consolidated public financial revenues are reduced by their expenditure. The budget deficit for 2006 remains at the same level compared to 2005 and amounts to 1.4% of gross domestic product and decreases to 1.2% of gross domestic product in 2007. The share of gross domestic product expenditure is also decreasing, from 26.6% in 2005 to 26.2%) in 2006 and 26% in 2007. The gradual reduction of the public financial deficit and the sustainable wage and price policy are key to meeting the conditions for taking over the euro and thus to ensure a stable and predictable macroeconomic environment for Slovenian companies. The proposed budgets increase resources to promote the competitiveness of the economy and investment and to co-finance research aimed at economic development and innovation, through which, in accordance with the Lisbon Strategy, we want to increase investment in technological development and to increase development-enhancing domestic and foreign investment; education resources, to promote coherent regional development, for civil policy - in particular through the promotion of housing - for investment in health and the environment and for the justice system, increased expenditure on investment maintenance and the construction of public roads in the field of transport infrastructure. Funding for projects related to the taking-up of international obligations within the European Union, in particular for the Schengen border and for obligations arising from NATO membership, is still increasing. At the same time, the country is creating the necessary savings by saving on its own expenditure on goods and services, employment and wages, as well as with greater transparency and rationality in the field of social transfers. For competitiveness-enhancing programmes, the integral resources of the budget increase by 32.7% according to the 2005 implementation assessment. In this context, 75.4% increase resources to promote the export orientation of Slovenian companies and 67.5% increase funds to promote foreign investment. Within the framework of the programme "Promotion of Slovenia", the development of tourism and hospitality is the most increasing means for marketing and development of tourism. The resources for the development of science and technology in the 2006 budget and also 2007 budget are intended to co-finance technological and information investment, the development and research projects of individual companies applied for tenders, support for the operation of technology parks, the development of services and equipment of technology centres, the promotion of business incubators at universities and support for international development and research activities. The funds under this programme are key to achieving the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and the Barcelona target of 3% of total investment in research and development, of which 2/3 of these funds are to be invested by companies. Local self-government funds are planned in the 2006 draft budget of 68 thousand 902 million dollars, representing an increase of more than 17% according to the 2005 implementation assessment. In the field of government services for local self-government and regional development, more than 17 billion tolars are planned for action in the field of local self-government and for the coordination of government and local level for 2006, representing a 67% increase in the 2005 implementation assessment. The increase in the planned resources is mainly proposed due to the proposed amendment of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, according to which municipalities have additional resources from the State budget to promote coherent regional development. The maximum share of the planned resources is intended to finance regional infrastructure, co-financing the implementation of regional project development, restructuring of the Sava region and some other programmes. In the Ministry of Finance, more than 51 billion dollars are planned to co-finance activities in municipalities for 2006, representing an almost 7% increase according to the evaluation of the implementation this year. The planned funds are intended to cover the calculated funding of a municipality of over 67 billion tolars, while the remaining difference is intended to cover the income shortfall in those municipalities which are self-financing. There is an increase in funding for transport regulation and control of over 300 million tolars, and funding under the rail transport and infrastructure programme is increasing by almost 6 billion tolars, in particular for the provision of economic public services in the field of rail transport. In the main programme, road infrastructure is falling by more than 13 billion tolars, mainly due to the reduction of DARS transfers, partly on integrated and partly on cohesion budget lines. The 2007 draft budget provides for an increase of almost 9 billion in total resources in this area, or 9% in relation to the 2006 draft budget. The smooth financing of the national highway construction programme will be covered from other sources. Social transfers in 2006 remain largely within stable frameworks. The additional resources are intended to promote the employment of persons with disabilities, which is why more people with disabilities are expected to be employed and, as a result, their increased social inclusion. Funds for urgent investments in institutional protection are increasing when it comes to older people and persons with special needs. Direct payments in agriculture will rise to 95% of this average in 2006 from 2005 to 90% of the European average. The amount of funds for direct payments in agriculture increased by almost 37% compared to the 2005 implementation assessment. Particular emphasis is placed on further support for enhancing competitiveness and structural change and the implementation of rural development programme measures, which form the basis of co-natural farming and the economic and environmental use of natural property, ensuring the processing of agricultural land, preserving cultural landscapes and providing quality and safe food. The 2007 budget also foresees and supports the launch of rural development policy reform. The budget of the Ministry of Health is increasing both in 2006 and 2007. To the maximum extent, the additional appropriations are allocated to budgetary items that will affect the reduction of waiting lines. The partial increase in funding is recorded by projects co-financed by European funds and the funding of programmes under Slovenia Transplant. The additional resources at the Ministry of Public Administration are intended to phase out the leases for the facilities in which the state authorities are located, which means the realization of financial obligations to the same extent but significantly more favourable to the property structure of the State. On the other hand, through the verification and reduction of existing obligations through the execution of public tenders or joint public procurement, higher efficiency and rational consumption are ensured both for information support to the public administration and in the real estate management segment. By seeking new ways of delivering the services provided by the Ministry of Public Administration to other public authorities, additional savings will be made and a relatively high level of growth will be ensured, both to the extent and in quality. An important segment covers the resources to build buildings on our southern border, as special attention will be paid to drawing on available European resources. The Ministry’s posts also provide funds for the elimination of wage imbalances. In 2006 and 2007, we will invest additional resources in improving the material conditions of work in education, education and training systems through investments in kindergartens and primary schools - here in cooperation with local communities, which will result in more money for municipalities - and investment and investment maintenance in secondary education. The funds for this purpose are increased by 45% in 2006 compared to the evaluation of the implementation in this year. The share of the budget for culture in the entire state budget remains at about the same level in 2006 and 2007 as in 2005, which is about 2%. In the context of the 2006 draft budget, several funds are provided for the restoration of cultural monuments, for the media, for the film, for the book and for librarying. The priority in financing is transferred to supporting creativity. Environment and space have more planned funding for 2006 compared to this year by more than 5 billion tolars. Most of this increase will be aimed at the use of cohesion fund funds to complete projects of cleaning appliances and collectors in a large number of Slovenian municipalities. The planned integrative resources, which are also higher for 2006, will provide additional resources mainly for priorities, i.e. compliance with implementation obligations, European environmental legislation, in particular waste water and waste management, water and economic public service, extension and complementation of activities in the field of park policy, rehabilitation of medium- and small-scale beaches, with the introduction of a mass assessment of real estate, and a minimum increase in resources in the construction of hydropower plants in the lower Sava, as well as in the provision of drinking water for the implementation of the first phase of water supply in Halozah and the portable water supply line for the municipality of Crno in Koroške and Mežica. The draft budget is intended to recapitalise the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. With them, the housing fund will provide around 200 additional rental apartments. In the event that the fund will also be allocated free of charge to the relevant land, it will be possible to provide around 250 additional rental apartments each year with the said funds. The available resources will approach the long-term objective set out in the Slovenian Development Strategy to build at least 2,000 additional rental apartments in the period 2007-2013. In order to further actively participate Slovenia in the multilateral environment, in particular in the EU, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the United Nations Organization and NATO, the budget increases funding for projects related to the taking-up of international commitments in these frameworks. As far as the EU is concerned, the budget must provide the means to prepare successfully for the presidency of this organisation, namely the funds needed in 2007. The relevant funds also require preparation for the establishment of our southern border and everything else - from the information system to human resources support - which is linked to Slovenia's entry into the Schengen regime. In 2006, we will also allocate adequate resources to assist candidate countries in their preparations for EU accession. At this point it is worth noting that Slovenia, with its World Bank graduation and EU membership last year, also officially joined the most economically developed countries on a global scale. This transition has brought it into a circle of countries that, in line with the commitments undertaken under the UN, must also assume their share of responsibility for reducing the differences between the developed and the underdeveloped and for more coherent development in the world. Providing international development assistance is an obligation that Slovenia has also undertaken within the EU. After enlargement, the new members committed themselves to gradually increasing the percentage of their development aid GDP to at least 0.17% by 2010. Accordingly, Slovenia, which currently allocates about 0.1% of GDP to development aid - it is said that a little more than half of what we are committed to - will gradually lead the policy of increasing official development assistance funds. By 2010, this is expected to increase by almost 5 billion tolars compared to last year. Your Honor! The government's medium- and long-term public policy aims to achieve a sustainable budget deficit and reduce the structural deficit of the wider sector until 2010. Our public finances are characterised by a large proportion of the statutory expenditure, which means that expenditure is highly unadaptable for a short period of time. That is also why some changes are necessary, and I hope that, after discussion, we will be able to achieve them in the proposed package of structural reforms with the greatest possible agreement. I believe that improving the competitiveness of our economy and faster technological development is our common objective, as it is undeniably clear that the only economic development can provide real foundations for increasing prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-10-SDZ4-Izredna-12.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. I request Dr Andre Bajuk, Minister of Finance, to further present the budgetary memorandum and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-10-SDZ4-Izredna-12.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! In accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act, the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007 are before you today. The adoption of the euro as a common currency in just over a year sets out a real framework for economic policy in all areas, in particular in the area of public finances. The draft budgets for 2006 and 2007 have been prepared in this respect and allow further important steps within this framework to be taken to implement the adopted strategy for the development of Slovenia. In this context, the draft budget we are presenting to you today reduces both revenue and expenditure in the share of gross domestic product. In 2006, the revenues will be 1756.4 billion or 24.8% of gross domestic product, which is 0.4% less gross domestic product than in 2005. In 2007, revenues will amount to 1861.1 billion or 24.7% of gross domestic product, which is still 0.1% less than in 2006. Expenditure in 2006 will not exceed 1857.9 billion or 26.2% of gross domestic product, which is 0.4% less than in 2005. In 2007, expenditure will amount to 1954.2 billion or 26% of gross domestic product. The budget deficit will remain at almost the same level in 2006 as in 2005, with 1.4% of gross domestic product, and in 2007 it will decrease to 1.2%. The estimated revenue for 2006 and 2007 is calculated taking into account the effects of the changes and the addition of tax legislation to which this government was committed at the beginning of 2005. These are changes and additions to the Income Act, the Income Tax Act, the Tax Procedure Act and the Value Added Tax Act, which the government will submit to this National Assembly in the coming days, and will contribute to the burden of the economy, the promotion of entrepreneurship, investment in research and development and increasing competitiveness. In addition to these changes, in line with the objective of increasing the competitiveness of the economy and promoting entrepreneurship, the most important measure in the field of public financial policy is the gradual abolition of the pay-out tax. Through lowering labour costs in both the private and public sectors, we will have a positive impact on economic growth, and above all it is important that by abolishing the tax, we contribute to the increased competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, one of the key objectives of the strategy for the development of Slovenia and as such the priority of this government. The draft budget takes into account the gradual abolition of the pay tax, 20% in 2006 and an additional 20% in 2007. An additional 30% reduction was also planned in 2008 and the definitive abolition of that tax in 2009. With the gradual abolition of the tax on paid salaries, we will reduce the government's revenue and partly the expenditure. Thus, the net impact on public funding balances in 2006 is minus 18 billion and 39.3 billion in 2007 and 73.8 billion in 2008 and 113.3 in 2009. In 2006, we will have to replace the tax on paid salaries by lower expenditure on the implementation of restrictive human resources policy and the enforcement of a number of austerity measures that will allow us to significantly reduce funds for material costs. The 2007 revenue outage of 39.3 billion is also intended to be offset by lower expenditure, together with possible additional resources. One option is to increase the VAT rate in 2007. The 2007 draft budget thus included the assumption of an increase in the VAT rate from 20 to 21 or a reduction in the rate from 8.5 to 9%. The government will examine and compare the calculation of financial effects also for other alternative or possible measures, both on the expenditure side, of additional austerity measures as well as on the revenue side. Any additional structural changes that are currently the subject of public debate should be included in the financial effects from 2007 onwards before this action is actually definitively taken. The final decision will thus likely be a combination of several measures, both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side. When proposing amending the 2007 budget and drawing up the 2008 budget, these financial effects will already be known, so that, with certainty from a macro-economic perspective, the best option can be taken into account in the draft amending budget for 2007 and at the same time make the necessary legal amendments to this national assembly. The largest unknown in the preparation of the 2007 draft budget is the so-called European funds. In fact, it is the Slovenian funds that flow into our budget through the EU budget and are as much an integral part of our budget as our contributions to Brussels. Estimates of revenue from the EU budget and payments to the European budget during the next financial perspective are currently unknown. In the 2007 draft budget and the 2010 projections before you today, however, we have taken into account the financial implications of the last known proposal, which is to date not to accept the Luxembourg Presidency's compromise proposal for the next financial perspective from the end of June 2005. Unfortunately, there is no new information or compromise solution proposed to date, and I must point out once again that it can already be clear today that the 2007 budget will need to be updated once the key parameters of the new EU financial perspective are known. As regards expenditure, the budget programming structure shows that the priorities of this government are mainly in the following areas: technological development and the science support programme, where we want to increase investment in research and technological development in line with the Lisbon Strategy. Resources in this area are increasing by 21% in 2006 compared to 2005. In addition to this increase in direct budget resources, I must stress here that in the proposal to amend and supplement the law on the profits of legal persons, the government is planning a new special relief for private investment for research and development. We expect to achieve a breakthrough in this area and to contribute significantly to the closer links between the economy and the research institutions with which Slovenia already has its share, both in the public and private sectors. Let me also mention that in this area, in its amendment proposal and the addition of the corporate tax law, the government plans to maintain the current investment incentives. Promoting the competitiveness of the Slovenian industry, because we want to increase the competitiveness of our industry and increase the inflows of incentivising domestic and foreign investment. This programme increases by 24.5% in 2006. Investment in transport infrastructure, namely in the maintenance and construction of state roads. In the area of far too little attention so far, the budget increases by 63.2%, from 16.6 billion in 2005 to 23.8 billion in 2006 and to 28.7 billion in 2007. The government estimates that, although indirectly, these funds will make a strong contribution to the objective of sound regional development. Another important thing is the new way to finance the Company for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia. As you know, under the legal institutional framework, the DARS is an economic company operating under the company law. As such a company is not part of public finances, this has been examined by the European Commission through its representatives in Eurostat, this is a specific agency that examines these matters earlier, and also an international money fund. Both have adopted such an approach and respect this fact that the DARS can be financed by its own revenues and is not part of the public financial system. Therefore, the funds foreseen in 2005 from the budget, the transfers to Dars, to 19.1 billion, fall to only 5.9 in 2006 and 10.1 billion in 2007. To this end, let me point out that the Slovenian State's commitment is necessary to ensure the long-term credibility of such a legal institutional framework and to ensure that the actual means of tolls ensure the long-term stability of this society. Health care is also a very important area for which I would like to emphasise that in order to provide optimal health conditions for the funds in 2006, they are increasing by 32.8%. These are the urgent investments we need to modernise certain strategic segments of our health system. I would also like to point out that the gradual abolition of the paid wages tax in work, which represents a reduction of expenditure at the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, will already bring 1.8 billion less costs in 2006 which they will be able to use as additional funds to finance a new programme to reduce waiting types. The area of environmental protection, pollution reduction, where the funds increase by 36.8% from 7.7 billion projected in 2005 to 10.5 billion in 2006. In the area of the agricultural and food reform programme as a result of the European Union's common agricultural policy and in the past, the negotiated criteria provide for a rise in direct payments from the current 90% EU average in 2005 to 95% of the European Union average in 2006. Direct funding for coherent regional development, where we want to achieve faster development of all regions and reduce the backlog of the least developed regions, increases by 67.9 per cent of 67 billion in 2004 and 10.1 billion in 2005 to 17 billion in 2006 and 25 in 2007. In any event, it is particularly important to mention the financing of local self-government, both through financial compensation and through investment funds for municipalities. This is an area that is subject to the special attention of this government, as has already been shown in the 2005 budget rebalancing proposal, in which we have increased the principal by 10% compared to 2004. Glavarina will increase further by 4.5% annually in 2006 as well as in 2007 and will thus amount to 103.638 tolars in 2006 and 108.302 tolars in 2007. Given the expected rate of inflation, this is a significant and also a real increase in funding for the financial alignment of municipalities. On the other hand, and still at the local self-government level, the funds provided for investment transfers to municipalities are increasing already in 2006. That is, from 20.9 billion in 2005 to 27 billion in 2006. In this regard, let me just mention that these figures clearly demonstrate the priority of this government, especially when we compare this data with the actual investment transfers made in 2004, which reached only 13.6 billion. According to local investment projects that may draw on European funds, investment transfers to municipalities are projected at 57.9 billion in 2007. However, we must pay particular attention to the budgetary means envisaged to implement the constitutional principle of the social state. The government has advocated that the 2006 budget and the 2007 budget also provide the necessary funds for this purpose. In fact, when we compare the 2005 budget rebalancing with the 2004 budget implementation, we find that the funds for this purpose have increased significantly. However, an analysis of the 2005 budget implementation situation shows that transfers will need to increase resources for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs by 3.7 billion additional resources, especially in the area of social transfers to individuals, as the movement of the number of beneficiaries is different from the assumptions when preparing the 2005 budget rebalancing. That is why the government has decided to introduce certain changes in the field of transfers to individuals, through more effective incentives for the employment of recipients of financial social assistance and unemployment benefits, through additional employment policy measures, the upgrading of information systems that will allow for greater integration, transparency and supervision of social transfer systems. Changes in the valorisation of transfers to individuals financed from state or municipal budgets and from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, so that valorisation does not exceed the projected annual inflation rate for the current year. The same approach would apply to all those categories of transfers to individuals financed from the mandatory pension and disability insurance, namely that part of the pensions and other benefits that represent the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia for the recognition of rights under special conditions and do not have a basis in the labour relationship itself - protective allowances and also compensation. On the basis of these measures, the 2006 draft budget provides for 271.4 billion for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. This is 900 000 less than is expected in realisation since 2005. What still represents, however, the proposed budget for 2006 still represents real growth over the implementation in 2004. Therefore, in the area of transfers to individuals paid from public financial resources, we are proposing only a change that would simplify the system of valorisation or annual coordination for all rightholders. The uneven coordination of individual types of transfers to individuals for which there are no professional reasons leads to an unequal social situation for beneficiaries to individual types of transfers. Finally, the uneven and untransparent coordination of transfers makes it difficult to plan public funds. However, this proposal retains the real value of all existing rights. On the other hand, the draft budget for 2006 and 2007 includes all the funds necessary for the coordination of pensions in the framework of the amendment of the law recently adopted by this National Assembly. In order to address the housing problem, the 2006 and 2007 budget provides funds to recapitalise the housing fund of up to 3 billion tolars each year, allowing the construction of additional new non-profit apartments. Due to the commitment we made with Slovenia's entry into NATO, the share of defence expenditure should increase to 2% of gross domestic product by 2008. In 2006, expenditure on defence, projected expenditure, amounts to 1.73% of gross domestic product. It is also necessary to mention in particular the resources necessary for the Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2008. In 2006, 1.2 billion tolars were dedicated to this purpose - the largest part, almost 2/3 of them fall away from the construction of the new congress hall in Brdo pri Kranju. However, in 2007, 5.2 billion tolars were earmarked for this purpose. The government has already taken into account certain measures in the 2006 and 2007 draft budget that have a positive impact on the lower expenditure of the state budget, namely the reduction of public sector labour costs, as it will not increase the number of employees until 2008 except for the needs of the EU Presidency, which are fixed-term employment. In addition, costs will also be lower due to the gradual abolition of the tax on paid salaries. The measures for the functioning of the public authorities, the material costs, are being seriously reduced, reflecting the austerity of the budget. An active approach to drawing up the results of the targeted budget, in which budgetary users have identified the objectives and indicators of efficiency and efficiency of budgetary spending. For the first time, budgets are ahead of us, where budget users have clearly committed themselves to achieving their objectives, not all of them, but the vast majority, which have also been cited and evaluated. A comparison of the financial part of the budget with the planned objectives is indispensable, for which there is now a more qualitative basis in the budgets. On this qualitative basis, the final accounts of budgetary users will also be explained, making reporting to budgetary users easier. For the purposes of covering the budgetary deficit in the balance of revenue and expenditure of the deficit in the financial claims and investments account, the Republic of Slovenia will be liable net for 100,2 billion tolars in 2006 and for 93,5 billion tolars in 2007. The Public Finance Act provides for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit to the National Assembly at the same time as the draft budget, a proposal for a programme for the sale of state financial and real property. State real property is owned by the state under the law on public finances and state-owned property, and state-owned assets are assets, receivables, debt securities and shares, and shares in the capital of legal persons and other investments in legal persons, so-called capital investments. The 2006 and 2007 Decree on the State Real Estate Sales Programme includes proposals for which the legal authorities assess that they are enforceable during that budgetary period. The sale of state-owned assets in 2006 and 2007 is planned at an accounting value of 187 billion tolars. On the other hand, the sale of real property owned by the State is planned in the indicative estimated value of EUR 3.7 billion in 2006 and in the indicative estimated value of EUR 407 million in 2007. Sales will take place in accordance with the methods laid down by the Sales Regulation and other forms of disposal of state and municipal assets and the Regulation on the acquisition, disposal and management of real property of the State and municipalities. Under the Public Finance Act, the Sales Decree only lists capital investments and the percentage proposed for sale. For each individual type of capital investment, an individual sales programme of this capital investment will be developed before the final sale decision. The specific objectives of the sale of this capital investment, the specific methods to be used in the sale and the procedures and deadlines for the implementation of these methods, will be defined in the individual capital investment scheme to be decided by the government on the basis of the relevant professional basis. As part of the preparation of the individual capital investment sales programme, all necessary preparatory actions will also be identified following a careful financial, organisational and legal review and asset assessment and so on. For individual types of capital investments due to the wider macroeconomic interests of the country associated with economic development, maximising budgetary revenue cannot be the only key objective of sales. At the same time, the sale of these types of capital investments needs to ensure the achievement of macroeconomic objectives, in particular achieving sustainable and stable economic growth, improving the quality and capacity of public services and ensuring a more efficient and competitive economy. Dear Members and Members! Finally, I would like to stress once again the uncertainty that we are facing for 2007 due to a new financial perspective that is not yet known and which will certainly require the preparation of amending the 2007 budget. The abolition of taxes on paid wages is a major step that will help to increase the competitiveness of our economy. Although there has been broad consensus in both the general public and the professional public for a long time, the state has not yet implemented this step. I would also like to point out once again that the austerity measures already mentioned are sufficient grounds for implementing the first step towards phasing out this tax. In the coming year, the government will identify what action or combination of measures is most appropriate from a macroeconomic point of view for the next step in 2007. The 2006 budget is a good budget that reflects the priorities we have set ourselves both in the area of taking over the euro and in the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. For 2007, however, I can say that in the context of the known facts that we have been able to take into account, it is also a good budget, which will need to be updated in due time because of unknown facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-10-SDZ4-Izredna-12.ana.u5	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the presentation of the 2006 and 2007 budgetary memorandum and proposals for state budgets. I am informing the Chamber of State that today's deadline for making amendments to the draft state budget is beginning. Members, Members' groups and interested working bodies may submit amendments up to and including Thursday, 20 October 2005. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
