ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Franz Capuder, Master of Milan M. Zvikl from 2 p.m. on, Milan Jerič for the beginning of the session, Drago Koren, Master of Janez Kramberger, Master of Majda Potrata, Jakob Preseknik, Marjetka Uhan, Flower of Zalokar Orazem, Bogomir Zamernik. With regard to the 14th item of the agenda - this is by means of a proposal for a law on the non-compatibility of performing a public function with a profitable activity, I inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mr France Tsukjati, on 28.11.2005, has set a time limit for collecting the signatures of voters to support the call for a preliminary legislative referendum, so the National Assembly will consider this proposal for a law once the legal and commercial conditions are met. We're moving on to 10. Period of the day - that's a second defensively proposed bill on the information officer. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. I salute Mr. Minister, Dr. Gregor Virant, and give him my word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen. The current legislation provides for two separate bodies, two separate institutions for two areas. This is the first time to control the protection of personal data. Secondly, to oversee the implementation of the law on access to information of a public nature. Both areas are important and are linked to the common denominator, to the same keyword, this is the key word information. The law before you is relatively short and foresees the merger of both institutions into a single, new, unified institution with the name of the information officer. The reasons why we decided to merge these two institutions are as follows. It's the first time rationalization. I don't think it's necessary to explain in a long and broad way that one institution that does a particular job is always cheaper than two institutions that do the same work. So the first reason for the merger is rationalisation, better use of human resources, material resources and other resources. The second reason is that, during access to information of a public nature, i.e. between the right of the public to be informed of the information available to the public sector on the one hand and the protection of personal data, i.e. the right to privacy on the other hand, there is often a conflict, a conflict. In our opinion, it is more appropriate to weigh rights, this right to protect personal data on the one hand and to have access to information of a public nature on the other, comes at the level of one institution. This will remove the possibility of justification between two state institutions, which, under the current regime, is possible or even incorporated into the system and is also occurring in practice. Let me remind you that we have tried or initially intended to introduce or lay the groundwork for an information officer in the amendment of the Public Information Access Act, but in the legal profession it has prevailed the view that it is more appropriate that a specific law for the regulation of this institution should be established, because this institution is going into two areas, in the field of the protection of personal data and in the field of information of a public nature. Finally, I would like to stress once again that both areas are of equal importance, are equally important, and in recent times the government has paid particular attention to access to information of a public nature, since the basis for the open and transparent functioning of the public sector has already been laid by the basic law on access to information of a public nature adopted in the previous mandate. During this year, you will recall that supplements have been adopted to increase the openness of the government, state administration, public administration and the public sector, as some exceptions have been relativised because there are virtually no exceptions to information on public spending, i.e. the use of tax money and the functioning of public officials and public servants, and because a so-called public interest test has also been introduced, allowing even in cases where exceptions are made to public interest to prevail, information that is relevant to the functioning of the public sector of the advantage prevails over that interest protected by a certain exception. The introduction was short, and the marriage was short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greeting, Mr Minister, colleagues and fellow Members. The Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the proposal for an Information Officer Act in the first session of the 13th regular session. The representative of the proposed Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, said and provided an additional explanation for the bill's proposal, in particular with regard to the proposed solution with the Joint Information Officer Body, which exercise competence in both areas. He reasoned that such a solution was justified for two reasons: the first reason was business rationalisation, since two similar state authorities would need both more human resources and financial and other resources, and the second reason was to prevent conflicts between the two state authorities operating in such intertwined areas. The bill summarises all the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and therefore the area of personal data protection, as an area of access to information of a public nature, is fully in line with the European legal order. The representative of the Commissioner for Access to Public Information supported the importance of the bill's proposal, as the Joint Body will ensure greater visibility and uniformity of the overall regulation of this area, and thus the awareness of the authorities and the implementation of the legal provisions in favour of all beneficiaries. It is reasonable and right to resolve conflicts within one and one single institution. Nor is there any fear that these two constitutional rights would be, that is, access to information of a public nature and the protection of personal data, with such a solution being reduced in any way. The representative of the Data Protection Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia said that at first they had concerns about the merger into a single body, but in principle they agree with this arrangement. On the basis of the comments made by the Ministry of Public Administration, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly pointed out that the Ministry of Public Administration had drawn up proposals and the amendments to the Committee and had subsequently requested further clarification from the applicant in the discussion on the comments made by this service on the third paragraph of Article 15 of the law since they considered that their comments had not been answered by the proposer. However, the representatives of the applicant, the inspectorate and the authorising officer further explained that Article 15, paragraph 15, referred to the right set out in Article 31 of the Personal Data Protection Act, which was taken by the law in the third indent of the first paragraph of Article 2 of the draft law and by which the controllers of the personal data databases wish to enforce this criminal provision in order to ensure that each person has the right to have access to his own personal data. Members and members of the Committee expressed different views in the debate on the envisaged joint body in one institution which will exercise powers in both areas so far. On the one hand, the view was expressed that the proposed merger of two areas was not the best solution and it might be more appropriate to maintain two separate bodies with a common service. The joint or joint body should be assessed in terms of the constitutional and legal arrangements of Slovenia and the objectives that we want to achieve through the proposal for a law. Such a solution could lead to disclosure of information of a personal nature, according to some. Most of the members of the Committee supported the proposed solutions in the draft law and, on the one hand, the urgent rationalisation of work in this area. In doing so, it is essential to maintain the content of the two competent authorities in a joint body, which ensures the full application of the law. The Committee thus adopted its amendments and also supported all other articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Miss Alenka Jeraj has the word on behalf of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u6	Good-bye, everyone. The law that we are considering today deals with two important areas: the protection of personal data, on the one hand, and the area of access to public information, on the other hand. The current solution in the current Act on Access to Public Information and the Personal Data Protection Act provides for two separate bodies. Official authority for access to information of a public nature and national supervisory authority for the protection of personal data. The proposed law tackles this issue more effectively and rationally with a joint body, an information officer exercising powers in both areas. The Joint Body will ensure greater visibility and uniformity of the overall regulation of this area and will unify administrative practice in the area of access to information of a public nature and the protection of personal data. The uniform practice of ensuring both human rights is important both for the debtors and for the applicants and increases legal certainty. One of the important reasons for supporting the proposed law is the rationalisation of business, as two similar national authorities would need more human, financial and other resources for their operations than one joint body, and in the view of the proposaler, the two authorities would even provide a lower level of legal certainty due to conflicts. Given that the solutions in the proposed Information Officer Act will contribute significantly to faster and more efficient resolution of requests for the protection of personal data or the control of the protection of personal data and access to information of a public nature and, of course, to greater, more effective legal protection, we support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u8	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia cannot support the law in this form, more than that. We feel that marriage is unnecessary. The reason for such a position is that we conceptually disagree with the basic resolution of the law, which also involves the supervisory authority, the State supervisory authority for the protection of personal data, which should otherwise be set up by the State as an independent body. We believe that such a solution is poor and that both segments, both the promotion of access to information of a public nature and the protection of personal data, will present a number of problems, while at the same time there will be an exceptional concentration of power in the information officer's institution in this case. The proposer, as we have heard, justifies such a solution for the following reasons. The merger should contribute to the rationalisation of public administration, as instead of two institutions, we will have only one. This cannot be a good and acceptable argument when it comes to safeguarding and ensuring constitutionally guaranteed rights. In addition, both independent institutions could have a common technical support service, a financial service, a depository and anything like that, an information system that was logically separated, thereby reducing the administrative costs of both bodies and thus not holding that two institutions would have twice as much resources to operate both. Bringing the two institutions together will mean that sometimes an urgent conflict of interest is brought into an institution, a single institution, which means a less transparent solution to the conflict. Legal certainty is not going to be much smaller for this. The current regulation in the Personal Data Protection Act, as has already been said, provides for such a conflict and allows both the authorising officer and the person protecting personal data to initiate an administrative dispute where they consider that one has made a decision to the detriment of the other or vice versa, namely paragraphs 57 and 104. So the conflict is recognised, institutionalized and processed. Why do we oppose such a solution? The greater information accessibility and openness that we're dealing with is also on the other side. Informationisation and, in particular, the increasing connectivity of different databases pose a risk of disclosure of information and data of a personal nature linked to personal and private characteristics of individuals. It follows that the right to know relating to information of a public nature may arise in conflict with the right to privacy and not affect the personal sphere of individuals. The merger of protection of both rights is possible and the question is whether it is useful in terms of pursuing the objectives of both laws. We think it would be significantly better and more transparent if we had a solution with two separate bodies and an institutionalised conflict. We need to ask ourselves what kind of conflict this is. My right to know can be faced with the right of another to protect his personal data and vice versa, and it is therefore questionable to combine the judgment on this in one person alone, as would be the questionable combination of the prosecution and defence in trials in one person. In addition, each institution, i.e. an information authority or an authorised authority, has a power structure and within this power structure, one party may have more than the other, which means that inside an institution there may be a deliberate or unwitting neglect of data protection interests at the expense of accessibility or vice versa. In the last instance, however, this conflict is compounded in a decision, a personal decision of the authorising officer himself, thereby gaining exceptional power even in sensitive matters of personal data protection. [[.....]] Therefore, it would be better if the third party, the third branch of power and both sides strictly defend their interests. Otherwise, it will not be possible to decide if they are not satisfied by the decision of the authorising officer. The solutions provided by this proposal of the law are included in a series of amendments which, in fact, limit the freedom field step by step and remove the verification and balance mechanisms, check and balance mechanisms, and reduce the role and importance of other branches of government, the judiciary and independent state institutions. This marriage doesn't just bring bad promises, it's already [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u9	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u10	for democracy. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Miran Potč has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Government shall, by means of a proposal for an information officer law, introduce a new body, an information officer, which shall at the same time decide on procedures for the protection of personal data and complaints against the denial of the right to information of a public nature. The Government shall base its proposal on two main reasons. To prevent conflicts between the two state authorities and to save 50 million tolars. In the exercise of two such important constitutional rights, the right to the protection of personal data and the right to information of a public nature, as a basis for the exercise of the authority of the people and cooperation in the management of public affairs, those two objectives are not necessarily sufficient. The conflict between the two authorities is, according to the proposal of the law, transferred to a conflict of different perspectives and the weighing of the different rights of the authorising officer himself. Perhaps the conflict will not be publicly present, perhaps it will be easier to resolve it. However, it is not certain that such a solution to a conflict of interest will not be at the expense of one of the rights first, rather than in the case of each of them defending a single body. And with this uncertainty, which has not been eliminated in the debate on the labour force, the savings of 50 million when it comes to human rights cannot really be sufficient. A bill on which a number of questions were raised among others also by the legislature and the Members and Members of Parliament at the meeting of the home labour body, and the answers, as usual, seemed convincing, but very general and categorical, did not convince Members and Members of the Social Democrats and we will not vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj, Nova Slovenija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u14	In the New Slovenia Group, the proposal for an Information Commissioner Act seems to make sense. In particular, it makes sense in terms of rationalisation of the work of the public authorities. In this house we hear a great deal about the irrationality of small municipalities, which are supposed to overburden budgetary resources with administration, the legislation allows for the integration of some municipal authorities, which are used and treated rationally and at the same time provide the constitutional tasks they are obliged to provide. In the context of this law, we are talking about our own country, which, in the whole European context, means a small country that could easily see what we are reading to our own congregations. The proposal for a law goes to the rationality of public administration and authorities in a small country where a pragmatic approach is necessary. Of course, warnings of increased potential abuse can be justified. At the same time, however, warnings about the potential for energy loss in conflict situations between two independent authorities may also be justified. Here, both dilemmas, which are extreme, are levelled according to our assessment. And in fact, the rationality argument remains the key. New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group - The Christian People's Party will monitor the implementation of the new law and the work of the new joint body. We expect effective, ongoing and cooperative work, in short we expect the professionalism of the new joint body and therefore we support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kangler has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. The proposed solution, which offers a more efficient and rational option with a joint body, an information officer exercising powers in both areas, is supported in the Slovenian People's Party, as the merger offers rational solutions when two joint bodies need fewer human resources, financial and other resources for their work in the mutual and inter-community areas. The law deals with two important information areas. This is the area of personal data protection, on the one hand, and the area of access to public information, on the other hand. We believe that conflict resolution is much easier within one institution by obtaining harmonised data. It is our view that it is right for these conflicts within the institution to be clarified and that, in fact, the state authority and state institutions do not justify themselves. As I said in the introduction, we will support the bill in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In the Slovenian National Party, we have tried to consider the proposal for an information officer law as apolitically as possible. And in fact, the essence of this, according to the Slovenian National Party, is a proposal for an information officer law, a conflict of interest. Wherever we turn, whatever we read, we come to some kind of conflict. The conflict itself has made two separate bodies so far to obtain information on the one hand and to protect information on the other. Indeed, it is true that this conflict of interest will continue between these two bodies. One protects the other requires. In fact, it is true that even in the opinion of some members of the Slovenian National Party, the merger of both parties leads to an even greater conflict. More conflict. Why? Because, I'm going to give an example from before the times in which we lived in the past "kadia sued, kadija sued" or, because that's right, "sude-judgment". In fact, the right to know and the right to privacy is a fundamental element of human rights in life. We have all tried what this means, who has the right to know where the public person or Mr Minister or Member is. Knowing, not knowing and now solving this problem is not as easy as proposing an information officer law and bringing together. I believe the reasons for the author's opinion are logical. But you always wonder if saving 50 million dollars is worth enough to tear down one system on the other. For if they are two separate bodies, they must regulate each other, that is the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, they must regulate each other and determine whether any information goes to the public or has the advantage of protecting this information. If this is one body, I apologize, I may find out what this means, I do not see how one person, one body decides whether any information is appropriate for the public or whether this information is a right to privacy. We can't and we don't want to talk, but we can't rule out the subjective factor, the people who are going to do it in one organ. Each of us has a subjective view of one thing and estimates that some information is necessary, that the public knows whether information is necessary to protect it and that it is designed as a right to privacy. I believe that the proposaler has tried and wanted to simplify certain things, but as simple as they appear in the proposal of the Information Commissioner Act, they are not. The decision in the Slovenian National Party will be, has been or has not been made at all. At least we'll decide on our own conscience. Once again, I think that such bills, although going on on a regular basis, may need to be reconsidered at this stage. This is also evident from the various discussions and views, opinions and views of the home working committee, which is good. So, I believe the Minister that you have tried, I believe the proposaler has tried, but I suggest in thought, to exclude the political element and this conflict that arises in the circle of "perpeto mobile" may not be so easy to resolve by merging the two separate organs into one. I think we just need to think this through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u20	Good day to you all, and thank you so much for your words, Mr President! I will first recall the Minister's words when he initially said that his introduction was short because the marriage was short. And I think that's the right thing to do. It is a short law, but there were 13 amendments to this short law, namely Articles 20 and 13 of the amendment. We therefore consider, in the DeSUS Group of Members, that these amendments have contributed significantly to the improvement of that basic text and we believe that, for this reason, it is also possible to count on our support for the vote. But we, too, were not entirely without a reserve inclined to support. We've been thinking about it, we've been thinking about it, because at least now, if they're not, some things are contradictory. Some arguments in this regard have already been heard today and probably does not suggest repeating them. However, I hope that there will be a clear dilemma in the debate, as the Minister will then have the opportunity to replace what may have been released in the short introduction. We first asked ourselves what ambitions are, and if we list them, as they are written not exactly in the order of the document, it is the first time that this should probably be the most important reason for greater legal certainty. Now, whether or not greater legal certainty will be achieved by this law, we do not hope to claim uniformly. It may, however, not be assured that it will, but it may also be. Today a few words have already been said about this. The second ambition was to lower costs, which, of course, is not irrelevant. Greater rationality does not only mean reducing costs, it also means rationality in work, in decisions and so on, and we support this in every way, especially if this will also result in a reduction in costs, but so far the explanation has not been more precise about how these costs will be reduced. The next ambition was the ambition of greater control, something that we can support, in particular perhaps to allow greater control over work, either by local communities, or by other state authorities or public institutions, and this probably shows support. Whether the fourth ambition will also achieve greater prevention of possible conflicts between the two bodies, it is stated that this now exists, and this is another problem, because these conflicts, which are now expressed at the level of the two bodies, can be internalized and then transferred to another level due to the nature of these two constitutional rights. It seems to us that this conflict, that the nature of the contradiction of these two truths cannot be avoided by one authority itself, not or in the end, not by one person alone, as we call it. The reasons given by the applicant are of a content nature and are reasons to increase rationalisation. One of these reasons, which has also been mentioned to us, is somewhat unusual, for it is explicitly stated that it is a matter of preventing exhaustion in the prestigious fight of the two institutions. If that was the case and that is the case, then action should be taken already, at this level, so that this exhaustion in prestigious battles would not take place and is feared because it is envisaged that all employees will now find themselves within one body in order to possibly continue any prestigious fights. The question is whether we will know this prestige and fight against it, or whether it may not have been as meant as it is in the Rapporteur. Since some amendments are indeed improving, we will support this, what seems to us to be the best way to prevent all amendments from being proposed by the government, because it could then be that we have weekly relief proposals, which in no way would contribute to the quality of the work, but this amendment, this irregularity or a flaw has been pointed out by the already legislative and legal service, the amendment has been taken into account and therefore we believe that the law can also be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be guided by the amendment review of 28.11.2005. I am putting to the debate Article 1 – the only amendment we have – of the LDS Group. Who wants a word? Please, Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, present this amendment to this article. It must be said that we wish to delete the second paragraph of Article 1 with the amendment, and this second paragraph, if you do not have documents on the table, speaks of the transposition into the administrative order of the Republic of Slovenia of the Directive of the European Parliament and so on of the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and so on. In short, this is not true, or this article or this second paragraph is unnecessary. This Directive has been transposed into the Slovenian legal order, of course in the Personal Data Protection Act, and this Personal Data Protection Act also states that, of course, the State must establish an independent body to protect these personal data and therefore this second paragraph would only mean confusion here and Europeans would see when a European official would come in and say, thus you have not transposed this Directive, this Directive is something else, it is something more and similar and would say, not because there is another law and so on. In short, it brings nothing, and this second article only creates confusion and it is better to delete it for the benefit of such a law as it is. Of course, this also implies that this law is unnecessary. The Personal Data Protection Act states that the State should establish an independent body or body to protect such data, personal data. And on the basis of this Personal Data Protection Act, the State could set up such a body by a decision, saying that the Data Protection Inspectorate is being transformed into a stand-alone institution and so on. He should not be coming to Parliament at all. And if we're talking about rationalisation, a respected colleague and a colleague, if anyone listens to me, then all I would say is that the fact that we had to adopt the law is a certain irrationality. When no one has calculated how much this costs us, all the procedures in Parliament, the work of the services, committees, treatment, operation, the meeting of the National Assembly. We will spend two hours here, I hope that less, two hours and 26 minutes, for something that would not be necessary at all to come to Parliament. And that's rationality or something. It would be rational to simply establish such an independent body by means of a decision, which allows you to do so by the law on the protection of personal data. And, of course, I attach to my colleague Kokalj, who gave a good example that municipalities, small municipalities, set up joint bodies to reduce operating costs. However, of course, I would add to my fellow Kokalj that by setting up small congregations of joint bodies for certain services, they do not abolish themselves. We do not, or we do not set up a personal data protection institution, but in fact we simply combine the Commissioners with this. In short, the argument put forward by Mr Kokalj is more relevant in order to establish two bodies and to establish certain common services that could work for both bodies. Again: Is this conflict always necessary and always necessary during the protection of personal data and the protection of access to information of a public nature? Yes, sometimes it is, but not necessarily. Today, in Finance, we have read that both public information Commissioners, as personal data protection inspectors, have the same position as before, whether, for example, the Roman Catholic Church belongs to those institutions that are subject to the protection of personal data and both say that they are not. This means that Mr Sturm, and you both probably think that the RCC is also not bound by the Public Access Act, because this is not yet a state institution for once, and therefore Mr Sturm will have to give this information because those to whom the data relate are not protected under the Personal Data Protection Act and the matter is clear, excellent. There's no conflict here, obviously not. So it's not necessarily always a conflict. Sometimes, in rare cases, he's bound to show up. That's all I'd say. When I was talking about the right to know. The problem is that my right to know meets with the right to protect the personal data of another. If my right to know met my right to protect personal data, that would make sense. But since it's different subjects, it's not. Therefore, the establishment of two institutions, while rationalising costs, is a matter of meaning and sense for democracy, not as much a legal issue as a sense and sense of democracy. I therefore reiterate the point of supporting this amendment, if you do not already allow the law, precisely because of the lack of clarity, which law, what harmonises European Union legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u23	Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u24	A short replica. I have cited the case of small municipalities, particularly as an example of rationalisation and the provision of constitutional rights. Of course, the status of the municipality in both the constitutional order and the European Treaties and the instruments we have signed is not comparable to that of any body within the framework of the state administration. That's why I don't think canceling or canceling is a question at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u26	Perhaps you'd like to add to the fact that we're going to have a little discussion with Mr. Kokal. It's not even a controversy, it's some kind of debate that can serve something, but it's no problem. I'd say it's a model, actually. If it's the same model as you said in the municipalities, it can work. That small municipalities can rationalize their costs by having specific services, bodies, etc., without losing their identity and their constitutional role and position. This, of course, can be the case for public or state institutions. And that's exactly what I'm saying, we can rationalize the work without depriving the independence of two organs, one of which is true to love, not even established yet, and that was my point. We'd take less risks and get more, and at the same time, we'd have more rational costs. So much for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u27	Mr. Secretary has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much. First, on the rationality or rationalisation argument. So the 50 million we're talking about is, of course, the minimum savings that we've calculated by taking into account the salary of one of the officials and his secretaries. That's what you're saying. It's that minimum savings that relate to, if I say cartoons, to secretary and ficus. In the long term, however, I am convinced that merging the two institutions into one leads to greater savings because it is in the nature of the institutions. In particular, such as the Information Officer or the Public Information Commissioner, who is not an integral part of the public administration, as they seek additional employment and increased financial resources. Those institutions that we have within the state administration, of course, can be tamed by the government in these appetites, if I say a little harshly, but institutions that are independent, independent of a government that does not receive the human resources plan and budget, of course have different options. Therefore, I firmly believe that long-term savings will be significantly greater. Because if we had two officials with two jobs, of course, both would tend to increase the number of employees. However, as for the costs of drafting this law, I must say in particular. In our Ministry of Public Administration we write the laws ourselves, and we have written this law ourselves in cooperation with the Commissioner for Access to Public Information; none of this title has been paid any more and the work has had to be done within the regular work, within the worker. Secondly, fears of conflict of interest. I must stress in particular that fears are too much because both rights are intact in a materially legal sense. The right protection of both rights remains exactly the same as before, the regulation of both rights remains exactly the same as before, only institutional protection will be otherwise regulated. And, of course, those affected by the alleged alleged interference in the protection of personal data have the same right as before to judicial protection. He can appeal to a court, he can claim compensation and he has access, that is, judicial protection all the way to the Constitutional Court. Speaking of conflict of rights. The weighting of rights is in the nature of decision-making, so it seems to me that this view that we need for every right, to protect every right, a special body, a special institution, is quite bureaucratic. Weighting interests, weighing rights is in the nature of decision-making. Most pronouncedly, at the highest level, at the most abstract level, this is reflected in the institution of the Constitutional Court, whose main task is to weigh the balance of constitutional rights. The principle of proportionality is a fundamental constitutional principle. And the Constitutional Court does virtually nothing but weighs various constitutional rights. However, when it comes to the conflict of these two rights, the right to know on the one hand and the right to protect personal data must be made very clear that there will be no misunderstanding. This intersection, if you imagine that these are two circles that intersect somewhere, is very small and touches only a handful compared to two million Slovenian citizens, touching a handful of public officials and employees, because the right to know, the right to access information of a public nature is the right to information available to the public sector and there can be a conflict with the right to protect personal data only when it comes to public servants, public officials and those who acquire public funds from the budget or from other public goods. So that there will be no misleading impression that there can be a conflict between the right to access information of a public nature and the protection of personal data of two million Slovenian citizens, far from that, this conflict will occur in a handful of those who are in public office, in public services or those who receive or pay or any other revenue from public funds. I can also practically illustrate it. The information officer will have two services and two functions, one of which will be controllers for the protection of personal data, who will carry out the inspection as is being done today, on the other hand, as today the Ombudsman will decide on complaints made by citizens seeking access to information of a public nature. There will be different views, such as the question of the public of agricultural subsidies. If the position of the information officer is that the data on the subsidies are public, which I believe must be, then it is clear that it should not be possible for the information agents to take such a decision at the same time as an inspector or controller for the protection of personal data to order such data to be removed from the Internet. The protection of personal data is an important value, but when it comes to information about the use of public money and the functioning of public services, officials and public servants, this right must give priority to the right to know, i.e. the right of the public to be informed of such matters. The protection of personal data is necessary, it is important, but here must give priority to the right to know. I must say that, in practice, we have also met several times with far too much personal data protection. I know what problems we have had in providing the principle that the administrative authorities themselves obtain data from official records so that customers do not have to fly from window to window. It took a long time here, too, before we applied this principle, that if the party itself wants to do so, there is no problem for the authority to obtain these rights for it. So sometimes personal data protection was so far away that it was already to the detriment of what rights were to be protected. And in the end, the amendment itself. The proposer well knows that the amendment is of an express technical nature and that the adoption of this amendment would lead to the non-consistency of the law. I understand, you have initially said that you are against the law in its entirety and with this amendment you probably want to symbolically stress this once again. But if we were to delete this provision, which says that this law transposes part of the directive into the Slovenian legal order, then the law would not actually tell the truth, because if this law is adopted as it is, then, of course, transposes the directive in part into the Slovenian legal order. The adoption of the amendment would therefore bring considerable nonconsistency in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u30	Good, because we probably won't discuss the proposal if I start from the end. In part, I have stressed the law, but it does not tolerate the directive if we say that it transposes the directive and so on, of course, everyone thinks that it brings the directive in its entirety. You are now saying in part, so it would make sense to correct our amendment in the sense that it transposes the directive of the European Parliament in a work relating to the establishment of an independent supervisory authority if you propose such an amendment in the third reading and probably will be accepted by the coalition. I wanted to warn you that there is nonconsistency in this proposal and that it would be better if it were not so written. I also think that if this second article were a line, in no way would the law be unconstitutional or the purpose of the law be challenged. I think it's even better. However, as Minister, you have a large number of matters concerning the assessment of the importance of access to information of a public nature, the importance of protecting personal data, the relationship between these two rights and so on, you are probably in the context and course and the course of thinking. So there won't be any squabbles here either. However, of course, I stress some other aspects that it is right that the audience here hears about them and that we actually decide on them. Of course, I also think that it is the nature of the institutions to seek to increase employment, but in any case the government and this Parliament have one lever and that is to control financial resources. Without financial resources, there are no new jobs and there is one of the most powerful mechanisms by which this natural tendency of institutions after increased employment can be limited. We also know that the current authorising officer thinks he has too few people and so on. In short, clearly, it is here in the government and in Parliament to assess where such matters are justified, where, of course, they are not and where, of course, they are not. It's your responsibility. Of course, I'm not reading to you about the writing of the law or who wrote it or how. I don't see the problem either, and what I was going to say is that you don't have to write this marriage at all, and we could do something else. We would simply write a decision establishing this body on the basis of a personal data protection law. The weighing of rights is in the nature of the matter, in the decision-making of legal decision-making and even in the case of two separate bodies, the authorising officer on a case should weigh the right of access to information of a public nature also by the provisions of other laws, that is clear, not only the law on the protection of personal data, including other laws and vice versa. So that we cannot avoid weighing in these matters, and this weighting is a natural one, is a logical and meaningful decision-making process, and in administrative decision-making at all. So I also agree with you that the number of these matters is smaller and the number of people involved will be smaller. But once again, I would point out that those who protect personal data will somehow naturally tend to be a little more protective than a little less. And if they were to dominate this new body, as they appear to be, they would not, but if, of course, there would be protection, so access to information to damage and excessive protection, as was the case with this withdrawal of the list of subsidies, which was really funny. On the contrary, it may also affect some personal data, but not only officials, including someone else with some unreflected relationship or, you might say, more of a kind of abuse of the law on access to information of a public nature, to reveal some things that may be politically interesting in one way or another. That is why I still think that, as we say, it would be better, more hygienic if we had two institutions, because this somehow falls within our context, I would say, a political culture and a legal order. And that rationalisation is possible, but I think it must not go to the detriment of some fundamental judgment on what is good for this democracy, for this country and what is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u31	I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or no later than 2.50 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - This is on the exploratory proposal for a resolution on the National Consumer Protection Programme 2006-2010. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Hello, Mr. Secretary. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. The proposed resolution on the national consumer protection programme is prepared on the basis of the consumer protection law and covers a five-year programme, the period from 2006-2010. The resolution sets out the foundations, principles, characteristics and factors of consumer protection policy, sets out objectives and measures and aims to achieve these objectives. The resolution provides a framework for the implementation of measures and activities. It is worth noting, however, that the actual level of resources depends on the annual budget and is provided under budget lines, not just one ministry, but more ministries. The implementation of the resolution will be determined by a two-year work programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, the resolution is a direction, a path, a direction, while concrete activities are a matter of two-year work programmes under this resolution. In particular, the identified objectives of the resolution are to integrate consumer protection into all policies affecting the situation, consumer interests on the market; to step up institutional strengthening and proper organisation of consumer protection providers by effectively carrying out consumer protection tasks; to effectively enforce consumer legislation; to ensure consistent effective supervision, in particular market surveillance, product security and consumer economic interests; to effectively and accessible public services in the field of consumer protection organised within the non-governmental sector; to strengthen consumer protection cooperation within the national administration with non-governmental organisations working in the field of consumer protection; to effectively resolve consumer disputes through the establishment of a public alternative dispute resolution scheme and to establish a European consumer centre. The resolution identifies the main national institutions or actors in the field of consumer protection, within the framework of both the state administration and actors, carriers within the non-governmental sector and provides a basis for their coordinated operation. This is crucial because there is synergies, cooperation, added value between the non-governmental sector and the country or the state administration, because of this added value consumers can have the most. The resolution introduces a clear division of labour between the state and the state administration and the non-governmental sector and thus introduces more order in this relationship. It is important to point out and stress that this is an extremely horizontal nature of consumer protection and that the resolution is based on a cross-sectoral and interdisciplinary approach, which is important for the implementation of measures and tasks to ensure or achieve the objectives set and is responsible for different ministries, inspection services, national regulators, both for electronic communications, energy and other bodies whose work is related to ensuring the safety and health of consumers or the protection of their rights and economic interests. The proposed measures are planned mainly as an integral part of the formulation and implementation of policies in areas within the competence of individual authorities. Once again, I stress that the policy of consumer protection is not a policy of one source, but rather a policy of a number of sources, and that means must also be found there to implement the two-year programmes and to ensure that the objectives set out in the resolution are met. The resolution underlines the importance of regulated internal relations between national authorities through coordinated inter-sectoral cooperation and the integration of consumer protection authorities by strengthening existing coordinating bodies and by establishing ministerial coordinators. The resolution proposes priority content areas to focus on measures and project activities, taking into account the priorities of the current European Consumer Protection Strategy and which the Republic of Slovenia will focus on the integration of consumer interests, in particular the safety of products, both food and non-food, and public infrastructure services, food and nutrition, health care, standardisation, financial services, sustainable consumption and housing. The resolution also places great emphasis on increasing consumer access to legal protection and increasing the effectiveness of the implementation of public services in the field of consumer protection, which is more precisely regulated and thus answers questions that have remained unresolved in the first national programme, which has also expired since the end of this year. The resolution defines public services that will be implemented on the basis of concessions, such as the implementation of consumer advice and the implementation of consumer information through consumer magazines. In doing so, according to the Slovenian Development Strategy, it takes into account the changed role of the country, which must increasingly become the regulator and supervisor of the implementation of these services, and not the major operator of these policies. Given that consumer protection policy is part of the internal market policy at European Community level, measures to strengthen administrative cooperation between national consumer protection authorities of the Member States are also at the forefront of the resolution, both with regard to the cooperation of supervisory authorities of the countries and professional administrative authorities in the field of consumer protection. In short, the resolution is preparing or presenting a new, quality move forward, taking into account the interdisciplinary nature of the area, taking into account the need for cooperation and the need for, after all, the different powers and activities of the public authorities and the non-governmental sector, and wants to link these activities together and thus provide consumers in Slovenia with safer and more transparent protection than has been the case so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Director of the Office, Fellow Member and Fellow Member. At its 9th meeting, on 4.11.2005, the Committee considered the motion for a resolution as a parent. The committee was attended by representatives of the candidates, i.e. the First League, Mr Minister, State Secretary, Director of the Office and other co-workers from the Ministry. They also participated: a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, a representative of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia and representatives of the Union of Consumer Associations of Slovenia. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal Service. The Service had a number of comments and most of them were taken into account, in agreement with the applicant, in the form of amendments adopted on the Committee which were incorporated into the supplementary motion for a resolution. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Economic Commission for the State Council, the proposals for amendments to the Association of Consumer Associations of Slovenia and the comments of the Zasavje Consumer Association. Since the Minister is very detailed, both here today and at the Committee's meeting, he has presented a proposal or the content of the resolution and because you also have a summary discussion in the report, I will not repeat this, but I will limit myself to just a few issues which were the most discussed and which could in some way be considered open, some amendments have also been given or proposed at the Committee's meeting, and we have two amendments on our hands now. First of all, in the general debate, the Committee has generally supported the objectives, principles and fundamental orientations of the resolution under the conditions of membership in the European Union and in the increasingly open market, which brings with it a number of risks in addition to positive things, in particular for consumers, it has been a common assessment that, at the moment and for the future, this resolution is all the more important in terms of its content. Of course, it has been very stressed that not only a letter on paper will not be enough, but it will be very important how this resolution will be implemented in practice, as Mr Minister has just mentioned. In particular, the following four issues were raised or problematic in the debate. First time. It was estimated that there was a need to improve the protection of patients' rights. Here was even proposed an amendment to add a special indent on the establishment of the Institute of the Ombudsman. The amendment has not been adopted, but another amendment has been adopted, which is incorporated into the proposal. In fact, the position or proposal of the Ministry of Health to study the possibility of setting up the Ombudsman's Institute in preparation of the Law on Patients' Rights. Another issue that received considerable debate was the question or assessment that the resolution gave a proper high emphasis to the health integrity of food, but that there was not enough emphasis on the quality of food products that we use in trade. Special attention was given to kindergartens, schools, and other segments. And here was highlighted the need to reintroduce testing of food products in order to ensure good quality. Thirdly, a significant part of the debate referred to the classification of the Office on organisational wages, whether it should belong, as now, to the Ministry of the Economy, and remained the solution to other proposals for the solution to be the same as it is. And let me conclude that it has been agreed that every two years the government should report on the implementation of the government resolution to the government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u35	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u36	also to the National Assembly. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Breda Pecan has the floor, on behalf of the Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u38	Good morning, good morning, colleagues. Good afternoon, Mr. President. The Group of Social Democrats supports the motion for a resolution on the national consumer protection programme for the period 2006-2010 by stressing that a large part of the consumer protection commitments implemented by our country are also implemented in accordance with the European Union policy, which has already included approximately EUR 1 billion 300 million in the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013, a pardon of EUR 1 billion 300 million in public health and consumer protection policies. In this regard, I can also say that this resolution is quite consistent with the European Union's consumer protection plans. However, that certain tasks or certain objectives cannot be achieved unless our country's budgets from 2006-2010 and beyond are very clearly defined to provide funds for the implementation of individual consumer protection tasks. It is true that, in particular in the field of food safety, both health and technical safety of products, they perform tasks or finance of the research country, i.e. the testing of products also through inspection services, and we know that legislation in this area also defines how these checks are financed. So it is that part of consumer protection that speaks about their health and other physical safety, while financing, testing comparative testing of product quality, the country does not finance us sufficiently, not to say that we finance this to a large extent or almost nothing, and that we place domestic producers in a subordinate position when it comes to the fact that on the domestic market and even on the European market we can prove that the quality of products produced in Slovenia is better or at least as good as the quality of very large producers in the 25-tier or even on the world market. This would be appropriate in this resolution, in chapter - I apologize only to find - this is chapter 4.5, where it speaks of testing the effects of Pardonon, 4.4.3. [[...]] - this is market surveillance for the protection of consumers' economic interests and later in 4.5.3., in the comparative testing of products and services, where there is much to talk about, the resolution speaks of what is actually good in this comparative testing, but there is no awareness that in the budgets of Slovenia, money, at least the share to be attached, will be added to the European Union funds, namely in this billion EUR 300 million for deductions 2007-2013, there is also a provision for co-financing of activities in the field of product quality comparison, since the European Union, and in particular the Commission, is very well aware that comparative testing of the quality of European producers' products is extremely important for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. Why am I saying that? Because of the fact that, as far as it is not possible to show consumers or users the comparative quality of products coming from third countries and products in the European Union or products coming from producers outside Slovenia and producers in Slovenia, the consumer cannot then choose what is more of a quality or, more simplistically, say that his choice cannot adapt to his needs, abilities and choices of that product, which is assessed as such quality that it is worth giving as much money as he has at his disposal, it is said that he is consciously deciding primarily on good information and on the basis of independent, neutral testing of these products. Here we need to attach to the Union of Consumers of Slovenia and also to regional consumer organisations, which say they simply have no chance to cooperate with the offer of testing products within the framework of the European consumer organisation, where this comparison of products appearing on our market could then be well done. So, the fact is that all these tests, based on a quality comparison, actually enable our producers, is that the quality of our manufacturers' products is at least comparable if not often higher than the quality of third country producers' products and, more often, also from some European Union countries. Another area that we considered important in the parliamentary group is the area of public health protection in terms of consumer protection when verifying that products on the market are healthy, therefore, in terms of health. Here, too, it is not only products, but also services, i.e. health services, and it would be right for users not to use the term to consumers, because this somehow does not belong in the context of our thinking, I will say, what is the generalised attitude of Slovenians towards health services, it would be right for the government to seriously consider ensuring that in the field of protection, i.e. consumers or users of health services, a truly independent body that will safeguard the interests of users of health services, that both their rights in the legal field and their rights in terms of the quality of health services themselves can be exercised by consumers on the basis of good information, since it is certainly one of the most important in this area. With regard to consumer information, which is certainly the only way to choose one or the other product, one or the other services, to have the option of choosing on the basis of quality and independent, neutral data collection is certainly one of the weak points of consumer protection in Slovenia. The fact that there is only one magazine in which testing data can be published, the quality reviews of products, the comparative quality reviews of products, certainly limits the circle of consumers with access to these data. That is why I believe that the government here should provide funds in the budget for, perhaps a somewhat less luxurious form, implementation, and therefore a much more widely distributed publication, i.e. to finance this publication, which must be issued by a non-governmental consumer organisation by nature, but to be available for as much as possible, or we can say all consumers. The fact is that the publication of data on the results of comparative testing is certainly not available on the world web to a very large number of consumers in Slovenia, because although the number of users of the world's Internet in Slovenia is relatively high, in particular those who do not know how to use the Internet, product quality, product quality and safety data, both for health and product use, are more needed than younger generations who use or travel around the world, as it is called, it would be good to have this magazine or this publication made available to all households in Slovenia in print. Given that the cost of printing such publications today is relatively low, the government could certainly provide for a wider distribution of data in the budget. This, of course, requires that we make sure that we get the data in the first place. I would also like to say that the EU, as its conclusions show, will regularly monitor developments in the field of consumer protection in the Member States, both the Commission and the European Parliament. It would also be useful for the government to report to the National Assembly, or at least to transmit the report of the Consumer Protection Office to the National Assembly when the Office submits this report to the Ministry of Economy or Government. Indeed, reporting on consumer protection developments for five years is certainly a period which, in particular for the first years of this five-year period, provides data that are extremely outdated and is therefore unnecessary to report at all. We therefore explicitly support the proposal to report or provide information on developments in this area to the National Assembly every two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič, New Slovenia, has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u40	Nicely greeted. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members, Members and Members. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian People's Party, we will support the motion for a resolution on the national consumer protection programme. The document is quite extensive and very important, as it is ready for a five-year period. The resolution is prepared on the basis of a consumer protection law. The resolution sets out the foundations, principles and characteristics of consumer protection policy. It also contains objectives and measures, as well as, of course, the tasks of achieving all these objectives. The rapid change in competition rules, the rapid economic market, the technological development, is causing a growing supply of diverse and difficult comparable goods and services on the market. Market transparency is declining. The transition to an information society, the emergence of new technologies, the reduction of state prosperity and the processes of globalisation are becoming increasingly complex for consumers. The problems facing the consumer in the market today are also complex, as he often lacks economic resources, knowledge, skills to manage it, which puts him in an even more unequal position vis-à-vis large economic systems. This is also the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members to protect the interests of consumers in all areas where consumer interests can be compromised, especially when it comes to their health and the safety of social and economic interests. To this end, the National Assembly adopted in 2000 the first national consumer protection programme for the period 2000-2005 on the basis of the Consumer Protection Act. The programme was partially implemented, among other things, mainly due to the substantial deviation in the amount of resources originally envisaged for its implementation. Before us is the second document of consumer protection, which, as the government says, is the result of positive and negative experiences in the implementation of the first programme. Its main reference framework is the European Consumer Protection Strategy 2002-2006. Consumer protection in the European Union is subject to the adoption of frequent new measures and will, as is already the case, be our country. A number of institutions, different resources and different operators are included in the implementation programme of the Resolution 2006-2010 of the National Consumer Protection Programme. The resolution sets out the seven priority objectives, which are primarily dual-purpose; achieve a high level of consumer protection; and ensure consumer health and safety. The field of food protection of both animal and plant origin was particularly highlighted on the parental committee. The resolution deals only with the issue of control over the safety of food products and the quality issues of these products are not addressed. It would certainly be fitting for the resolution to be supplemented in this part in the direction of the recommendations on food quality control, much attention should be paid to other domestic producers and their obligations, while forgetting the producers of third countries, as we have heard today. In our parliamentary group, however, we agree that in the area of quality control of products and services on the market, an important role should be played by a non-governmental organisation through the implementation of comparative testing of products and services. Surely we should give the highest possible attention to the quality of food intended for the diet of children, as has been said at the meeting of the parent working body. This should be the most important criterion in public procurement for the selection of food suppliers in kindergartens and schools. With regard to the Committee's concerns that the resolution should give greater attention to consumer protection in the field of health, in the New Slovenia Group we expect the new law prepared by the Ministry of Health, the Law on Patient Rights, to clearly define the rights of patients, the way they are implemented and to ensure their protection when they are violated. Surely, in Slovenia, the market for nuts is public goods, which are still largely provided by public companies with a monopoly on the position of tenderers, which makes the consumer significantly more subordinate, since it cannot choose the most favourable bidder on its own. Therefore, as stated in the resolution and on the basis of the adopted law on environmental protection, it will be necessary to ensure effective regulation of natural monopolies in this area, while establishing effective competition protection with a view to protecting consumers. In particular, it is necessary to ensure appropriate regulation where competition is not possible, for example in the supply of drinking water. In the New Slovenia Group, we also support the proposal that the government prepare a two-year report for the National Assembly and that it does not report after five years as originally envisaged, as we have also adopted with the amendment on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The adoption of a resolution on the national consumer protection programme imposes on us a law on consumer protection. I think we are all aware that consumer protection has become increasingly difficult lately, as we are witnessing an increasingly aggressive advertising campaign on the one hand, and on the other, an increasingly open market in which the consumer is facing more and more different products and services. Additional and more coordinated consumer protection measures, of course, also require a modern way of trading, which poses additional risks to the consumer. We must take into account the fact that it is essential to ensure that consumers are adequately protected, often left to themselves in everyday life, when faced with problems, difficulties in purchasing products and spending resources. It is therefore necessary to ensure good inspection and other supervision on the one hand, and on the other hand it is necessary to ensure that every consumer is able to turn to appropriate government and non-governmental institutions to enable him to effectively protect his rights. In our view, the resolution is particularly important because it plays an important role in the protection of consumers in the non-governmental sector where it establishes, in our view, a good framework for the coordinated functioning of all consumer protection bodies. The legislative and legal comments were largely taken into account by the amendment adopted and also by the committee itself. The Minister presented the objectives and policy factors of consumer protection that provide the means to implement the measures and the activities themselves within the ministries. The main proposals for a resolution are in particular the integration of consumer protection for all government policies, effective control, coordination and internal relations, the accessibility of the public service in the field of consumer protection, good and quality information and the resolution of disputes or problems. This resolution was attended by various ministries, inspectorates, offices and other bodies and ensures that this matter is coordinated at the highest possible level and we believe that it is a good basis for a good resolution. The President of the Union of Consumers of the Republic of Slovenia himself supports this European-oriented resolution, and, like everyone else, he probably wants us to implement or implement ourselves accordingly. I believe that's what's going to happen. As I have already said, the Committee has adopted these amendments on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative Legal Service and has thus provided certain comments made by the Government. In the hope and belief that this resolution will serve our Slovenian consumer and that it will also bring a certain step forward, the Slovenian People's Party will be pleased to support this consumer protection resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government. In the Slovenian National Party, we share an opinion with the legal service that a resolution on the national consumer protection programme in 2006 and 2010 is necessary and basically a good basis. But basically. However, in the Slovenian National Party, it is again and again to be recalled how it is possible that the resolution, which was made from 2001 to 2005, has not been implemented. According to the data we have, less than 18% were realised on the financial side. According to the content, according to the expert's assessment, it was even worse. Furthermore, I am surprised that we are making a resolution that is supposed to be good, which is supposed to be substantively important, and it is true that, because the objectives are clear and I believe that you have read them, but the budget for 2006 does not take into account the appropriate scope of the means to carry out the tasks set out in the resolution submitted. It is a little strange, at least for us in the Slovenian National Party, that we want to have a resolution that we want to implement its content. Supports, computers would say hardware, but it's not if it's software or not. The lack of this resolution, to which many have also pointed out that it does not provide for the establishment of a Ombudsman Institute and that it does not regulate the quality control of food products, which is also clearly proven, is a comparison, security does not necessarily mean quality and vice versa. The content resolution is expected to be good with budget shortcomings, with shortcomings in the implementation of the substantive work. In the Slovenian National Party we told her that this is a list of good wishes and it is right that it is, right that it is a list of good wishes. However, a certain part of this resolution suggests a lack of respect for the consumer protection law. Comparatives that you won't say we're talking. It is right that the market inspector punishes someone who sells goods to the consumer, content. But let's ask ourselves what that client, the individual, the person who complained about the market inspection of this, has nothing. Another time. In recent times, we have to say this because this is part of this sphere, witnessing a misleading vote in the field of health insurance, we are all witnessing this and we are all of a united opinion, I hope, in the Slovenian National Party, that this is a deception, that this is misleading advertising, which has no respect for the consumer. And the third time. The case of Slovenia and Slovenian milk, Slovenian milk in Italy, we import Slovak milk and present it as Slovenian milk. These are unacceptable things that can be described in the resolution up, down, down and down, down and through, but the content is not respected and the financial basis is not respected. And, finally, I have personally witnessed, in the past two years, disputes between relationships and associations that are supposed to protect consumers. These are the facts that we must consider. There has to be a resolution. The resolution is substantively well assessed, but on the basis of the resolution, if we Members are to adopt it today, we need to know that, at an extraordinary session, we will say a budget meeting next week, all together, not an individual, today we will say yes, the resolution is great, but at the next meeting we will be silent, because there is no means to achieve the objectives of this resolution. Secondly, the substantive part of this resolution must be implemented through law or law must be taken into account and complemented by the objectives of the resolution. The resolution is not just a nice piece of paper that we take into account or not, as was sometimes unfortunately the practice in this National Assembly. Therefore, honourable colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I ask that we be responsible when adopting this resolution. Let us ask ourselves what will happen to the Institute of the Ombudsman, which is part of this part of what will happen by regulating the quality of food products and, above all, how will we honestly say that the resolution is for the resolution, but we will have to say on Thursday, Friday, and perhaps Saturday, in the budget of the State of the Republic of Slovenia 2006, gentlemen, we have adopted a resolution, this resolution has financial implications, which are not visible and taken into account in the budget, and we will say whether we will require and take into account them or whether it will be a waste of all time to deal with this resolution. But we have to be so honest with consumers. Finally, the order in the field of consumer organisations needs to be established once. Once again, there's a lot of them, everyone's pulling themselves and for their own. However, those who have nothing from the resolution and from the consumer protection law are unfortunately and will, at least after what we see now, be consumers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Willy Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you. In particular, many consumers who would like to be protected from sentinel species are not here now. Maybe they'll only show up the moment they say five, six sentences and then disappear again, I don't know where. But it would be wise to be here when we consider a subject that concerns all Slovenes and all Slovenes and when we are at least nominally committed to protecting them. Otherwise, it must be said that we are in favour of this declaration in the DeSUS Group. It must be said that we will also support it. Although the truth must also be said that we were disappointed with our relationship, we were rejected by those who signed this requirement in the coalition treaty regarding the establishment of the Ombudsman in the parental working body, where we were supported by the opposition. But nevertheless, because of this declaration, because of this resolution and its necessity, we will do what is necessary in our judgment, so we will support it. There's been a lot of talk about consumers in recent weeks. Last week we mentioned them as final consumers, as those who will be affected by the tax legislation we have adopted. At that time, the final consumer did not take the best, it will feel it in a year or more. We hope that today the consumer will be more satisfied with the adoption of this declaration, because it is in fact an attempt at protecting the consumer at a declaration level, although the fundamental disadvantage has also been mentioned on the Committee that there is not sufficient resources and instruments to implement this resolution. But we feel that everything needs to be done in order to ensure that the care and protection of the consumer is of a long-term quality, to be safe, to be stable, and to assume that it is not possible to talk about quality and safety at all, as opposed to linking this concept into a broader syntagma, not one, not the other, is not possible to separate, so there is no quality without security and there is no possibility of security without adequate quality. We agree with what the ministry or the minister has proposed in the introductory words, namely that there is a need to do everything possible to extend this security horizontally or to extend the commitment to security across all sectors, and also generally across Slovenian society. Without this, greater consumer safety cannot be ensured. We regret that, earlier, we were told about the first league, the first league was on the board, now the first man of the first league had to leave the committee, because after the first man of the first league, Mr Minister, supported our demands to protect the language in those documents that the government was preparing and also, to be understood from the tapegram, supported the requirements to do more in the field of patient protection and to adopt the idea of the Ombudsman's rights after the Minister had left this meeting due to other obligations, those of the second kind of first league came in and they turned what he was pointing in one direction. Therefore, our amendment has not been adopted and therefore a dictatorship that has diluted the meaning of our amendment has been adopted in the sense that it will try to think about what needs to be done. But we don't want to think anymore, but we want to implement something. What kind of consumer protection will be not so dependent on what kind of resolution we will adopt. To a large extent, this depends on how the budget will monitor this, and, of course, on whether or not we will have a greater competitiveness and a greater demonopolisation of those who offer services and against whom consumers are mostly powerless. Given the fundamental direction of the resolution following our judgment in the right direction, we will support it in the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Rugelj, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much. A warm welcome to the representatives of the Ministry of Economy who have prepared this resolution very well. Consumer protection policy is characterised by a strong complexity as it interferes with all key areas of life. In fact, it is at the core of various policies: economic, nutrition, environmental, agricultural, educational, housing and health policies. It is converging with the field of human rights and has an important place in the field of modern information technologies. It is most closely linked to the protection of competition, since consumer protection and competition protection are like the two sides of the same coin, which is called economic policy. As a feature of economic policy, consumer law protects consumers in the first place and competition law in the first place. At the same time, they work equally in the interests of consumers and society. The aim of one policy and another is to create the conditions for the effective functioning of open and transparent markets, all for the final benefit of the consumer. Competition plays a role in regulating supply and demand for quantity and quality, while suppliers take responsibility for product safety on the market. By preventing restrictions on competition or unfair competition, or in other words, non-compliance with good business practices promotes the primary factors of the market’s situation, such as price, quality, sales conditions. Competitive legislation provides appropriate conditions for competition, which should encourage companies to improve their efficiency and performance. Consumer protection policy, on the other hand, is a set of measures by which the state and other economic policy makers want to strengthen the situation of consumers in society and in the market for goods and services. The consumer is considered to be a weaker market participant in relation to suppliers of goods and services. Since consumer protection policy is part of economic policy, its development is closely linked to the economic development of the country. Consumer protection is an important category of economic policy to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and protect consumers' economic interests. Consumer protection is an important indicator of the development of society and effective consumer protection is a fundamental civil value. The dominant position and concentration in the new markets are rapidly changing competition rules. This, as well as rapid economic and technological developments, bring about an increase in the supply of various, sometimes difficult, comparable goods and services on the market, thus reducing market transparency. The transition to an information society, the emergence of new technologies, the reduction of the state of prosperity and the processes of globalisation have made the daily life of the consumer more complex. The problems we face in the market are also complex, and economic resources, knowledge and skills are often lacking for their management, which puts it in an even more unequal position on the market in the face of large economic systems. The role of the country is crucial to the realization of the fundamental universal rights of consumers, which are also fundamental principles in the design of consumer protection policies around the world and which provide consumers worldwide with a more equal position on the market and contribute significantly to greater social justice, poverty prevention, environmental protection and responsible and sustainable society. It is also necessary to mention the European Consumer Policy Strategy for the period 2002-2006, which sets three key objectives. High common level of consumer protection, in particular through the introduction of common consumer rules and procedures and the integration of consumer interests into other Community policies. Effective enforcement of consumer protection rules, in particular through market surveillance, administrative and enforcement cooperation, access to data on services and non-food products and access to out-of-court dispute resolution mechanisms. Involvement of consumers, consumer organisations in the design and implementation of consumer protection policies and other community policies that concern the interests of consumers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this proposed resolution in the national consumer protection programme 2006-2010 is a second document of the government's consumer protection policy, which is needed due to the soon-to-be first programme, as well as the sudden economic, social and technological development. This is the result of positive and negative experiences in the implementation of the first programme and its main reference framework is the European Consumer Protection Strategy 2002-2006 of 2002. Consumer protection is an extremely dynamic area that is subject to frequent new measures in the EU. This will also have to be followed by our country, especially full membership in the European Union when it comes to consumer protection [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to focus cooperation between Member States. [[...]] The document provides a good basis for the coordinated functioning of all national consumer protection actors [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u49	Time's up!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u50	governmental and non-governmental organisations. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the motion for a resolution. Mr Bojan Kontic, Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! I will touch on the two areas covered by this resolution. The first area is the area of health or health, the protection of the rights of patients, the law on patient rights is being prepared, which is good information or a good message sent by the Ministry. The basic rights of the patient are a quality and safe medical treatment, as set out in this resolution, which we are considering today. Health care is a very sensitive area. In the treatment process, the patient is certainly a very sensitive person, who is often in a situation where he does not know how to react in a particular case, especially when he is not satisfied with the treatment. The resolution also shows on page 58 the activities carried out by individual local communities, both the Maribor municipality, which has the Ombudsman's rights, as well as the Ljubljana municipality, which, together with the Slovenian consumer association, advises on the rights of patients, but unfortunately in Ljubljana and Maribor this territorially limited to the local community, which also provides funds for this. It may be good to think in this direction in order to follow the example of the Ljubljana municipality and the Maribor municipality, but in this particular case also, in particular Ljubljana and at the same time the National Assembly, or in the State budget, allocate funds for these activities to carry out these tasks. Thus, local budgets or budgets of local communities would not be burdened The second area I would like to talk about is an area that somehow touches the electromagnetic radiation. Among the main sources of electromagnetic radiation are the draft resolution on the national environmental programme, discussed last week in section 4.3.5. - electromagnetic radiation, including telecommunications devices listed, including mobile telephony. Precautions that certain phones and other telephone devices are not sufficiently safe from radiation should be taken seriously as the consequences of this type of health risk can only be demonstrated in the long term are also reflected in the resolution that we have considered in the past week. The data contained in the motion for a resolution on the national consumer protection programme today show that Slovenia belongs to the summit of the Member States of the European Union, the data is such, the penetration in this area is 90 connections per 100 population, and the average of the Member States of the European Union is 87 connections per 100 inhabitants, which is the case with the Republic of Slovenia at the very top of the Member States of the European Union. And it's not just phones or mobile phones, it's a problem that occurs mainly at base stations of mobile operators, it's where problems arise. Despite the high use of mobile phones, there are many opponents of base stationing and there will be a need to ensure, perhaps primarily by laws or by law, how to find a compromise or a suitable solution between good coverage with the signal and the safety of mobile service users against potential harmful radiation, especially these base stations. As they note in this resolution, the offer of mobile phones on our market is varied and secure, but we do not record anything about base stations resulting from the use of this mobile phone or this technology that is most developed at this time. So it will also be necessary to think about this when we adopt legislation that will somehow implement this resolution on the national consumer protection programme that we are considering today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Willie Rezman, DeSus. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Well, I would like to say to what I have already said, namely, that we are in solidarity with this resolution, adding that we support the fact that this resolution is also trying to complement itself and what to improve, but perhaps everything is not going in the right direction. I support what is enshrined in the joint amendment of the four parties I support in particular this for the sake of this because it is a matter of opening several doors to those which we consider to be NGOs in this area. We support because there has been some tension on the committee among them as well, and I hope that this amendment now means that these tensions have been overcome and that we honestly think that there must be more actors at the level of Slovenia to deal with consumer protection even at the non-governmental level. However, I cannot support an amendment that talks about this, I read, I quote, it would make sense to think in the direction of the legal application of the representative of the patient's rights, and so on, because so much nebulism in one sentence is rare, and this is an achievement. This sentence means nothing. This sentence has some intention, to follow what we have proposed in our amendment, the intention to somehow follow what would actually be done, and it talks about how it would make sense, what to think and, of course, everything in terms of terms, so that nothing would really happen and then it would be proposed as an amendment. That is why I cannot support such an amendment and my fellow Members. We will insist that the Ombudsman is institutionalised, but now we have not had this power and this happiness to bring him into this resolution, and we certainly hope so, in which of the fast-adopted laws, there is no doubt the need to do so. And the explanation for the LDS amendment, which refers to the fact that the Ombudsman's report did not detect a sufficient number of cases, such as cases, is not an argument. This may even say that people still suffer from fear of the white robe, that they still do not hope to exercise their rights, because they must go again where, say, these rights have not been respected or have been violated, and if this means, then this is so much more reason that this institution of the Ombudsman also realizes that we can do this power to enforce it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u55	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I would just like to place a brief emphasis on the area that I have already discussed on behalf of the Group of Members. In fact, for the period from 2006-2010, which is five years old, our country foresees around 900 million tolars of resources for the enforcement of consumer protection policy, by probably some, I suppose, at least some of the tasks set out in the table at the end of the resolution have not even been evaluated. If we're objective, we can assume that it's more than that money. However, there are 900 million tolars for these purposes, given the data that can be found in the resolution, or in the explanation, that it is one, so I will say, the inclusion of this [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the quality testing of EUR 50 000, if we put it into this joint testing in the European Union, of course, this money is quite too small. [[...]] For this reason, I think it would be a good idea to think about it, because the resolution has no financial implications as a rule, but in preparing the 2006 budget, the government will consider this, or when considering the budget that we will consider next week, but consider whether the amounts it has foreseen for the next five years are actually reasonable and if they justify the tasks set out in the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Time's up. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u58	On the basis of a call from a colleague from DeSUS, William Rezman, it's good to pick up the phone, at least the ones we're here for. Maybe just for a little while. I miss the resolution itself, in addition to in principle supporting it, the area of the protection of random consumers, if I say so. This is in particular the population which is not protected, especially young people, with regard to accessibility through communication technology, what is said to be cable technology, the Internet, as well as advertising, with regard to violent and pornographic content, I think that in this area Slovenia is very weak and there is no specific strategy and also consumer protection institutions, for the protection of random consumers, I think that there is too little involved in the resolution itself and that there is an urgent need to do something else in this area. This is my brief comment on this resolution and the call for us to work on this further.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u59	Mr Ljubo Bermić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In my own debate, I would like to define the content of this resolution, which discusses the rights of patients in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a content that, at least in the marriage area, has had a very long beard, as it was also through the Ombudsman's reports that it was necessary to create such a law that would speak about it in one place, and unfortunately we did not come to it. Today, the rights of patients are defined in the Health Act, which defines the rights of patients and defines them in a somewhat equivalent manner and under the same conditions, while the proposal for a law or law is somehow comparable to those laid down in other countries of the European Union. Of course, at the time of the enforcement of this law, there was a lack of uniform understanding of the individual provisions of the law, the shortcomings due to the unregulated and non-united procedures used by healthcare users in their cases of infringement of individual rights. Under the current legislation, patients or patients who have been violated these rights are given the right to exercise them because they can be enforced within their healthcare institution in the context of lighter infringements. In the event of a violation or a serious violation of rights, however, procedures are laid down in order to enable the patient to exercise his or her rights. The second option is how patients or patients can exercise their right, as well as the Ombudsman's Institute, and the debate at the 10th report itself had a lot of content on this subject, where the need for law, the law on patients' rights, was pointed out in one place, which would fully regulate it. The current practice, which can be seen from the Ombudsman's report, speaks of the fact that the very existence of patients' rights is not a problem, because we have proper coordination with international acts, but of course there is a greater problem where these rights need to be realized and there are many problems in the exercise of these rights itself, because the procedures are not sufficiently uniform and then patients who think they are being violated are doing their best. As has already been said here today, we have somehow assured that the Ministry of Health, as a competent ministry, will, by means of a bill which, according to the government's programme, should see the light of the world by the end of this year, be promised somehow and ensure that the text of this law should be obtained immediately after the new year, that is to say at the beginning of 2006. In the LDS, we welcome this, given that we have already published a proposal for the content of this law and we have not continued it in the procedure, just because it was the promise of the Ministry, the government's promise that it will come with its proposal. We therefore expect such a text to be present at the hearing of the National Assembly as soon as possible. Here we can also monitor that we have good cases at local level, both at the level of the Municipality of Maribor and at the level of the Municipality of Ljubljana, where there are certain ways of protecting these rights and helping them to exercise them. At the same time, we would have warned, and this was also somehow the purpose of this amendment, which has been tabled, in view of the constitutional enforcement of the Ombudsman, to reflect in this way, in order to form more guardians, or not to interfere in this context with the rights of the Ombudsman, whom we consider to be a constitutional category. On the other hand, in view of the fact that a number of issues arise in the exercise of the rights of patients or patients, it would be a matter of considering whether an amendment has also been adopted on the Committee in order to really record a specific place in the resolution, the Ministry of Health would consider the possibility of setting up the Ombudsman's Institute. With the amendment, it is primarily a matter of thinking in the direction of whether it is an exercise of the Ombudsman's Institute, which is possible to enforce an agent of patient rights who will participate in all these procedures of exercising these rights on the one hand, for the first time, rather than one who can advise that allows for the best possible realization of their rights, but, of course, he could also be elected to represent these rights as a patient's delegate. We therefore propose to consider this solution, which is proposed here by this amendment, for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u61	Mr. Drago Koren has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Martin Mikolitch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thanks again for saying that. Indeed, the resolution is a very large one, divided into areas that are also substantively well-treated, ultimately focused on some of the objectives to be achieved or achieved in the coming period in order to achieve as much as possible for consumer protection. I would like to say, however, that somehow in the entire resolution that I have processed in detail, I have not detected any protection of consumers from the so-called flood of these tourist offers. We know that today we have a lot of tourist agencies that offer a lot of things and these offers are at first sight attractive and affordable. However, we know that many times after this, the consumer is disappointed. In some ways, I think that this is a very important area, which will be very important in the future, because in fact, every citizen and citizen, including these or most of the citizens and citizens, also benefit from this service and this is not somehow covered by this resolution. We know or often hear a famous Slovenian term or words or phrase, "Uh, how they fucked me or how they pissed me" and I believe that at least one part of it would have to be framed in this resolution. Then there's another area that I'd touch about receiving television signals. In one part this is also somehow defined or described, but in the areas of Slovenia, in particular in areas bordering neighbouring Croatia, there is a major problem with the adoption of the first and second programmes of Slovenian television. In fact, I find it unfair to the consumer that he should actually point out this or that he is placed in an unequal position with others. In fact, the provider of this service should do something about it, for if a service is offered and charged, he should take care of it. If I go get the paper, get information at the store, of course I pay for it, and I get it. And there are still major problems in this area today, given that some areas of neighbouring Croatia have only a broadcast signal for neighbouring Croatia. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you. This makes the list of the discussers or all those who have been reported exhausted. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u64	Dear Members, the Honourable Vice President! Thank you so much for the comments, think. Of course, every five years there is an opportunity for us to think in some way about the key directions, the orientations in this important area, not only in our country, but also in the European Community, which is given a lot of attention. It is also right that our institutions, both government institutions and, of course, non-governmental institutions are involved in these integrations, in order to actually transfer best practices and thus improve the standard of consumer protection in Slovenia in various areas. There were two key themes to be felt throughout the debate. The first topic was, czech, the resolution is a written story, and the question is its implementation, how, and the key is the budget. I would like to point out that the implementation of this policy is not just a matter of one source, it is a matter of more resources. However, I can point out that something has changed significantly during the time that this government took responsibility. If I look at that a good 40 million was earmarked for transfers in the non-governmental sector for the public service operation in 2004, I can say that there are 78 million in 2005 and that there is an increase in the amount in 2006. In short, when we compare 2006 and 2004, it is almost 100% increase in resources, that is to say, to these key content, to these transfers, to the public or to the non-governmental sector in order to carry out the public service. Here we also consider a number of tests of products, food. So here we want to make a qualitative move forward. We want to inform and inform the consumer about, not only security, which is a duty, but also quality. Of course, this is also a key task for manufacturers. Manufacturers must be interested in informing consumers that their products are better than competitors. In fact, this is one type of advertising, one type of communication and I think that the optimal profit for the consumer is a combination in some way of the country's efforts in this area and, of course, the efforts of producers not least of the interests of users. So it's kind of a story that's not one-way, which is actually a matter of cooperation and common interests. And I hope, not only do I hope, I am sure that the resolution draws this spirit out of cooperation, after building on the actions of some with the action of others to achieve better results. In the budget itself, we anticipate and take into account comments that, of course, it is essential to ensure consumer protection, and these are also funds in the budget, so we are substantially increasing them by indices in some other areas. The second topic, which was discussed, was the protection of the patient's rights, or the Ombudsman's Institute. In fact, I think that the activity of the Ministry of Health and the drafting of the law on patient rights is the subject of the implementation of this commitment in the resolution. According to the information I have, the Minister will take into account the guidelines when preparing the Law on Patients' Rights, taking into account the interests of the patients in protecting their rights and the orientations expressed by Members in this regard. And I am fully associated with them in the view that this is an extremely important area. In fact, it also shows that consumer protection is interdisciplinary, that it is regulated in areas and that it might also be questionable, in some ways, that the resolution dictates some areas of what they should do. In fact, it was also an amendment or a proposal to establish or impose on the competent minister the institution of the Ombudsman in the resolution. So that I think that this solution is taken into account and taken into account in the drafting of this law and that there will probably be a broader substantive debate on the implementation of this idea, when, of course, this law will also be in the parliamentary procedure. But I believe it will be soon. Maybe it's just this thing about organized travel. I am aware that, in fact, the transposition of the Directive on organised travel, which is actually a directive of the European Community, is actually a solution to this interstate story, or not only interstately within the Member States of the European Community, but also wider. This is indeed a problem that the European Community has also addressed and is still dealing with, and this is why the transposition of this Directive is taking place in the Slovenian legal order in the framework and will also be devoted to the full implementation of these commitments in the future. Of course, all the concrete proposals that have been made here will be taken into account in the administration of two-year programmes for the implementation of this resolution, so I thank you for all these proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapters and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 28.11.2005. First of all, I am putting this chapter and the amendment of the LDS Group to the debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate section 4.5.1. and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll resume at 1300 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u66	Have a nice hello to you all. My name is Marko Pavliha, since I was away last week, I was officially absent, and some said that they had almost forgotten me. We are moving on to the final part of our session, to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, which, of course, will be possible if there is a little more silence in the Chamber. Thank you so much for your insight. It's a common warning. Before we go to the vote, please check the operation of the voting device, which means the orange light must burn on the right side of the card. In this case, a vote may be taken. Thank you. We continue with the 10th cut-off item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal of the Information Commissioner Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 1. This amendment was tabled by the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? First, I ask the representatives or the first representative of the proposers. Mr. Gantar, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much, on behalf of the Group of Members. I propose to the coalition MPs, including the government, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u68	Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u69	to support this amendment. [[...]] If we support this amendment in the second reading, of course, this gives the government the opportunity to adopt the amendment in the third reading as it would be best. And this is to transpose into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia the Directive, this and this, the European Parliament and the Council, of the day, this and this, on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, in the work relating to the establishment and functioning of the supervisory, independent body, as it is already called. If we adopt this amendment, which proposes only deletion, this Article 1 shall be amended. This then allows for a very consistent, technical and legal amendment written in the third reading and thus improves technical and otherwise this law, which is clearly stated in the LDS, for other reasons, and not for this reason, we will not be able to support. Thank you very much. I suggest we vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Would anyone like to explain the voice, either on behalf of the parliamentary group or on behalf of themselves? [[I don't see you in the mood.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There were 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] This means that the amendment has not been adopted. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the proposal for a law tomorrow, 30 November of this year, following the end of the last item of the agenda for this meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Again, I'm asking for a little more attention. In addition to the last item, item 17 of the agenda, the proposal for a resolution on the national consumer protection programme for the period 2006 to 2010. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to the motion for a resolution. First of all, to Chapter 4.1.4.1. We decide on the amendment of the LDS Group to this chapter. Would you like the motioner to explain his point of view? [[I see you don't.]] I'd like someone else to talk about this amendment. [[No, no, ……]] If not, we vote. Thank you very much. There are again 67 Members and Members of Parliament. The vote was 27 to 38, which means that the amendment of the LDS Group was not adopted. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 38.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Chapter 451 Would anyone like a word? [[I see you don't.]] We're moving to the vote. Thank you very much. There were 67 Members and Members present. 58 votes against 4. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are now voting on the resolution as a whole. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the resolution would be inconsistent. Would anyone like to explain their vote before this vote? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. Thank you very much. 71 Members and Members were present and 64 voted against, which means that the resolution was adopted. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. I welcome you all very warmly.
