ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Bevk, Mag. Milan M. Cvikl, Dimitrij Kovačič, Srečko Friend, Alojz Sok, Marjetka Uhan until 12 noon, Janko Weber from 2 p.m. on and Dr Marko Pavlih from 12.00 p.m. on, in part of today's session. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Establishment of Communities and on the Determination of Their Areas, the Abolition Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Member of Parliament, Mr Franz Jazbec. I give the floor to the bill's proposal for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! In autumn 1994, the National Assembly adopted a law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas, published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 60/94, which included the establishment of the Municipality of Stora without the territory of the Iron Stora, which was a part of the historic local community after World War II, first in 1952 to 1955 in the then congregation of Storera, and by 1955 in the local committee of Storera. In 1964, following the abolition of the local committees, the local community of Store, together with all the villages of Tehari, was established. In 1978, the local community of Storé was divided into two new local communities, Storé, with the territory of the ironworks, and the local community of Teharje, without the territory of the Iron Store. This arrangement was until 1.1.1995, when new municipalities were formed and the municipality of Storé was established without the territory of the new ironworks, which in fact came, for the first time in history, to the local community of Teharje. All the writings, protests by the leadership of the local community of Teharje, which speak of the history of more than 400 years in the past, are probably correct and are not "disputed" as a proponent of the amendment of the law. But the fact is that the historical injustice of the past occurred in the 20th century and that we are now living in the 21st century. The events of the last 60 years have made me a decisive belief that the only logical thing is that it is the Stares in Storrah. Everyone in Slovenia knows that it is a hardware store in Storrah, and few people know that it is a hardware store in Celje. To this day, no one has ever heard of Iron Celje, nor of Iron Teharje, but we all know the history of Celje, the Counts of Celje. Many Slovenians, I believe, have also been able to learn about the rich and varied history of Tehari, if not earlier, and according to the history of the past 60 years, which is sad and black because of the power of the time. In all the history of this place, however, it is impossible to find a reference to the ironworks in this place. There is also nothing to say about the Tekar or Celje Iron tradition, which was published in 1980 as a special edition of the esteemed historian Janko Orožn, who describes Celje and the surroundings of Celje in 1941-1997. This book also describes the time of construction of the ironworks in 1962-1975. There's something else I'd like to point out. That the elimination of this injustice under the current legislation of the Storea will not be obtained elsewhere than on the repair of the historical fact: the Iron Stores with the Storam. Financially there is no change in this mode of funding, only the structure of the funding changes. Your Honor! I would like to touch on the Government's views and on the opinions of the legislative and legal service, which, among other things, emphasise that the way I have presented it in the amendment is illegal and unconstitutional. In doing so, it should be pointed out that it is in the Official Journal of the European Union. 60/94, where congregations were then established, are as many as 30 congregations organized as I proposed in this amendment of the Law for the congregation of Storé and for the congregation of Celje. However, I was also greatly influenced by the constitutional decision issued by the Constitutional Court in 1997 on the initiative of the Municipality of Storé as a negative decision, since the municipality of Storé was then "refusaling" the decree which it had provided for or actually established by law. The Constitutional Court then made clear how this problem could be resolved. And after this constitutional decision, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u3	Mr. Jazbec, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u4	also prepared this novelty of the law. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Paul Rupar, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, respected media! Good morning to everyone first! At its 7th meeting, on 6 December 2005, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas, which was sent to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption by the rapporteur, Mr Franz Jazbec. Before the meeting, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the letters of the President of the Council of the Local Community of Tehran and the opinion of the Municipality of Celje and the Municipality of Stor, to which the President of the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, sent the draft law to the opinion. The municipality of Celje considered that the bill was unfounded and rejected, and the municipality of Store supported the bill. In the draft law, Member Franz Jazbec proposes to change the area of the Municipality of Store and consequently to change the area of the Municipality of Celje. The proposal states that in Article 152(2) of the Act, which provides for the area and seat of the Municipality of Store, the text "part of the village of Teharje" shall be added in the circle of the "area of the Iron Store" and that the word "Teharje" shall be replaced by the words "part of the village of Teharje" in Article 1, paragraph 3, which establishes the area of the seat of the Municipality of Celje. The legislative and legal service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gave an opinion on the draft law. In its opinion on the draft laws, the first pointed out that the amendment proposed in the law relating to the part of the village of Tehar meant the division of a single settlement into two parts. In doing so, she stressed that the legislation in force allowed for the change of the municipality’s areas only in the way that the entire settlement and not only part of the settlement were excluded from the existing municipality and joined the neighbouring municipality. In its opinion, however, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out that, in accordance with Article 139 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the municipality covers settlements or several settlements. The same Article also provides for the establishment of the municipality by law, previously held in a referendum in the area designated for secession. The law also lays down the territory of the municipality. Under this provision, the municipality shall consist exclusively of settlements in its entirety and not parts thereof. The Constitutional Decision also summarises the Law on Local Self-Government, which provides in Article 12, that the area of the municipality covers an area of settlement or several settlements. The Government also stresses that the identification and designation of the settlement areas is in accordance with the law on the appointment and registration of settlements, streets and buildings under the jurisdiction of the municipal council of the municipality in which it is located. Why the Committee decided that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration, but in its introduction it had already explained itself to the applicant, who, after the proposed legal pathways that I had mentioned so far, had not been able to reach an appropriate solution to this issue within a few years, or to correct the injustice that had occurred, to say so, at the time of the establishment of the new congregations in his congregation, which it is possible to claim that it is not the only one in the Slovenian territory. In these and similar cases, it is not possible to solve any such case under the current legislation, which, both when setting the boundaries of the municipalities and when determining the legal channels for their change, has the political and economic interest of a stronger one. The Committee, by seven votes in favour and two against, decided that the proposal was appropriate for further consideration and recommended that the national assembly should adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Rupar. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinion. Dr. Ivan Žagar, Minister without a license, in charge of local self-government and regional policy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and determining their areas, Mr Franc Jazbec proposed a change in the area of the municipality of Store and consequently a change in the area of the municipality of Celje. The proposal reads that in Article 152(2) of the Law establishing the municipalities and establishing their areas establishing the area and seat of the Municipality of Storea, the words "part of the village of Teharja", "area of the Iron Store" shall be added to the text "part of the village of Tehar, which does not cover the area of the Iron Store" in Article 1, paragraph 3, which specifies the areas and the seat of the municipality of Celje. This settlement is not in the register of spatial units, so there can be no amendment. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore considers that the conditions for the adoption of this law are not met. It suggests that the Municipality of Store and the Municipality of Celje try to reach an agreement on the change of the area of the village of Teharje. If an agreement cannot be reached, the law on local self-government shall give the possibility of being judged in a competent court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At its meeting on 7 December 2005, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development did not reach a conclusion that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas is not suitable for further consideration. So we are in a situation where we are deciding at today’s meeting on a proposal for a law governing matter contrary to the fundamental principles of the establishment of municipalities or the setting up of their areas. As is known, it is a problem to determine the area of the municipalities of Store and Celje, namely the work of the village of Teharje. Currently, the entire village of Teharje, which is also located in the village of Celje. According to the proposed law, the identification of the areas of Celje and Store was contrary to the applicable rules and principles, since the part of the village of Teharje, which covers the area of the Iron Store, could not be clarified because they are not in the area of the Iron Store. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are, of course, aware of the reasons given by the Municipality of Storea for joining the Iron Store area under its territory. However, we regret the decision of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development to continue its consideration of the proposed law at the meeting of the National Assembly. In our firm belief, the Committee should find that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Teharje is a single village, and the legislative service has clearly warned that it means the adoption of this amendment to the law of the division of a single settlement, even though legislation allows only the identification of the entire settlement from one congregation or the integration of the entire settlement into another congregation. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed that the mayors of both municipalities, namely Celja and Stor, should agree and find a negotiated solution in accordance with Article 75 of the Real Estate Registration Act, the State Borders and Spatial Units. This is also the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. In doing so, we must not forget and stress in particular that the opinion on the proposed law has also been given by the local community of Tehran, which strongly opposes the bill. They also state that the disputed area is situated in the area of the Cadastral municipality of Teharje and that all transport routes and other infrastructure are linked to the Tehar Road, which is an integral part of the local community of Tehran. In addition, they cite a number of other arguments, including historical and economic facts, which clearly contradict the claims made by the proposer of this law. In addressing the proposed law, we must clearly note that the adoption of the proposed law means, if adopted, a dangerous precedent for the legislator or this national assembly. I hope that we are all aware that the adoption of this law would mean that we are also giving legitimacy to all further laws by which individual congregations will try to solve problems with respect to parts of the settlement or dissatisfaction with the passage of municipal borders. It is likely that a number of areas in which neighbouring municipalities have different views and it would be quite funny if, instead of the practice of reaching agreement or resolution on a suitable trial basis, the practice of amending the law establishing municipalities and determining their areas had been introduced. Members of the Slovenian People's Party of the proposed law will therefore not be supported. However, since I am sure that we want all Members to maintain the credibility of the National Assembly, I expect that other Members will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you very much. In the DeSUS Group, we have a relatively conservative attitude as far as local governments are concerned, which means that we are not inclined to have major shocks in changing local self-government as we now have, and we are not inclined to do so now. We are more inclined to do what the government is willing to do in this case, and we will also support such a decision. We consider that it is wrong, even if we rely on justice and justice, to have different mayors, in particular when it comes to their local communities, the very different criteria and the different judgments, to judge that it is wrong for them to change individual congregations on their noses and against all legislation, to attach or separate individual parts of certain municipalities, especially because we estimate that it is not so much a matter of justice, but rather that it is a matter of acquiring important real estate property and of course the beneficial financial consequences for one and the negative consequences for the other community that it is now talking about. We will therefore not give support to the decision taken by the parental committee. Therefore, no, because this is not in accordance with the Constitution, so no, because this is not in accordance with the legislation, so no, because this is also not in line with the Government's view. And in my opinion, I participated in this committee, it was only in accordance with the temporary nature of one party out of pure party solidarity. All others who judged by reason of soundness of mind or rationality were not inclined to do so. Therefore, we will not support the conclusion that the law is appropriate. So, we oppose this decision, we judge that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Franc Jazbec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the draft law. It will also be supported because the Constitutional Court had already proposed in 1997 how the complication had arisen, and it was possible to resolve the disagreement. The Constitutional Decision under order number US-18561 is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 68/97. This decision was adopted by the Constitutional Court by five votes in favour and two abstentions, or by a separate opinion of two Constitutional Judges, for which I can say that one could tell them that they were biased, one or the other. The separate opinion was given by Mr Matevž Krivic and Dr. Tone Jerovšek. See, all the debate that speaks for the fact that marriage is not in accordance with the law, that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, that is, it does not hold back. In 1994, when congregations were established, the National Assembly adopted as many as 30 congregations, where part of the settlement was established. This is said to be a category of part of the settlement constitutional and legal category. Let us take a look at some congregations. Zagorje ob Savi has four such settlements, also the municipality of Maribor has two such settlements, so the village has Slovenj Gradec, Vrhnika, the municipality of Vransko shares the village of Zajesovnik with another municipality. Municipality of Vitanje, Velika Lašče, Trebnje, Trbovlje have three settlements which are shared with other municipalities, namely Čeče, Prapreče, Vrh. Šmarje pri Jelšah and Šentjur are divided into villages Grobelno, Šentilj, Starše, Sodražica, Slovenske Konjice, Selnica ob Drava, Ravne na Koroškem, Podlohnik, thinkinja, Markovci, Lovrenc na Pohorje, Logatec, Lithija, Lendava, Kungata, Kamnik, Hrastnik, Horjul, Dravograd and Polhov Gradec. It is said, all that someone has wanted to launch today and has launched for the past eleven years that it has been unconstitutional, illegal, and given what can be read in the constitutional decision, it cannot be held back. That's what I'd say. As early as 1994, it was a political decision on how the congregations formed or stood. This decision today, or when this proposal is voted on, will be a political decision somehow. However, in the case of the amendment of the law, it is essentially to remedy some injustice that has historically belonged to somehow the Storams. As I said, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Jazbec. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u16	Nice greetings, president, everyone else! The content of the bill is a change in the area of two municipalities, the municipality of Celje and the municipality of Storé. The municipality’s area is supposed to change by adding a part of the village of Teharje to the district of Storé. In the municipality of Celje, the village of Teharje is replaced by the part of the village of Teharje, which does not include the area of the Iron Store. We note that the amendment proposed in the law means the division of a single settlement into two parts. We also note that the old law governing the procedure for the establishment of municipalities and for the determination of their territories, which are no longer in force, did not provide for such division. The amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government, which has redefined the procedure for the establishment of municipalities, does not provide for a change in its territory in this way. The Law on Local Self-Government also provides that the area of the municipality, which covers an area of settlement or several settlements which are related to the common needs and interests of the population, and that part of the municipality which may be evicted from the municipality and may join a neighbouring municipality covers an area of settlement or several neighbouring settlements. The ironworks area, however, is only part of the village of Teharja. Only Teharje as a whole could be the subject of a change of law. We therefore consider that such division would not be in accordance with the law. In addition, in the event of a change in the territory of the municipality, an entire preliminary procedure should be carried out prior to the legislative procedure, which also relates to the referendum. The proposal to change the area of the Municipality of Store and the municipality of Celje is also questionable because there are no inhabitants in the area of the Stare, which would make it impossible to hold a referendum. In LDS, we are aware that this is a questionable question, since the integration of the part of the village of Teharje, which includes the area of the ironworks, is supported by the municipality of Store, and is opposed by both the municipality of Teharje and the municipality of Celje. Even if we could believe the motioner's allegations that there was a mistake at the time of the establishment of the congregation of Storera, because the border of the settlement should not be covered by the borders of the local community, as well as by the Government and the legislature of the National Assembly, we believe that the applicant must seek other legal channels. It seems unacceptable to us that the proposed law, the mayor of the Municipality of Store, is trying to exploit its position as a member of the national assembly in order to take part of the territory of the neighbouring municipality, in a manner that is not in accordance with existing legislation, against the will of the municipality as well as the local community, whose territory includes the desired area of the Iron Store. It is even more unacceptable that such work could be said to have been the attempted theft of land, supported by a ruling coalition. Despite the explicit opposition and negative opinion of the Government and the legislature of the National Assembly, the home labour body supported the draft law. At the LDS, we hope that some members of the ruling coalition will see their mistake and forget their clientele and their collegiality and act in accordance with the rule of law in order to respect the rule of law. If the National Assembly supports such a bill, it will not only act contrary to the principles of the rule of law, but will also act contrary to the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, as it will open the way for changing the boundaries of municipalities beyond the law of certain procedures and the will of the population. Today only the border of the part of the settlement that is uninhabited can change, and tomorrow the border of the settlement can change, including the inhabitants of this settlement. The LDS will not participate in these non-essential activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u18	Good day to all present. Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have decided that everyone around this law will create his own opinion and decide, as he thinks best. However, we believe that the decision on such matters on the basis of a law tabled once by another Member or group of Members is very risky because it depends on which current majority in the National Assembly, but not only on this year or on the current term, but on any mandate, it is possible to transfer or move the borders of individual municipalities on a paper as costly to anyone. We had this experience yesterday, which we were listening to or observing at the meeting of the municipal council of the Municipality of Koper, when just as the municipal council decided that the border of a settlement would move quite nicely toward the west. We believe that such decisions should be considered thoroughly, years ago, when a referendum was held in 1994 to establish the congregation of Storera in divorce from the municipality of Celje, the Municipality of Celje, that it was then decided by referendum, whose boundaries are the same for all the remaining 190 congregations. So if we decide today to change the border between the two municipalities by a decision of the National Assembly or by law adopted by the National Assembly, without asking the inhabitants, at least these local communities that live in an area where there is also a part of the Iron Store, although no one lives there, but there is a lot of work. As a result, it is essential that people ask what they think about it. I say that what I am saying right now is not the opinion of the Group of Members, but I say what I think and many others in this Assembly of States, even though it is not from the same Group of Members as I do. Since this is not a political issue, it is a question of when the national assembly raises itself above the will of people, when it rises above the opinion of the people in some environment and says, we will decide where the boundaries of your municipality are and in which municipality will be part of your territory, namely the local community of Teharje; it could be any local community in any municipality in Slovenia, from east to west and from of course to south. I believe that this issue needs to be carefully considered. Regardless of the questionable nature of the matter, it is difficult to make a decision because it is necessary to ask people what they think, but not all the inhabitants of Celje and not all the inhabitants of Storre, but those living in the local community whose territory this is. That is why I think it would be useful, however, for us to think carefully about this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles and it is not possible to table amendments to the draft law. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th point or at the latest at 17.55 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS TO LOCAL LOVE LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Marijan Pojbič. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. The representatives of the candidates do not want a word, so I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, who considered the proposal to be the working body of the mother. Mr. Pavel Rupar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At the 7th session of 6.12.2005, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the draft law amending the Law on Local Elections, which you sent to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption by Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mr Drago Koren, proposing that the proposed law be considered and adopted following a reduced procedure. Before considering the draft law, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. The President of the National Assembly sent a proposal for a law to the mayors and mayors of the municipalities and municipalities. The opinion was sent to the National Assembly within a given time limit by the mayor of Žirovnica, who agrees with the bill. The legislative and legal services have, inter alia, pointed out that, in determining the necessary support, at least 3% of the signatures from the number of voters in the electoral unit for the election were raised by constitutional and legal considerations, in particular with regard to the Constitutional Court decision in the explanatory memorandum, which states that in principle the equality of the electorate should be respected and that the right should also be taken into account in the legislative regulation of candidates in the elections. In doing so, the principle of general electoral law does not prohibit the legislator from laying down certain conditions for the candidacy if it does not prevent candidates or lists of candidates who would have at least a minimum real opportunity to obtain a mandate in the elections. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considered it necessary to increase the number of signatures so far for the submission of letters, but pointed out that the proposal did not take into account the diversity of municipalities in terms of the number of people or voters, since it represented 3% of the signatures of voters in larger municipalities a significant change in relation to the regulation so far, and therefore proposed that the applicant in Article 2 which defines the submission of lists of candidates for the municipal council by way of a proportional system should place the upper limit of the required number of signatures or set the scale according to the number of voters in the electoral unit. Various opinions were expressed by the committee in order to require 3% of the support for the election to the municipal council of such a restriction on voting rights that would prevent the election of municipal council candidates who would have at least the minimum real opportunity to obtain a mandate in the municipal council. On the other hand, the opinion was expressed that the current regime based on the simplification of the procedure for the submission of candidates by voters, since often only a few signatures by the electorate were sufficient, caused a number of difficulties in the functioning of the municipal council. Because of the large number of elected municipal councillors from the so - called non - party lists, political fragmentation of the municipal council and the impeding of decision-making is taking place. In most of its discussions, the members of the Committee felt that there was a need to increase the number of signatures so far, but the proposed solution in some, in particular the larger municipalities, lays down a disproportionate number of signatures needed. They advocated that a suitable solution should be reached in the course of further consideration of the bill's proposal with regard to the establishment of the upper limit, the required number of signatures, or that an appropriate scale should be set according to the number of voters in the electoral unit. The amendments adopted by the Committee and the proposed amendments to the amended bill therefore seek to arrive at an appropriate solution with regard to the setting of the lower and upper limits of the required number of signatures or the setting of the corresponding scale according to the number of voters in the electoral unit. The aim of the bill remains to set the upper or lower limit on the number of electorate signatures needed for the application of candidates for the municipal council and for the mayor. To the National Assembly, I propose that, on the basis of the definition of the proposed amendments, it also adopts a proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Rupar. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Franci Rokavec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. While the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers it necessary to increase the number of signatures so far, the proposed solution of some, in particular in the largest municipalities, provides for a disproportionate number of signatures needed. Therefore, the government proposes to the candidates and, of course, to the National Assembly that, in Article 1, which defines the submission of lists of candidates for the municipal council through a proportional electoral system, the ceiling of the required number of signatures or the number of voters in the electoral unit should be placed on the table. The Government also substantiates its opinion by a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, assessing the constitutionality and legality of Article 43 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which is of such a nature that it is also necessary to take into account it in elections to local authorities. In its decision 363/96, the Constitutional Court expressed its position on the possibility of legally establishing the conditions for determining the necessary support for the candidacy in the elections. The decision is based on the principle of generality and equality of electoral rights, which must also be taken into account in the legislative regulation of election candidates. Infringement of the principle of generality could constitute a restriction on electoral rights if it was excessive, that is, if there is a likelihood that the required support would prevent candidates from taking office in elections who would have at least a minimum real opportunity to obtain a mandate. For example, if too many electoral signatures were placed as a condition. The proposed solution could therefore mean that the number of signatures needed to submit a list of candidates is higher than the likely number of votes needed to elect one candidate. The proposal to amend Article 106 amends the required number of signatures of voter support for the mayor's application. The system used to distinguish municipalities from the number of signatures according to the number of inhabitants. The proposal to amend this Article follows the solution as indicated in the amendment to Article 68(1), so the number of signatures is also required in this segment 3% of the number of electors in the electoral unit, of course, in this case throughout the municipality. In this article too, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia believes that the number of signatures to date needs to be increased, but the number of signatures proposed, particularly in the largest municipalities, is disproportionate. Therefore, the Government proposes to the law's proponents to define in this article the same way to invest candidates as the government has warned in amending Article 68 of the Law, that is to say taking into account the diversity of municipalities according to the number of voters. The amended proposal for a law supplemented by the Home Committee and the amendments to the amended law before us show that, of course, the desired solution is going in the right direction, so the Government supports the amendment of SDS, New Slovenia, SLS and DeSUS, where it resolves the issue of that decision by the Constitutional Court and also supports the proposal as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Rockhead. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! We also respect or welcome, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the proposal for a goal or follow the objective of the bill. However, I would like to say that the introduction seems to us to be a bit incomprehensible that the applicant has waived the introductory explanation, especially when we are looking at the content of the law, because the fact is that, as a result of the possible adoption, the law being enacted within the framework of the law on local elections and one of those laws which are essential to the Slovenian municipalities is that the resignation by Mr Pojbič and Mr Koren as candidates, at least after our assessment, is unacceptable. The fact is that the bill, if adopted, would make it difficult to perform in the elections, i.e. in the local elections of the entry-in lists, and it is a fact that the bill, if adopted, would prevent the performance of the various exotic lists that are being sought for entry into the various municipal councils. Second. We support the Slovenian National Party, so we support the fact that we meet different exotic leaves in elections. However, we are skeptical about those leaves that are collected with a view to long-term integration and the impact on life in local communities. I would like to point out that, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we have proposed an amendment within the framework of the national working body, with which, according to our assessment, we have tried or attempted to correct one of the major inconsistencies and irregularities in the draft law, a reference to the number of electoral beneficiaries. According to our assessment, from the day of the election to the first deadline for the holding of the mayoral elections, as well as the deadline moving from the first deadline to the second deadline for the mayoral elections, the number of electoral beneficiaries is increasing. However, they are not misled, so they are released, and our assessment suggests that the law is unconstitutional or that active and passive electoral rights are violated and reduced. According to our assessment, it would be far more reasonable to define a percentage requirement for the number of inhabitants in the draft law. The register is kept up-to-date within the competent ministry and access to a specific number is also much more correct than the condition for the appearance or submission of applications. From this point of view, I can also point out that, within the framework of the Group of Members, we will continue to table an amendment in the course of this procedure and this debate, with which we will try to persuade Members and Members to take a solution that would be right in particular to candidates acting both within the function of the Mayor's proposal and within the function of performing for the Municipal Council. At the same time, I would like to conclude that we stress the proposal's tendency to put the proposal into consideration after a reduced procedure and thus to intervene in, in my opinion, the correct practice, which has not always been implemented, is that electoral legislation does not change during the electoral year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thanks again. The Local Elections Act is often the subject of reflection and debate, in particular with regard to independent lists, and with regard to percentages or absolute numbers that it wants to be made available either to prevent independent papers and candidates. However, we should not overlook what the main purpose was in the material that was the proposal for our thinking. The main purpose was to tighten up, so explicitly stated in the material, by tightening the way in which candidates are applied for non-participating, i.e. independently. We certainly do not fully agree with this in the DeSUS Group. In part, we can and will explain where we can. The aim of these exacerbations is, for the first time, to give rise to fewer problems, boycotts, in municipal councils, in order to be more monolithic in municipal councils, so that there would be fewer political entities - perhaps at the end of the day only one, in some local communities is so - and that it would be possible, I would say, more one-way directing regarding decision-making. Thus, the reasons that led to some goal and purpose are also recorded in government literature. It says that independence is disruptive by performing in congregational councils. The government advocates or advocates against fragmentation or against the possibility of a wide range of interests in the municipal world. The reason is also that the presence of independent papers and candidates has led to the inability to make decisions. But sometimes they are not able to make decisions, even if there is no one independent in the municipal world, so they are just client lists and candidates. He says they're having trouble working. They are likely to have problems operating in all municipal councils, because different arguments need to be coordinated and if coordination is a problem, then such problems arise. But it is right that we have such problems, so that we strive to coordinate and to make an optimal effort to implement those interests that individual saints or saints represent. In principle, it is a new division of political space, as was the case yesterday with the new division of political space to enable the establishment of a larger number of new municipalities, and it is therefore in principle that this independent, independent, independent, or more or less dependent policy be pushed out of the municipal councils. But let's see what a comparative view of Europe says. So the comparative view tells us that things are different there. In the 15 countries for which I have the data, things are arranged differently, so that there is a much more favourable attitude towards independent lists and candidates. We have 150 municipalities with independent lists, we have 60 independent mayors, we have 500 independent councillors, we have even three municipal councils, 100% of which are made up of independents themselves. Who cares? So that people who are willing to think for themselves and not just subject themselves to the party directives, so that people who are willing to represent others are not just party interests. Of course, independent sheets can also be a problem. Like customer weaknesses, so are weaknesses in independent lists. One weakness is particularly characteristic and unusual. Here, there are also Members of the National Assembly who have their own independent lists in the municipal councils and their independent candidates. Absurd. Those of you who don't know this, I have a list, you can come, show you that you wouldn't talk about names here in front of everyone. As for the signing of the amendment: we do not support this decision, we do not support the coalition amendment, why not, but we will talk later.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u28	Dearly respected, since the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group is identical to that of the proposalr, I have not given my position on behalf of the proposalr for one simple reason not to repeat myself and, of course, I apologize to this entire assembly. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the amendment of the law on local elections, as well as the amendments tabled by all four coalition SDS parties, Nova Slovenija, Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, which change the level of the necessary signatures of voters in the bill if a group of voters submits nominations and lists of candidates for members of the municipal council, from 3% to 2% and the upper limit of the required signatures 2 000 500. When applying for mayoral candidates, the percentage of signatures required remains the same as for proportional elections in the municipal council. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are convinced that there is now a regulation in force where candidates or lists of candidates for the municipal council are determined by voters with only 15 signatures more than inadequate. The purpose of the law is to determine the minimum number of electorate signatures necessary for the application of candidates for the municipal council and for the mayor, taking into account the diversity of municipalities according to the number of voters. The bill regulates the number of electoral signatures needed in cases where a group of voters submits nominations and lists of candidates for members of the municipal council through both a majority and a proportional system. The draft law does not amend the provisions concerning the number of electoral candidates for members of the municipal council, the representative of the Italian and Hungarian nationalities communities and the Roma community, Article 49 of the Law on Local Elections, so that the area remains unchanged. Similarly, the third paragraph of Article 109, which provides for a way of running in the holy villages, local and quarterly communities, remains unchanged. As has already been said, in our parliamentary group we will support the amendment of the law on local elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Pojbich. Mr Aloise Posedel will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to everyone who's in the hall! The position of the LDS delegation shall be as follows: In its consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Local Elections, adopted on 15 July 2005, the National Assembly considered a proposal to raise the threshold or the number of voters who could apply for election of members of the municipal council. He did so in a very clumsy way, even in such a way as to create a legal void. At that time, we opposed this and also tabled an amendment to Article 4, which was adopted and which prevented such changes that would lead to a legal void. Today, the National Assembly is once again facing a proposal that changes the threshold for the application of candidates for the election of members of the municipal council. The LDS thinks that the justification of the bill's proponents for creating the proposed solutions is inappropriate and recognises that the current regime, which places the support of only 15 voters as a condition for the submission of the ballots, is not appropriate. The current regime does not take into account differences in the size of municipalities and constituencies. The law provides that candidates for members of the municipal council or for a list of candidates in the individual constituency may be appointed by signing a group of 15 electors who have permanent residence. Therefore, changes are needed and would also be supported within reasonable limits within the LDS Group, as they would achieve that the elections are supported by those lists that truly enjoy voter support. The lists of voters or independent lists, in our view, are necessary and bring more democracy into the political life of the congregations. The party elites cannot become the only ones to determine and lead the congregation. All people are not and do not want to be partyed, yet they must have the opportunity to participate in local elections, to be elected to the municipal council, and then to lead and co-decision in the direction of the congregation. Inadequate restriction of independent sheets would be a step backwards, as it is a trend that stems from the very essence of local self-government, that is to say that people or citizens and citizens participate in the management of local issues. People in individual environments are not satisfied with the policy of individual political parties and want to make a different decision, so they need to be given the opportunity to run and that they can also be elected on non-participating lists. Of course, reasonable restrictions are needed. The initial 3% threshold marriage proposal is not appropriate. The restriction would be given and necessary, but also a correction of the threshold of 2% and the determination of the maximum number of voters proposed by the ruling coalition is disproportionate in our view, given the required votes for election to the municipal council. Here we come from data on local elections in 1998 and 2002. And if we illustrate the numbers on the Maribor City Hall case, we should gather over 1,900 signatures to apply for municipal council members, and the number of votes needed to elect one member to the municipal council was lower than that in the Maribor elections. It is said that the creation of the candidate list alone would require more signatures than the last two elections required votes for election to the municipal council. Therefore, in the LDS Group we propose a reasonable amendment, and I hope that the other groups will also examine it, and this reasonable amendment takes into account the government's position in this regard, it is said, that a scale is set according to the number of voters and a linear reduction according to the size of the municipality. The number of signatures required to support the candidacy ranges from 1% to 1.6%, with the upper limit being set at 1000 voters. I hope you'll also confirm this amendment of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr Posedel. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I also wanted to point out in the introduction that the applicant did not further explain the proposal, but we heard the reason, although it would be a more normal procedure for him to explain and say that the Group of Members agrees with him, not the other way around. The debate in the home committee itself on the proposed solution, which would significantly strengthen the possibility of applying for local elections, is evidence that the proposal for amendments is not ideal. The opinion on whether to tighten the criteria has also remained shared. What has somehow been taken into account is the solution now contained in the proposal for a single valid reason: the amendment has opened the possibility of submitting amendments to the amended bill. It is possible to attach to the amendments that the existing solution is not a good one. 15 voters in the constituency, regardless of the size of the congregation or the number of voters, are too low. It is likely that this number can be acceptable to the minimum constituencies, and so do the amendments. However, in electoral units, which number more than 10,000 voters and voters, it is negligiblely small and it is entirely irrelevant if this is not recorded in the law at all. At the same time, it is not acceptable for conditions to tighten in this direction and to this extent to prevent independent candidates and candidates from taking part in local elections. What for? The answer is very much in hand, political parties or their representatives do not want independent competition, although sometimes, I have in mind independence, it may also be questionable. The second answer is that mayors do not want independent councillors or councillors in municipal councils, as problems may arise in the formation of so - called local coalitions. In doing so, we overlook the fact that political parties are left to the internal rules of the parties, which can only be an association of some similar thinkers and members who are thus allowed to run, and all other independent parties must collect the signatures of the support. There are also thousands in the largest local communities. An already simple calculation shows that the proposal tabled in the parliamentary procedure in individual constituencies required more signatures for the candidacy than then for the election itself. Illogically, unjustly and contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which states in explanation that the principles of generality should be held, Mr President, are you still holding a meeting? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u33	Yeah, it's true. Please give peace and keep your voices quiet, even if anything, you talk quietly. Don't bother the speaker!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Illogically, unfairly and contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, which states in explanation that the principles of generality and equality of electoral rights should also be taken into account in the legal regulation of election candidates. Any candidate or candidate list must have the same legal opportunity to take part in the elections. In this principle, the generality of electoral rights does not prohibit the legislator from laying down certain conditions for the candidacy, provided that it does not preclude the election of candidates or lists of candidates who would have any minimum real opportunity to obtain a mandate in the elections. For example, if too many electoral signatures were placed as a condition. Let me give you just one example. The municipality, which consists of one constituency and accounts for 33,000 inhabitants, has 25,000 electors and voters. If there was a solution of 3%, as proposed in the original text, this would mean 750 signatures. In the event of a 60% election, 15,000 voters would go to the polls, who elect 33 saints or saints. Approximately 450 votes are required for the election, i.e. less. The coalition amendment reduces this difference slightly, but it will still be necessary to collect more signatures for the candidacy than votes for the election. The most appropriate solution would therefore be a lower percentage and a limit on the required number of voters and voters, both downwards and upwards. A complementary amendment to the law is still not the best solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good day to all in this hall! In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we support the proposal to amend the law on local elections, with the proposed amendment of the coalition. The law is very short and easy to understand. It is already necessary for independent lists and non-participating lists to submit, together with the application, the signatures of the electorate supporting the application. However, the number of signatures is now extremely low. In our parliamentary group, we already wanted such an amendment to be adopted in order to increase the number of signatures required in the proposed law on amendments to the Local Elections Act adopted by the National Assembly on 15.7.2005. At that time, the mother's working body adopted a provision stipulating that candidates for members of the municipal council in the individual constituency may be appointed if they provide at least 4% of the electorate's signatures that have permanent residence in the constituency. Such a solution was not adopted at the time. I don't think she was the best. In the parliamentary group, we agreed that a suitable solution should be found in this area, since we are convinced that in the last local elections in Slovenia or in the municipalities there was an abnormal number of independent papers. That is why, together with my fellow Member Pojbič, I decided to table a proposal for a law amending the law on local elections in Articles 54, 68 and 106. The provisions of Articles 54 and 68 define the number of electors' signatures required in determining candidates or a list of candidates for municipal councils. 106. Article 106 is the number of electoral signatures needed to submit the mayor's application. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development has also shown that the government believes that the number of signatures for the submission of papers needs to be increased, but the proposed solution in some, in particular the largest municipalities, provides for a disproportionate number of signatures needed. The Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development also considered and supported the objectives of the applicants, but it also assessed that the border was too high. The Commission has therefore proposed to limit the lower and upper limits of the required number of electoral signatures. The amendment to Article 54 was adopted on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development by requiring at least 2% of the number of voters in the electoral unit, but not less than 30 and not more than 2,000. The same was accepted for the first paragraph of Article 68 and for running for mayor. Following the consideration of the draft law on the working body, several amendments were tabled. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party will support the proposed amendment of coalition parties, which in the law on local elections amends Article 54 so that the number of signatures is at least 2% of the number of voters in the electoral unit on the day of the call for elections, but not more than 2500. Article 68 is amended as well as for the mayor's election. So in the New Slovenia Group of the Christian People's Party we will support the law and amendment of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Root. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you very much again for your words, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The current law of the local elections provides that candidates for members of the municipal council in each constituency may also be appointed by signing a group of at least 15 voters who have permanent residence in the constituency, both in the proportional system and in the majority electoral system. However, between 50 and 250 voters are required to determine the candidate for mayor. The fact is that the provisions of the applicable law on local elections are relatively non-requireous, since 15 signatures do not constitute any restriction for anyone. This fact may affect the seriousness of the application. It also makes sense that the candidate fulfils a certain limit, some serious condition that allows him to apply. In determining these conditions, however, caution should be exercised as the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees general and equal electoral rights. If we set too strict conditions for the possibility of running, we could intervene in passive electoral law. On the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the number of signatures still acceptable or appropriate was intended for a very broad debate. A whole series of opinions was given. The initial proposal of this law provided or stipulated that 3% of the number of voters in the electoral unit would be required for the submission of the nomination by voter signatures. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that such a solution would go too far into passive electoral law or the principle of general electoral law. That is exactly why we drafted an amendment on the parental committee, which reduced this percentage from 3% to 2%. The Committee has adopted our amendment's proposal, and in this way we have also drawn closer to the guidelines of the legislative, legal, government and commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. We therefore now have a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Local Elections, which according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group is appropriate and will also be supported. For we believe that the proposed law meets all the criteria and represents the best possible compromise between different views on determining the number of signatures needed. Above all, it is important that this proposal also follows the recommendations of the Legal Service and takes into account the Constitutional Court's decision in which the Constitutional Court wrote down, and I quote: "The restriction would be given if there was a likelihood that the requested support would prevent candidates from taking part in the elections or lists of candidates who would have at least a minimum real opportunity to obtain a mandate in the elections." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. We have completed the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 15.12.2005. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups and the amendment of the LDS Group. Who wants a word? Mr. Znidarsich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the parliamentary group, I signed the amendment of the coalition to the proposed law because in several negotiations within the coalition we have already reduced the bill from 3% to 2% and limited the ceiling to 2000 as some kind of compromise option. I am sure that this will also be fully supported by our Group of Members. Later it turned out that I was just trying to understand myself as acceptable such a compromise. There is still a belief in the Group of Members that the restriction is too severe. I will support this amendment today because I also signed this matter in the belief that it will not withstand constitutional judgment. I firmly believe that 2000 is such a severe restriction, which is contrary to the right, to run for the local elections for independent candidates. I am sure that the possible candidates will demand this judgment and that if adopted, such a law will fall. However, for the other members of the Group of Members, I can, of course, demand that they follow me, which I have coordinated. They will therefore vote in their own conviction in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Kangler!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I have to be honest with myself in this place and say that I will vote on my conscience. Now I'm going to ask you a few questions and arguments. I have quite a few questions for Mr Pojbič's proposal. And I hope you'll answer me in this place. If we are talking in the last ten years about local self-government, what self-government means at all - respected fellow Members of Parliament. This means that we leave self-government to a group or residents in the municipality area. But directly with such an amendment that we have in hand, we are forcing people to join political parties. And that's not the problem, my well-respected colleagues. With such an amendment, you have violated the proportion of candidates at the local and national levels. Look, my friend Pojbič tried to get or put 4% of the voting beneficiaries into the basic law. 4% of the electorate for the Maribor Municipality stands for 3,500 voters. What does that mean? The municipality of Maribor has only one administrative unit and one office. Who will provide a column of people standing in line to come with their ID card and sign and give their support? And we've reduced it to 2%, and we're talking about 1,800 people who have to give support. And then one group gets organized, says 1,800, and we're moving them to the administrative unit. According to Maribor, three such groups are organized for the population, which is 5,000 people. The hands begin to flow and five thousand people will have to be transferred to the administrative unit, set up a line because it's one office. Even if there are three or five offices or ten employees, they don't physically get it through. Who or Mr. Virant will provide additional funds for employees? Who's going to cover these material costs of employees in administrative units who are going to have to do this? Second of all, there are 5,000 people running for president of the country. However, according to Mr Pojbič's proposal, an ordinary councillor in the Municipality of Ljubljana would need the same number of people. So if I want to be president of the country and collect electoral signatures all over Slovenia, I need five thousand. However, if I want to be one councilman since the 45th in the Municipality of Ljubljana, I still need 5,000. What does that mean? This means that obviously some of you want to discipline people at the local level, so that they have to join the parties. What if these people aren't happy with customers, not on the left, not on the right? What if these people, because of their interests in some local environment, want to organise themselves and prepare their own candidacy and submit a list in accordance with all democratic rules? In this way, we restrict the right to run for office at the local level. How many signatures do we need if one member wants to run as an independent candidate? And 2,000, a thousand, five hundred less. It means that if I want to run as an independent candidate - although we know that the theoretical options are that I cannot be chosen because of the threshold and similar things, but it is a procedure. This means that if I am going to run as an independent member, I need 10 times or 15 times less signatures than I do for a municipal councillor. Second point. Some congregations, so small and urban, have so - called independent lists, including individual members of the parties. Yes, for God's sake, are you aware that tomorrow we will get so many political parties in Slovenia, because it is easier to register a political party, collect signatures, make a founding assembly than collect signatures to run for the list at the local level? What, you want this? Yeah, how much? My colleague Pojbiæ will probably be able to tell me how many people we need today or groups of people to organize a client at the local level? We have one such client in Maribor. The voice of women is such a party that is registered but I think the list for the development of Maribor by Križman is also such a political party, which is established, which operates only in the area of the local community. And with this amendment, your honourable colleagues are making it up to people to decide, otherwise, if the provision is in force, to set up political parties who, in my personal opinion, will not be political, but because the system and the law force them to do so, because if they want to run at the local level, they must be registered. Because it will be easier for them to have their own political party than to collect signatures. And I'll tell you something else. I agree that 15 signatures are a small number of people to support one letter. 100 would, in my personal opinion, be a suitable number. In the countryside, believe me, you get 100 signatures first, because everybody knows each other there, and they know it's worth my signature, and it's not. In urban or urban areas, however, the neighbor does not know. Remember, the ones who live in the blocks, who knows the whole tower, and if you know each other well, will you go knock on the door if I give you support for the list? Of course, there is another point here, for example, to the well-respected colleagues of the mayoral elections. Someone resents his political party or the president, who is now an existing mayor, say, in Ljubljana or in Maribor, and forces the mayor to go as an independent candidate. According to the proposal of colleague Pojbič, 5,000 signatures should be collected in Ljubljana. So 5,000 people should be brought to the administrative unit with a ID card and signed. That's what I call disciplining people on a local level in a clean party system. It's a pure party system! For God's sake, however, we leave the creation of lists of politicians to the people who live there. And we're dealing with politics at the state level. But it is true and I admit that normal criteria and criteria must be set, but not in such a way that they go from one extreme to another, as I have just said. It is said that the candidate for the President of the State is to be evaluated evenly by the candidate procedure. For a municipal councillor in the largest city municipality, Ljubljana, either to have five times more signatures collected for one city in the 45-member city council in Maribor than for a candidate for a member of this Parliament. That's how you showed your cards, your mirror, your mind. It is my personal opinion that we must leave the local community's leadership at their discretion. And people who choose their representatives by their will in their city and other saints, and we allow them to make such or other decisions. And in my personal opinion, if this matter is to be adopted today and is to be judged by constitutionality, it does not drink water or hold back. It is precisely because we cannot evaluate and place ourselves in the same position that I once again stress neither the President of the country nor his candidacy nor the members of the National Assembly and could also mention it. I'll get it over with. However, I tell you clearly and loudly, I regret that this amendment of the coalition has long been opposed by the Slovenian People's Party to such a solution, as a colleague from DeSUS said, that is the most possible thing - to reconcile, according to domestically, that I do not say "continue". However, it is lifeless, unsystematic, and if we continue to adopt laws in this way, even as we discussed at the preceding paragraph about the congregation of Celje and Storah, where we know well what a cadastral congregation is because we know what it says. We also have Unior in Maribor, and someone in the TAM area will say, there is Unior, let us now join Zreč and so on, then that is mine, I will be a little bit more disappointed, and I would like to work in this place constructively, substantively, that those who have put us in this National Assembly who have given us the mandate to perform this function in their name, even for them, should we do so properly, but not in such a way that we want to give them party discipline and give them the opportunity at home, you can run if you are members of one of the parties who, at that particular moment, are said at home - the party life that is present in Slovenia. This amendment, however, will cause us to receive at least 20 or 30 political parties in the coming months. Even at the Ministry of the Interior, where there is a register if I am not mistaken of political parties, they will have a lot of work to do. And please tell me nicely how will Mr Virant ensure in administrative units that 5,000 or 7,000 people will come to provide support in such a way as this law provides for, in the city municipality, for example Ljubljana, Celje, Maribor, Murska Sobota, where there are larger centres and you need more support?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. It's just a magnetogram that alerts me that you spoke to Mr. Bajc's microphone. Mr. Rezman, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Over the past few months, we have tried to knock on our minds several times and have appealed to try to think rationally about what such choices will mean to people. I don't even know now whether it's even reasonable to appeal to rational judgment, because it seems that some people are thinking in some paradigms that we can't get out of and then it's in vain. But at the same time, to say that 15 signatures is an unacceptable number and to claim 5 signatures as acceptable, and this is no longer understandable to common sense. But that's what's been heard here today. And now we have an absurd situation. Those who proposed wanted to tighten the conditions for entry into policy for independent candidates. However, they did so so that some would be able to enter with five signatures, so the family would sit down for dinner at night, agree to go to the administrative unit in the morning and be candidates for the municipal elections. This means now that this is due to the irrational distribution of municipalities in our country, because we have such small congregations, we have this number of voters, and 2% of the 250 voters, for example, are one decent Slovenian family. And now we're going to have, like, family councils and family congregations, and I don't know what else. Of course, I am a little exaggerated, but in order to show absurdity, secondly, we demand, not 2,000, 2,000 signatures with an amendment to the maximum extent possible. Now, tell me where the logic is if we take into account what the Constitutional Court has said, but we need to think about what the real threshold for emancipation is. 5 signatures in one congregation are not a real threshold for emancipation. It's a family threshold. 2.500 is also not what we should take into account to say that we are on the real threshold. It's a friend of that kind of absurdity. The third thing I'd like to say is that you know why it's pushing. It is forcing someone to be expelled from the municipal councils, including because those who are independent, whether mayors or saints or saints, do not receive funds for their work with regard to the votes we received in the elections, and then this money will be available to someone else, a customer. They can't get hold of him now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr. Janc!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much, distinguished president, secretary, colleague and colleague! I have to say, with a little too easy, we're restricting things here in this house of democracy, so let's say it's the stories she has yesterday, and today, it'll probably be Monday. I think that this electoral right of citizens and citizens must be accessible to everyone under certain conditions, normally. We put these conditions here, in this House. We talked about 4%. In my profound belief, it is unacceptable to prevent those who do not fit this or that political option from running for such and other responsible places in municipal councils, mayors and so on. And this is, as a rule, in Slovenian municipalities, especially large ones, these cases are very large. According to my experience, such candidates work very successfully in municipal councils, if the world is right that the mayor also accepts this, it is not a problem, nor in coalitions, locals, not such and different ones. And that's what I'm going to say, because people still have a very hard time joining this or that party because they get some kind of stamp up and then you quit. After all, you can't erase the stamp anymore. Once you run on one, any list, whether it's SLS or SD or any other. And that's why we'd rather go like this because they're undefined. They get the support they can get, much easier, so far. It is true, however, that it is in the interest of one local environment, one congregation, the most written structure of saints with such and different views, such and different experiences, especially economic and similar. As a rule, economists don't like to be tied to a political party. But these are usually too few in these municipal councils. I think we would need them in some way in order to be able to work even more productively, developmentally and productively in the interest of the congregation, the interest of the economy, development, etc. While I am glad that of those stupid 4% came to this 2%, that this is still slightly more enjoyable, more acceptable and that yet these 2% of these negotiations, which have been going on for quite some time in the coalition, are probably for many Slovene municipalities - I speak those normal, smaller - to something even acceptable. However, it is likely that what Kangler used to say is for municipalities such as Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje and others, and believe me, I say from experience that it is almost impossible for the Ljubljana mayor to be an independent candidate. Collect 2,500 signatures on the administrative unit believe it's not a simple job. Get in the pub's signature, that's what's going on. There's a little bit more to the administration. It's a bit of an obstacle. You need to get there, etc. And with this we simply want to bind candidates here so that no major Slovenian mayor can be independent. If that's what we want, then that's it. However, if he also wants to have any mayor independent in the major Slovenian municipalities, then this is not it. We have to pour ourselves some clean wine here today. I think maybe someone will say, that's right, that every Slovenian mayor of the larger municipality fits into such a different political option. Maybe that's the way it is. I don't know. This is a matter of judgment, and today we are discussing this, today we are deciding on the amendment, which the Slovenian People's Party is supporting in principle with a lump in its throat. However, it seems to me that this is one compromise that we may have negotiated somehow, even though it believes that this 2% will not change in all of these local communities, will not be the best. That is why I would say that this constitutionality, which we sometimes just despise, is what we say because it is true because Parliament is adopted, but the accessibility of all this right must always be borne in mind. I think that this is the foundation of our house that we are in, that we are discussing, and that we must bear in mind. It is not that we sometimes cross the legal and legislative service at the previous point, all of which are or are looking forward, because this will be voted Not right. [[...]] This is not right, and this is not the way to discuss and make decisions that I think do not benefit the municipalities, but even less in the previous case of two neighbours who should be compatible, cooperate, seek solutions, not fight each other and resolve matters through Parliament. No, we're gonna cause new problems. We're gonna cause new problems. I'm going back. I think maybe today it even suits someone to make it what it's supposed to be. Maybe three years from now, the story turns around, and this thing won't be drinking water, and then there's another change. Let's keep looking at things around here a little bit. Simply stated, do we really want to have all the officials involved in political parties operating on this stage - I am sure not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I was already at a meeting this morning where fear was discussed. This is why it is also a kind of fear, a fear of people, that they also have the opportunity to make lists, when they also choose who they should vote for that one day, and they also participate. And secondly, it's ignorance. And this combination of fear and ignorance, ignorance of the situation in the Slovenian political space, has led to this unacceptable and incorrect proposal, which we have today covered in this amendment. Let me draw attention to the three absurdities that appear through this amendment. I'll start with that. If this criterion were to apply to political parties, the number of municipalities in Slovenia is rare, where customers could place their candidate lists. What do I mean by that? In Ljubljana, where there are 2,500 signatures for the councillor's candidacy, you do not have a party that has 2,500 members. There is no political party in Ljubljana. But by their rules of the game, including customers with 5 members in Ljubljana, they appoint a saint who can run for election. I am not talking about 200 and more municipalities in Slovenia where I will not know I will invent a small municipality where customers who say they have many members have 3 or 5 members. But according to the internal rules, the parties can choose. I do not ask myself, and I have repeatedly doubted the credibility of these minutes, as set out in these Conventions, where the final members are appointed. So I think that this is completely an unfair and unacceptable relationship between political parties, the rules by which they can set their candidates and between independent lists. It is simply a fear of these independent lists, which, of course, are the controller of this same political party oligarchy in individual municipalities. That's one thing. Another point I would like to draw attention to is the logical continuation of the debate we had yesterday about the congregations. To make as few congregations as possible, to make and plead for as few letters as possible or candidates. What does that mean? Reinforcement of partitocracy, strengthening of the political oligarchy in individual environments. Make three, five, ten people who will decide everything! And of course, you can do this in a small congregation, in a small environment where you don’t give others a chance. In short, I would suggest that this amendment be simply answered or voted against - even those you have proposed - because it is absurd because it is unacceptable and unfair in general to the electoral system. I wouldn't be surprised if it was those who are passionate about the proportional system, but you who are proposing a majority electoral system and defending it and now expel people from participating in it and strengthening the participatory system. Once again, imagine, and once again, it's a combination of fear and it's ignorance, which is the product of such an amendment that we have before us today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Juban has the word. Get Mrs. Pechanova ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What I'm listening to yesterday and today, I can't believe it can happen. This first part, which is before us, if I exclude Mr Kumro, should not happen in this room, but somewhere in a meeting room where the coalition would agree on what it wants. Here we have before us the signature of the four parliamentary groups that have supported this amendment and are almost not supported by the signatories themselves, the signatories to the law. Then who else is behind it? It means it's one stupid thing he can't handle. And we are only discussing this amendment, which is not a good one, a review of the amendment, I think that you have put the amendment to Article 1, and we have another amendment, which would also show a few things. An amendment that severely reduces or puts these criteria into one acceptable framework. I agree with those who say anyone can't run anyway. Some criteria must be because we see the flood of some of the candidates in the world when they have no idea how many political parties that this is nothing like. But it's too hard to think about if we have to accept anything today, which may even happen, to think about those who are also opposed by the First Amendment coalition, to think about the other, which I think is, if it's not good, but it's much better than the first one. And I'm not going to say it again, or I'm going to break down a little bit of what Mr. Kumer said. Interestingly, years ago we had a referendum on the majority electoral system, which went public in the way that political parties were lying evil. This story has still appeared, sold, and would need some honest independent people in the country to lead this democracy on a new path. And it was only there that we had to elect people who were not involved in politics, poisoned, and that we loved exactly John Hribar and not a representative of the political party. Of course, it was written on the same board that promoted collecting signatures, whether you were in favour of recalling an MP. And also some colleagues who are not present today, but who are in this assembly, said, "It helped us to get the first one." In fact, they linked the Member's resignation with the majority electoral system, and people gave their vote. It's been reinstated as a vote for the majority electoral system. We got the result that was, we know what it was. Of course, he was later manipulated in many ways. And the rush from extremes to extremes, once we interpret that political parties are the bed of evil and that we need as many independent people as possible, we have a matter on the table, and vice versa from the same circles. It means that, just like we do, we try to direct people, the main thing is that they're ours. On this path, you probably should not consider one rational solution to support another solution, if we support any and that we have a more moderate form of candidate-gathering for the next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you! Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Steba.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President! The amendment, which introduces a slightly lower number of candidates for candidate lists in the electoral units, does not, in particular, support me because I still think the maximum number of 2,500 pieces is still too high. In addition, the question is whether, for example, in smaller electoral areas, for example, I will say where, for example, an electoral unit of 10,000 voters is large, whether 200 signatures can be compared to the number of party members who have run for municipal council in the same electoral unit. Let's ask ourselves, which party has a larger number of members in the individual electoral unit that run for election to the municipal council than the number of signatures required for the composition of the election list in the municipal council after this amendment? I don't think she's such a customer. I don't think I'm exaggerating either, because I also consider our SD client with it. That no one would think that we are any exception is the same. The second thing I would like to say is, according to my own experience and the experience of colleagues who, like the mayors, participate or have opponents on such lists who have been elected by their saints in the municipal councils of some municipalities, that most of the saints and saints are elected on such lists, most of the saints and saints. This could theoretically be said to be a majority non-political, non-partisan, but we cannot say non-political, because every decision in the municipal world, however, is political but not party to any discussion when such neutral lists are in the municipal world. We have two such lists, and therefore I must say that there is nothing worse to do in the municipal world. On the contrary, a lot of people are completely non-party and non-political ideas get through their mouths and mainly through their minds, thinking about these people, completely different connotation than any other. Many of the reasons why even party intolerance occurs between saints and saints who have been elected on client lists. And here I think that there is actually some phobia before - although I think - that not so much before the real ones will I say civil letters, civil papers, but rather before perhaps some foreign branches, "by pass-i" customers who, because as customers cannot get elected saints, create some of the appearance of a non-political, non-partisan list and then run with them in elections to the municipal world. The colour of these representatives is right or left, but, of course, outside the name do not belong here, not there. And then after the election, if success is great enough, coalitions of parties and non-party papers arise. But I think it's life that we have to get used to everyone's just looking for new ways. Above all, at the level of local self-government, we cannot expect people to think partyally at the level of the municipalities. In the municipality, the problem, particularly in small and medium-sized municipalities, is specific for each environment. Before we talk around, I'm gonna say, "land to steal," in a way you might call it, "I don't know if you who are younger than me have ever played steal, but it reminds me of a little bit of stealing on the ground." And here it is not a matter of political interests, here it is purely no matter which party is in power in one congregation or another. It is a matter of extreme municipal interest, of interest represented by the mayor and represented by the mayor and both municipal councils, and then of course seek protection or support in the national council, such as the political, party-closest. In reality, however, there are 10, 20, 30 thousand people whose interests are taken by each mayor and municipal council. Therefore, in congregational councils it is difficult to talk about true party distribution. We have very diverse coalitions in Slovenia. In some municipalities, a right hand with a left hand or just a middle hand or in a third non-stranger’s sheet, along with a sidekick or a right or a left. People connect with each other. In fact, people who are known by citizens who know how they think about the congregation are elected at the congregation level. I believe that it is pointless and, above all, very unfair for those voters who would like someone to run for municipal councilor or for a group to run for municipal councillors and councillors, without political party identification. I think it's actually unfair, not only to the candidate who doesn't want to run on a client list, but also to the voters themselves who want to have such candidates at their disposal. Why do such lists work so well in elections? Not because they only had 15 signatures instead of a sub-list. No, but because these 15 signatures have 150, 300, 1,000 or 5,000 electoral beneficiaries to support in the elections. So to collect 200 signatures in one municipality, which has 10,000 voters or in Ljubljana 5 thousand 200 signatures, 2% or 2 000 500 signatures for elections, for candidacy in the municipal world, I think it is far too much. I think it would be wise if, after all, we could consult and consider whether this is a better way than, say, the one that is the next amendment that proposes the maximum number of thousand signatures for such large constituencies as, of course, Ljubljana or Maribor or Koreska. There's something similar about Cyprus. There's over 34,000 voters there, it's said that we should gather 34,000 voters, which is two percent, I can't calculate, okay, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Steba has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry of Programmes and Local Policy! First, it may be a bit of an introductory thought in a similar way to that of a colleague of Pecan's. Why are we so afraid of client policy or client thinking? Why do we want to do it again somehow, or do we want to do it or are we thinking about the former socialist relationship of the working people when we're supposed to do it within one group? There are values behind the parties, behind the serious customers, there are values that these parties advocate. In my municipal council, when there is a debate or decision on something where there are significant values behind it, the parties are profiled to the left and right. In most cases, there is party thinking in terms of what values a person advocates. And I think that, as such, the parties with their members, registered members and their programmes, which they have been implementing over the long term, when the results of the elections come and when they begin to rule, are one on the part of the responsible government and one on the part of the opposition. In society, we have a very important group of NGOs in addition to our clients, political parties. In most valid democracies, non-governmental organisations have often been out of a good voice when they think positively about parties more or less positive thinking in - say - Western countries. However, they are very rarely well-spoken with us, and they are even media coverage. The importance of NGOs is extremely important there. Non-governmental organisations usually do not enter into the ruling process or the decision-making process in either parliaments or municipal councils. With us, however, there is a general opinion supported by media propaganda that the parties have been lying down evil. This continues from the somehow accepted thinking of most of the elderly, when they also spoke in party times, but let’s leave it at that. I think that the dilemma in determining the number of support for the possibility of a councilor or a list for the municipal council or the mayor is how to ensure, on the one hand, that non-democracy can somehow guarantee the seriousness of the candidacy and how to prevent speculation or perhaps even anarchy. Although I do not think we can say this in Slovenia. There are certainly speculations, however, when some deliberately organise non-participating lists and, of course, through a previous agreement, which the political party or option will support when they succeed in the elections. However, non-stranger lists are extremely popular among voters because the customers themselves are in bad voice and then you have a list for clean water, for tourism development, for support to entrepreneurship, and I don't know what kind of list. We have a list for young people, young people to replace, etc., but the lists at the end are not even legal persons, and for this reason they do not belong to the funds obtained from the votes they received, as they should by all democratic rules belong to them. [[...]] If we believe that these non-participating lists are also an important article, they have an important democratic role and should actually belong to them. It's my logic that we should do it. Although the issue has nothing to do with the electoral system, let us now look at these percentages. Even the LDS proposes a substantial increase in the number of votes needed for four or more times, which is said to have been pointless. Even with 250 voters in one municipality of Osilnica or - I don't know - where they have a total of 300 or 500 people, it will be necessary to collect 5 signatures, but those 250 voters will probably know each other very well and will have to collect these 5 signatures in some way. Although I personally do not think that anything would be wrong if the floor below was 15 votes and then this percentage goes on. I support that percentage. I think he's even more fair than the last split, when 30,000 voters needed only three times more signatures. According to the current proposals, six times more should be gathered, and only five times more signatures had to be collected in the number of voters than in one congregation with 5,000 voters. Now they need to be collected, or 20 times more, according to the proposal. So that I think that the basic criterion may be mathematical how to determine a percentage, it would be that, in advance, you know exactly how many votes you need for a single term, for a given term. And a few percent of those votes might be a criterion for the seriousness of the candidacy. In this proposal of ours, I have converted this into our situation - this is when you collect the number of support for a list of 2%, about one third of the votes you need to come to the municipal council at all. Now, whether it is large or small or it is impeding democracy, the seriousness of the candidacy and so forth, is a matter of assessing each one individually. So that I think that this 2% for those who are serious will not run so restrictively, because in fact, they will already, in the previous process, gather somehow a third of the votes of support they need to get the required number of votes to join the municipal council for one term. So I will support the proposal for 2%, and I will not support the other amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova, the replica? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u56	Very briefly. Mr Štebe, I think you are obsessed with thinking about the past, about socialism, about the delegation system and so on. So that I think that in today's full 15 years after the change of the political system, you can't talk about us who are from the Social Democrats or from the Liberal Democracy as if we're still thinking about the socialist relationship between the working people or the communists as the most ideal solution for the electoral system. So please be sober and think about it in the 21st century and think about 2005 and not 1975 or 1985. The second thing I would say is that I know that you are a very good mathematician, but I would like to remind you that if there are voters because it makes it easier for me to count - 10,000 and if there are 20 saints in the congregation, then that means 500 votes. But at no election in any municipality, except where it's a majority system, where only 7 saints are involved - we don't know how many votes anyone needs to be elected - but where the proportional system is, you never get anything from the electorate to more than 65% of the electorate. So it's not true that he needs a saint to be elected, or a list to be elected, 500 votes, but he needs 65% of what it means to be 325. And further, this means that if in a municipality with 10,000 registered voters and an independent list needs 2% of signatures, it takes 200 votes and 325 votes to be elected. And that's a fact, it's not because I made it up or because you always have to count on 10,000 voters. Let's take a look at the abstinence in the election. This abstinence is often the fault of us who are in the political parties - us, I say, because we are all in the political parties that we are here in this national assembly, because as an independent candidate you cannot practically come to the national assembly. And not only because there are so many signatures to be obtained, but also because the system is against independent candidates being able to run for office. That's why I think we should be right. According to this logic, there should then be around 100 signatures in such a case as I have said, which would approximately correspond to the number of members in the individual party in such a large electoral unit. This is a relationship, and let's think in a rational way. Therefore, the proposal in the LDS amendment is better than this. But when we talk about direct majority elections in the municipal councils, I think it's at least fair that it's 15 minimum, you know, at least decent. Because the fact is there's really little voter turnout in 300.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Pechanova. It was a debate. It wasn't a replica. Mr. Peche. There's no replica on the replica, Mr. Stebe; you can talk later, I'll put you on the list of applicants. Mr. Pece, please. Get ready, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u58	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I believe my colleague Kangler won't mind if I use his sentence as my starting point. Otherwise, I would also like to show the second dimension of the praise that he shows, so negative. Look, it was said, after the adoption of the law, of course, possible adoption of the law, there will be 20 to 30 new political parties within 30 days. That's probably true. But if there are 20 to 30 new political parties, then the voters and voters will at least know in a transparent way who they give their vote to. It will not appear what is happening today, whether in the municipalities or other municipalities, increasingly and increasingly, and I believe that it will appear in the local elections next year so much more - that political parties will start using the institute of so-called independent papers, will put their people on these lists and will later make up so-called coalitions through these papers. That is what we have today in all the city’s congregations. This is unfair to the electorate and the electorate. But only one of the Members has spoken about this dimension, I think, so far. And if I've borrowed the thought of Comrade Kangler for a start, allow me to use his name to compare it. I know he won't mind, because it's just a comparison and probably not even close to the truth. This is as if we had a list in Maribor for Mr. Franz Kangler. This is a political party, and after this, it must also comply with the conditions laid down in the proposed amendment. In my opinion, it makes sense, given the transparent way, to show who the list represents, then there should be restrictions. The restrictions are not just one way, in that direction, to limit people's right to vote. Then let that be the other side, the plus that's called transparency. Let people know who, if, of course, I gave a mere comparison earlier, is behind individual leaves. And I believe that all of us who have made a few local elections through this trend are seeing this trend when a political party then with different lists or through different lists takes part in local elections. Names are usually very resonant. In the opening part of the debate, I even said that we support the proposal of the bill in that direction because it makes it impossible for exotic leaves. And just with the exotic leaves it was meant to be, and once again, I'm going to borrow the name of my friend Frank Kangler, just in case we disable lists like the non-party support sheet of Frank Kangler. Just in case, I know my colleague Kangler will forgive me, and it's not meant to really believe that something like this could happen in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Rokavec has the floor to prepare Mr Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I came forward because of the debate that has been held today and which has gone this way, that the proposed law on local elections is such a terrible thing. The comparative analysis that we have done in our service can show that both amendments or the complementary proposal and the LDS amendment are almost comparable in almost all segments of each other according to the number of signatures needed. A new city of 2%, of the majority of voters, requires 650 signatures under the proposal of LDS 800, Kranj 2%, 855 according to the proposal of LDS 800. They're at 2% 476, according to the LDS 500 proposal. Bohinj 2% 86, proposed by LDS 60. And so on. The only problem appears in two cases, namely Maribor City Municipality, where this relationship is significantly more obvious because 2% require 1,921 signatures, according to the proposal of the LDS 900, and Ljubljana, where the proposal is 2,500, or according to the proposal of the LDS 1,000. Probably even more so than Ljubljana, in this proposal, because it has more than once fewer inhabitants than Ljubljana, and only the upper limit of 2,000 for Ljubljana, but not for Maribor, in this particular case, comes into effect. If we look at the comparative picture of how many independent municipal councilors Slovenia has, we can see that this is the most powerful political group, not a political party, in municipal councils. Most municipal councillors are independent, the largest number, almost the largest number of mayors is independent. And now for the other thing. It's not the same independent letter and political party. The independent list is that Franček, Jožek etc., get and deal, we'll get these 15 signatures and go with this current program. Tomorrow, there may be no more of this team in the municipal world, just an individual, four years from now, you can also say that it is the same with a political party, but a political party is performing a clear programme. Not only in some cases at local level, but mostly comparatively at national level. And now it's the notion of independence. I find this notion of independence in the worldview case very difficult to believe. Worldwide, more or less, all people in a given segment have been identified. In some ways, independent lists also involve cases of honesty, in the case of the development of local self-government in certain cases to conceal certain interests, including political parties, where political parties themselves have pushed for the establishment of independent papers also because of their interests and also for the purely partial interests of certain individuals. So do I. And I could count it. That is why I believe that, probably comparatively with other countries of the European Union, we can only be that what we have now, with regard to the local elections system, is probably not very proud of us. Above all, the congregational councils and city councils suffer the most, where a host of these independent leaves are also elected to this congregation council. Not everywhere. It is a very important human factor, from the mayor, etc., how to establish a relationship with these leaves, but it is much harder to conclude coalitions if there are ten or more of these papers or those partners to negotiate one coalition and each individual issue. And even after the amendments tabled, I believe that there has been a realization that there is a need to take a step forward. Perhaps it would make sense to reexamine or to find another solution for these two extremes. I'd say the extreme of Maribor is more like Ljubljana. However, I believe that this warning in view of limiting the possibility of candidateing, given the possibility of obtaining a mandate, has been eliminated by these amendments, one or the other. It would be dangerous if we stayed 3%. In this case, it would probably be a question of whether it would be necessary for a certain municipal councilor or also for the mayor to have more signatures than, or on the one hand, for, or a candidate for the President of the Republic and, on the other hand, more signatures than would be necessary to obtain a mandate. Thus, this danger has been removed and, on the other hand, we have a third reading of this law. So perhaps one thought of what else to do in these two dilemmas may not be too much. However, I believe that the solution is going in the right direction and that it is necessary to supplement the law in this work, as it is, of course, seductive at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Gantar has the floor to prepare Mr Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Like Ambassador Kumer, I am somehow connecting yesterday's and today's debate on local self-government, and I cannot help but feel that all of these proposals, which come from the same species, have a great deal of anti-urban orientation, someone, I might say, will not say, but, in saying, some kind of "roar against cities", against larger units and an attempt to actually affirm what is small, which is supposed to be affected, neglected and so on. A broader topic for discussion, I agree. Otherwise, in principle, I support or agree with what France Kangler has said. It is important to say that policy at local levels is designed and structured differently than at national level to even talk about local political systems, unlike national political systems, that they are organised differently. This system is different with us, too. As a result, traditional political design, as it goes at national level, varies considerably at local level. As we say, political coalitions at national level are one thing, and at local levels they are different. Here we are some opponents, while at local levels this can be quite the other way around. Therefore, this equation of local and national at this level, when we are talking about local elections, is out of the question. I would also oppose what has been shown repeatedly, namely to oppose these letters and to talk about how this destroys party and political democracy at local levels. It is important to be aware of this and I do not agree with Mr Štebet, who says that resistance to customers is a reflection of an old socialist system of self-government. No, no, no. We have long since and, of course, been a reflection, i.e. the criticism of party policy, but it is a reality and we have to ask ourselves why they are criticising today's client policies, Mr Štebe. Above all, I would say this, new movements, party and non-party policy, emerged in cities in the 1980s, with so-called new urban movements, which have dealt with the problems of cities and local units in a different way from those of traditional and current political parties. This was the response to the institutional urban policy crisis. And in this sense, this was innovation for cities and an important development factor in cities. Therefore, we must ask ourselves, not how to prevent these leaves from entering, but why these leaves are increasingly, at least some, very disquieting, I agree with why these leaves are more attractive and why they are elected, and why say such a list of governments in Cyprus. Why is there a lot of government around here? And that's why they've refreshed this customer policy here, and they're mainly a lesson and a warning to customers to do something different and better, but not just to follow the way the national level is organised. Therefore, I certainly believe that we must leave the door open to the leaves so that in fact all those leaves that have some motive that can mobilise a certain number of people can also come into the normal candidate process. Not like customers, but like what they want to be. Because that's what "what" is, they don't want to be customers. And they want to set things up and take things differently. It seems to me that the SDS amendment is biased to favour, you might say, entry into these small local communities and to block in large. That is why I believe that this LDS amendment is approximately rational. You could talk a little bit about numbers up or down, but I think he's presented some good graduation that allows such lists and groups to have a minimum of logic and minimal potential that they can also take part in the elections. That is why I think it would suggest that we support this amendment and at the same time stop accusing these lists, initiatives, groups, what the parties themselves cannot do or are not capable of doing with their people, with their policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's not enough time. I would point out only two things: that this problem is significantly different in smaller municipalities than it is at the level of large and urban municipalities. It is, however, that the ruling policy today seems to think that it is sitting right next to it or even better, a little above God. Clearly, we are coming at a time when membership in the political party will be mandatory again. That's what happened in this country once, but it didn't work out so well. It's obviously about the hateful takeover of the electoral body by politics, which I don't think is good for this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Hwauc has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. My opinion, as far as independent papers are concerned, is that these independent leaves bring some width, some different views of quality. It may also be that those who do not want to be involved do not want to be party members who have reservations to do so. This increases the number of people who are trying to contribute to the welfare of a local community. From this point of view, I actually see independent leaves as positive. However, these independent leaves also have some negative sides. It often happens that they are created because of some really narrow interest, because of one, one problem, and above all in larger environments they do not view the interests of the whole community. The second thing is, from this point of view, their responsibility may appear to be more short-term. They appear in one election, they may or may not be in the next election, and from this point of view they are also losing a game against the client lists. And the third thing that I think is that many times you don't know who's behind these lists, or maybe some political party, maybe some lobby, some interest group that wants to do some of its projects or plans through influence in such independent lists. In the case of the parties, it is known that the list is covered by a party which has its name registered, which has been established by a procedure which has its own rules, which also has regulated financial operations, in accordance with the laws or regulations applicable in the Republic of Slovenia. When I discuss this amendment or this amendment, I will have in mind both the medals, it is said, both the positive and the negative sides of these non-participating papers. We've heard that these changes are designed to prevent non-participating papers, to exacerbate conditions, because someone is trying to push them out of public life, to prevent them from operating. It might look that way, but let's see what an absurd situation we have today. With 15 signatures, the non-party list, an independent list can take place in a municipality of 500 people, or in a municipality of 200 and more thousand people. This is some apparent imbalance, some apparent discrepancy between the number of voters that this list will address and the number of votes needed to signify this support. With the changes ahead, we're trying to make a difference. To eliminate this imbalance is, of course, easier to say than to do. We have tried or are with several possible variants, with different percentages, with scales. But each treatment has shown that one or the other system has some shortcomings. The scales are problematic because at the transition from one to the other class there is actually some kind of leap, and close to that limit these different communities have very different conditions. He needs, I don't know, 1%, but if you have, I don't know, two residents or a voter anymore, you need 2%. So it turns out that these scales aren't ideal. Secondly, we have tried with percentages, which is somehow logical, where there are more voters, you need more support for the candidacy. In fact, this poses a problem mainly for these major municipalities, where we run into a relatively large number of voters needed for support or signatures for support. This was attempted with this limitation, the upper limit of 2500. I think this is one important step forward. Personally, I am not entirely confident that this limit is 2500 ideal, but one limit is at the moment. Since we used to revolve around an electoral unit, at least twice, which has 10,000 voters, I'd say another one of my calculations here. This constituency has, I'm talking about, to make it easier to count, a municipal council with 20 saints. According to our proposal, 200 signatures must be collected to support such a list. If the list is serious, I'm sure she'll propose the full number of candidates that are possible, that's 20. It follows that each candidate on this list collects 10 signatures and the common list collects enough. And 10 signatures for one candidate is a trifle. These are two families, one plus one. That way, I don't see any problems here, as far as the limitations of independent sheets are concerned. Those who can't collect so many signatures, I don't think they can just perform in a serious election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, too, believe that it has been an opportunity for non-political organisations to participate in local governance with a well-thought-out and well-intentioned option, but experience shows that this solution has been misused too often. This abuse is present, I believe that in most municipalities, but I can say, for example, the municipality of Novo Mesto, where we have four lists called independent, and in one we have a member of the Vice-President of the LDS, in the other also a member of the LDS and in the other two are former members of various political parties. In other words, I can say that this way our voters have actually been deceived. The lists are usually elected by voters who do not have confidence in political parties and decide to elect a list in good faith that this list will work in their interest. I spoke to one of the list holders when he accompanied this proposal, which we are considering today, and he also confirmed to me that this solution is a good one. Why? In fact, we have 33 saints on the list in New Town, meaning that this list contains 33 members, with some good work we can guarantee that by collecting the signatures we will come safely to the municipal council. It means, as colleague Hvauc said, if any member tries hard, and anyone has a serious purpose, he will certainly make an electoral campaign, and he will surely come to the congregation council. However, it might be possible to consider just one more thing, but here we could prevent abuse by the former political parties or even by members, in order to make provision for the composition of these lists so that they cannot be or should not be a member of any political party. I believe that this would also reduce the number of these leaves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Rezman. Get ready, Mr. Steba.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you. It was said that the independent also had values and attitudes. Of course we do, we are independent of customers, not of attitudes and values. And we are not independent parties, as someone has mentioned, we have no statutes, we do not have membership, we do not have memberships, we are not registered in the register of political parties, and so on and so on, and we are not a society, Mr Rokavec, we are independent.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe. Let's get Mr. Pojbich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to replicate earlier, I don't think Mrs Pečanova was named and was unjustifiably given the opportunity of replica. I didn't mention Social Democracy or anyone explicitly, I just said that thinking in some people is still going on and I haven't named anyone by name or anything else. But if it was so understandable to apologize, I had no intention of doing so. Maybe I'd like to add that. True, we are talking about independent lists, I find it hard to believe that anyone is independent, but otherwise depends on himself and his thinking. But it's hard to say that these leaves are undecided. Our undeclared list in our municipal world is so consistent that it does not want to enter into any kind of agreement or coalition relationship, because they actually think they are independent, but of course they are prepared for any coordination and negotiation in terms of projects and decisions, in terms of making decisions easier later on in the municipal world. Perhaps I would also mention that this percentage of 2% for the opportunity to run for mayors and also for lists for the municipal council somehow ensures proportionality and cannot be disputed. What Mr Rokavec analysed was very interesting. Even convinced me that the percentage was fairer and more proportionate. Ljubljana, with so many inhabitants, and if we are also talking about these independent lists, it should not be a real problem to gather voter support for the seriousness of the candidature. I don't think it's an operational problem for the country or for the administrative units to gather to register all these things. After all, this could also be automated by electronic signatures and broadcast through the Internet. I would also like to mention that, to the extent that I have had contacts with political representatives in Austria, Germany, France, England, in particular, the Austrians can hardly imagine how in Slovenia so often the so-called independent leaves can succeed. In their independent lists, I am also speaking in the local elections, and they have no chance of success. And probably the very essence of what I have already said is that, for the first time, the role of NGOs is different and that political parties also have different perceptions in the media and in the public. It is true, however, and it must also be acknowledged that often, especially in small municipalities or in municipalities in Slovenia, when these leaves are not somehow speculative, as mentioned in these debates, but are in fact some civilisational groups that want to change their priorities or decisions in their local environment, have a positive call and often work positively. I think, however, that some restriction, some threshold for the seriousness of the candidacy, is reasonable and I will continue to support this 2% threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u74	Your Honor! I support the amendment tabled by the coalition parties, and I would also like to say in the introduction that I will not dispute with my fellow Members, who were my forerunners. In particular, I must point out that, with this amendment to the Local Elections Act, we are not restricting to anyone the possibility of running at local elections and that political parties, at least the Slovenian Democratic Party, have no fear of non-participating lists and their candidacy in local elections. With this bill, we want to regulate this area in a way that is acceptable to all who want to run, but with a little more responsibility and seriousness. The main reason for introducing the law as a proposaler is seen in the inadequate regulation of this area in the law in force. We can see from practice that the procedure for submitting the nomination by the electorate is extremely simplified, as only a few signatures of the electorate are sufficient. Such arrangements bring along a series of problems in the functioning of municipal councils. Because of the large number of elected municipal councillors from non-party lists, there is political fragmentation of the municipal world, which also results in the inability to make decisions. The current law does not take into account differences in the size of municipalities, since the number of 15 constituencies is the same as in Osilnica, for example, in small municipalities as well as in the Municipality of Ljubljana and Maribor. As a proposaler, I believe that the proposed amendments to the law are in the direction of better regulation of this issue, taking into account the principle of equality before the law and the generality of electoral law. The bill also takes into account the diversity of municipalities in terms of the number of inhabitants or voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Puksich. Get ready, Mr. Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The bill on the table had 4%, which was very large. And it was important to warn both governments and the secretariat of legislation that there was a need to respect and respect the general and equal opportunities for electoral rights. That's one. And if, to this and to the debate we had on the working body, what I proposed was somehow tied to the election of the president of the country, that is, if 5,000 signatures were to be collected for the president of the country with a two-billion-dollar body, then 500 signatures would be needed for the largest congregation in 200,000. There were a lot of these proposals on the working body. It also seems important to me that the proposal was made by a fellow Member of Trofenik from 15 to 4,000 voters. Later we tried to find some compromise between 4%, which was actually too much and somehow we withdrew from this concept very quickly. Among those on the working body, between 500 and 4,000 came this proposal, which limits the ceiling by 2% and a maximum of 2,500. Maybe the number might be a little high, given my own proposal and my personal thinking. But it is true that talking about independent leaves is somehow a viable matter. These were separate lists that somehow spoke to someone, arranged, and compiled such a list. That such leaves were many and too many, we were also warned by voters and voters. Many times someone told me, yes, and why leave so much? Yes, we make no decisions and leave nothing, but the legal conditions are such as to establish and work these papers. Now there is a little more order or there will be a little more order with this amendment, although I still have a personal thought about the upper limit, but because a better proposal than this is not, I will also support the amendment of the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u78	Your Honor, once again a good-bye! After a very gruesome and sharp initial debate at this point of the agenda, it seems to me that the debate was then normalised. Personally, I think it is necessary for local elections to also be normalised. I have to say personally that I have nothing against independent lists, but what happened in the last elections is not normal anymore. In fact, today we talked a lot about the data that came after the elections, and we found out how many independent saints, independent mayors, in themselves, I say, there is nothing wrong with it. On the other hand, we have not looked at how many candidates have been put forward and what problems the municipal electoral commissions have had. I have to say that I myself worked ten, fifteen years before I went to run for office, in the election commissions, when we just didn't know how to squeeze the voicemail, the A3 format of the voicemail didn't go to the A3 format that there was a variety of exoticisms here, as it was here today and so on. I think that with the proposal of this law we want to prevent abuse, which has already been mentioned several times. Here I see two kinds of abuse that often occur. The first type of abuse is the abuse of political parties. When a political party tries to "play" with an independent list, I say to play, electives and voters and thus gain as many saints as possible with an independent list. However, I see another abuse with independent leaves in a purely narrow private personal interest, when running purely out of this personal narrow interest, irrespective of the benefit of the local community as a whole, but only of its narrow interest. I am pleased that Mr Rokavec has already said what I was thinking is this comparison between the amendment of coalition parties and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, that they are essentially identical, that the data show that the amendment of the Liberal Democracy is even sharper, except for the two largest cities, called Ljubljana and Maribor. As far as this ceiling is concerned, I too must say that the question is whether it is appropriate or not. But here I see this difference, which is actually occurring between the smaller and larger municipalities and also the presence of these leaves. I think that by adopting these coalition amendments we will certainly make the law now in force inappropriately better, and this law will prove to be a good law in the local elections and that the local communities will also work well on the basis of such elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Root. I don't have any more applications. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 1 and the amendments to Article 1. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Interesting debates. Perhaps I will repeat what I said earlier that interestingly, those who advocate the majority electoral system oppose independent lists. Those who have collected signatures for the majority voter's symphony sometimes and still have it in mind today are opposed to independent lists. And that there is something wrong at the local level if there are independent lists, because the local level is something other than a national assembly and at the local level, except maybe really urban municipalities are dealing with matters of only local importance, where it really is not necessary for representatives to be [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u81	Mr. Juban, we haven't even noticed that you're deep down on time and I'd like you to finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your warning. But I think I'm done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Because I don't have much time. I'll be very short. But I want to say the situation we had in our environment. In recent elections, independent parties successfully placed themselves in political space, but the result was that they received four mandates or three mandates and that their representatives attended a meeting of the municipal council for perhaps three quarters of a year, for the rest of the time there was no benefit, they did not go to the municipal council, they did not participate. Of course, they took the city to those who were interested and still cooperate and actively assist in the local community today. And I want these abuses no longer to occur and to have serious congregation councillors who will cooperate and work all the time in the congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you. One of the SNS and NSI and the government wants to discuss this article. [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 2 and on the amendments tabled in Article 2. The first was submitted by the LDS Group and the second by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS Group. Does anyone of these appointed ones want to discuss, for the rest of them are running out of time? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, or at the latest at 17.55 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to go to 6. On the other hand, a proposal for a wine law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. There is no Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Janko Weber. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposal for a wine law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and will therefore be supported. We agree with the proposaler's conclusion that the need for the preparation and adoption of a new wine law was created both by changes in European Union legislation and by changes in the situation of wine processing and marketing. It was influenced by the Single European Market and the opening up of the market to third countries. The fact is that our processing of grapes and wines is faced with large global surpluses of wine in terms of consumption, as it is in stock of more than 30 million litres. This surplus of wine needs to be reduced in the future, which is at the expense of higher quality. In particular, due to the competitiveness of the pressures on our producers in the DeSUS Group, it is extremely important that wine production and marketing focus on reducing processing costs and on the highest possible quality, seeking market niches and effective marketing, both on the Slovenian market and in particular on exports to the European Union and third countries. Therefore, it seems important to us to open up new options for access to the market mainly in terms of introducing a Romance type of protection and the beginning of the origin of wine. The Romance type of wine, of origin, is more effective because producers are more involved in the process of designing and preserving the protection of geographical origin, as well as because the nature of wine with a particular designation is more precisely determined and thus easier to communicate with the consumer. We also assess the need to introduce traditional terms that are more understandable to non-Slovenian-speaking consumers. Given the small size of our country, we believe that, while the importance of pooling wine-growing environments from the previous 14 to 8, this has a bearing on reducing administrative barriers for producers, as well as on greater visibility and thus better marketing. However, we do not think that the division of the Republic of Slovenia into two wine-growing countries is well thought out. This is said to be Primorska and Eastern Slovenia, in our view it would be right to take into account, for example, the Dolenjska wine-growing country, which would include the White Land and the like. While the proposed rational solution, which reduces the number of wine-growing environments, must not be taken into account by already established wine-growing countries known within our national space. It also seems important to us to protect the grape and wine grower, which is provided by the law through the establishment of rules for the processing of grapes and wines. According to the DeSUS Group, this law will also provide for consumer protection in an appropriate manner, since the proposed law of consumer protection is primarily designed to ensure that consumers are protected by controlled processing, which is regulated at key points in such a way that the possibility of abuse of consumer rights is minimised. The proposed regulation of this area thus presents a new challenge for our winemaking and winemaking, new threats and new opportunities. We estimate that the government has taken into account all international standards and obligations in this area when preparing the proposal for a wine law, but it would be right to listen more to the feelings of wine growers in the wine-growing countries so far understood. Despite these concerns, the DeSUS Members will support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Yelena. Mr Stane Pajk will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present. The cultivation of vines and the cultivation of grapes, wine is a tradition that has been in our space since the Roman times. In Slovenia, 16 thousand 500 hectares of vineyards are entered in the register of grape growers. From the aerials, 25 thousand hectares of vineyards are visible, and crops are reported to 12 thousand 700 hectares of vineyards. There are 23 thousand 300 grape growers enrolled, and almost all are wine growers. Registered wine production is about 60 million litres per year. Wine legislation also has a tradition from ancient Austria and has continued through all state works to this day. The Republic of Slovenia received the wine law in 1997, namely the wine and other wine products law, which was amended in 2001. This law has already been European-oriented, but it has not been able to take account of negotiations between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Community. Council Regulation No 1493 of 17.5.1999 was also replaced. In recent times, the situation has also changed significantly, mainly due to the single European market as well as to third countries outside the European Union. All mentioned is the reason and consequently the need to adopt a new wine law governing grapes, musts, wine and other grape and wine products. The law provides for two wine-growing countries - Primorska and Eastern Slovenia, which are divided into 8 wine-growing areas. The law is designed to protect producers primarily at the level of the environment and to guide them to quality production. Reducing the environment to 8 also increases the size of the environment, greater visibility of wine and thus greater opportunities for wine marketing. The law also protects consumers, producers of grapes and wines. The bill offers the possibility to extend the traditional term "PTP wine" with a recognised traditional name, so far they have been only wines, crickets and terranes to extend to other wines for which producers will obtain an appropriate laboratory. This is some news brought by the law, which is now in the process. The SDS Group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government, nice greeting! The proposed wine law represents one of the gradual steps in the development and regulation of winemaking and winemaking in Slovenia. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the proposed law actually brings a more modern and flexible legal framework for wine and winemaking in Slovenia. In particular, we would like to highlight a parallel regulation of the Romani type of protection and protection of the origin of wine. The Regulation of this type of protection and protection is primarily a challenge for producers. We expect industry stakeholders to accept this challenge and take full advantage of the opportunity. We also make a positive assessment of solutions that reduce administrative constraints so far, such as the possibility of bottled wine outside the wine-growing environment, reducing the environment to eight, changing the mandatory time limit for harvesting within the recommended deadline and so on. The introduction of two new traditional expressions, eminent and renowned wine, will at least make it easier to sell our wines to non-Slovenian-speaking customers in Slovenia and in other markets. Solutions regarding wine and non-alcoholic and low-alcoholic wine are also welcome. With these solutions, however, we would like to draw attention to a legal provision that we do not agree with in the Liberal Democracy Chamber. The bill provides that a grape processor is a legal or natural person who processes at least 0.05 hectares, that is, 5 acres of vineyards and 500 square metres. In our view, this limit should be at least once more if we are to improve at least a little bit the size of the vineyards. We believe that even such a low threshold will not increase the register of grape processors of registered vineyards, which is a condition for obtaining any assistance from the State or the European Union. Many growers who process more than 500 square metres are not considered to be vine growers at all, so they are not interested in entering the register, they are not interested in different support, they are not applying for crops, even if they are sold in a grey market; I do not mean to say that we support the grey market. Such a low-level border will not in itself solve these problems, but unfortunately will not help to improve the size of the vineyard structure and thus improve the competitiveness of the industry. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we are also reserved for only two wine-growing countries. We understand that the desire for greater competitiveness is a reason for integration, but we note that within one wine-growing country there are very diverse areas, for example, from Brežice to Kozjak in Styria and to Hodoš in Prekmurje. The question is whether these are areas with similar climate and soil conditions, which, together with agrilogical factors, affect the main organoleptic properties of wine. These are the reasons why, in the Liberal Democracy Club, we were inclined to support the law until the law was discussed in the club itself. With or with regard to the professional institutions of individuals interested in vineyards from various parts of the country in recent days, they have led us to think that we will make a final decision on the support or non-support of the law in the decision-making process in the National Assembly itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to everyone and thank the President for his leadership so far. Mr Weber is next to present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u91	Good day and a nice greeting to the secretary and colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a wine law is certainly necessary if we want to follow the changes that have taken place in order to open up the market and thus increase competition, while in Slovenia we also face excess processing over consumption, and if we add to this the drop in wine prices it is certainly necessary to find solutions to reduce production costs. The analysis shows that at the next harvest, the transition stocks in the public market will increase by about 11 million litres. And if there is still quantitative extensive harvesting, this may present problems both in the acquisition of grapes and later in the sale of wine. For this reason, the Social Democrats support solutions that will reduce administrative obstacles for domestic producers. The bill retains the extended use of the traditional term CTU wine for Cviček and for Vino Kras, while at the same time it will be possible for other varieties to obtain such status on the basis of a special laboratory. Of course, we are aware that the concentration of production and reduction of administrative barriers is linked to the number of wine-growing areas. The wine-growing area is divided into wine-growing countries, wine-growing environments, wine-growing areas, places, locations and so on. The greatest dilemma is around the number of wine-growing countries. If we are trying to analyse the ideas that arose when the law was passed, we find that the geographical names for Primorsko and Eastern Slovenia are proposed by the two countries. From a geological substrate that affects the type of soil in relation to climate conditions, and is therefore highly dependent on the nature of wine shows that if we look at a newer geological map, it is in the east of Slovenia, because vineyards from Prekmurje to the left bank of Sava are on hilly areas, based on the geological basis of the tertiary soft carbonite rock and separate from the absolutely dominant geological base on the right bank of Sava, which gives the character of a solid sedimentary stone of older origin. These are some of the basic grounds that the profession uses to explain, and if we are also trying to document this with data obtained from multi-year climate data and are extremely important for wine growing, it follows that the vineyards of the right bank of Sava are based on geologically different origins, which also comes from the range, as it is 60% to 70% of red wine varieties and organoleptic differences, but these characteristics will be, say experts stranded in the environment that represent the most rounded vineyard area for the processing of quality wines. It is noted here that we can combine in two countries, but at the same time we find that in at least one of these countries, due to geographical characteristics or geological characteristics, it is extremely difficult to produce related types of wine. While the solution is that we have wine-growing environments that are presented in the law as: Styersko - Slovenia, Prekmurje, Dolenjska, Bela krajina, Kras, Slovenian Istria, Vipavska dolina and Brda, which certainly solves this problem a little bit, the fact is that during the adoption phase of the law with such a way of taking into account differences in wine producers, they do not agree mainly in Dolenjska and in some way warn that, after all, we should be able to get a Styrian pixie soon, which is what I think we need to further analyse when adopting this law and, if we finally decide on two or three wine-growing countries, I see that we should actually analyse all issues professionally and then decide on the adoption of the law. Thus, we believe that it would be more appropriate that this law should not be adopted at this time until the country is defined more precisely.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The position of the new Slovenia will be presented by Ambassador Uhanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, Representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! We will support the Wine Act in Novi Slovenija. Our aim is to bring the law into line with the European legal order, to ensure consumer and producer protection and to allow for competition in the transport of grapes and wine. We introduce a register of oenological resources, the term "eminent" for top wines and "renome" for wines with a traditionally recognised concept of CTU. It remains in law that any farmer with at least 5 acres and more vineyards must be entered in the register. Regardless of the area mentioned above, all those who market wine. We reduce the number of wine-growing environments from 14 to 8 and only get two, Primorska and Eastern Slovenia instead of 3 wine-growing countries. The latter is absorbed by the Posavina and Podrava wine-growing countries. Since Slovenia is divided into two zones, according to climate and other conditions, it is essential that we have two countries, otherwise experts and economists believe that it would make sense to have even one wine-growing country, in particular from an economic point of view. In Novi Slovenija we supported two countries on the committee. However, I must say that on my own working body, I highlighted the fear of Downland vineyards in order to spill out of Dolenjska. In addition, some winegrowers or cellars buy grapes outside of Dolenjska and make a flower. Cviček is protected by the wine-growing environment of Dolenjska, the wine-growing environment of Dolenjska remains in law. It is also regulated by the 2000 rules, and this is the law for us. Wine yields are a geographical indication of the country's wines, which is certainly not a drill. Only the greed of some vine growers who buy or want to buy grapes outside the wine-growing environment of Dolenjska can be endangered. This is certainly not the purpose of this law, even more so as to violate the acts already adopted. So in the new Slovenia we will support the law. As Dolenjka, I hope that the bean will still be made only from grapes from the lower environment, from an environment that is home to it, but should be marketed not only in its own country, but also that it should cross all the borders of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Kramberger to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Mrs Špela Trpin, colleagues and colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, of course, we will support the law. We are convinced that the legislative solutions towards alignment with the European acquis with consumer protection continue to be followed by changes in competition in the transport of wine and grapes, and a register of oenological means is being introduced to ensure that these are good solutions in law. In addition to this change in environmental boundaries or the reduction of environments from 14 to 8, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that this is a good solution, especially in terms of the economy. In recent days, we have also received a number of initiatives and dilemmas in connection with the adopted solution on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, where we have adopted an amendment for two wine-growing countries - Primorska and Eastern Slovenia. Personally, as well as colleagues in the Group, we are convinced that this is a suitable solution. However, we do not want to be, so we do not want to over-prevent or persuade the convinced, because in Dolenjska and the White Krajina, they are deeply convinced that they need their land. And now, of course, we have to agree on how we're going to do this in the course of the day. Because of us, there can be three countries. And the procedure does not allow us - it allows us two things to adopt the law and, of course, with the assurance of the government, to fix it as soon as possible in three countries, or to reject the law and wait for another proposal. I don't think this last, last solution would be appropriate. We want to contribute to this amendment of the law and also to somehow convince the lower winemakers, who are a large number, over 4 thousand, that they will not think that this law forces them into unreasonable association and that Slovenia will lose its diversity and speciality and this rich offer of various brands of the highest quality wines. We are sure that this is not going in this direction, but in these initiatives they state that poor traffic control with grapes and wine and this great eastern country will not be so well controlled by their beliefs, and then it can happen that the drill will no longer be the one the growers want. But of course, actually these two things don't have anything in common, so to speak, a drill, it's very clear how it's produced. So we will support the marriage, and in the course of the day we will also agree on how we will resolve this dilemma, so that we can continue to drink the bean and Slovenian wine from two or three countries on health and in honor of wine and in honor of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I would also like to invite Mr Barovic to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President, colleagues, colleagues. We will not support the proposed wine law in the Slovenian National Party. First of all, because we're assessing that it's not consistent with the winemakers. Secondly, because we are convinced that the Dolenjians deserve their wineland. And thirdly, too much reminds us of the formation of lands and areas at yesterday's point or perhaps a little of today's.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the members of the groups and are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the 16.12. review of the amendments, of course this year, and I am opening the debate on the 43rd article of the bill and on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm sorry. Mr. Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you. This is only a question for the government or the minister. We are talking about, in this amendment, addressing the deficiencies of musts, wine and other products and, of course, I also have some interest in the possible position of the government, or it is more effective that we have two or three wine-growing countries, to facilitate the management of such content as is provided for in Article 43, so when it comes to deficiencies in must and wine.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u101	I would like to provide an explanation as to the division into wine-growing countries. There have been quite a few of you who have highlighted this problem, and it is true that I also explain matters from the government's point of view. In the 1997 law in force, three wine-growing countries, Primorska, Posavje, Podravje, were proposed by the government with this bill. Wineland is the limit for growing grapes for table country wines. The aim of our production is to process quality quality wines, which also represents 70% of registered production in the Republic of Slovenia. On wines of a quality class, this means quality wines with a protected geographical origin, on top of wine of protected geographical origin and on the wines of CTU, wine with a recognised traditional designation, for example, pixie, must not be marked by the country. So in the Republic of Slovenia we produce a small amount of wine, which is marked by the name of the country. That is why division into less countries, two instead of three, is in line with the objectives of the law, and this solution is also supported by the ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment to Article 43 is purely "okay" even though he would have tied himself to my predecessor. I think there are things missing that are crucial. I must say that I come from a region called Dolenjska, White Krajina, and there are certainly 5,000 vineyards, smaller, private, determined against two countries, and I must say it publicly and loudly. And I'm surprised that the government has taken such a decision - three countries. There's been some kind of miracle on the agriculture committee. In the meantime, there must have been a lot going on, lobbying, and some lobbying had won and conquered two countries. Why is that, although I have now received the answer in part, this answer is not from my assessment of drinking water. We need to talk to the growers, we need to find a consensus that everyone, both the Dolenjians, the Belokrans and the Styrians and the Primors, will be satisfied. That's the purpose of this marriage. In fact, the law is not bad, it is good, it is a step forward, but obviously you have not found yourself here, or you have played another role, the second path which at this moment causes dissatisfaction in this area, which is regulated today, is properly regulated in this Association of Vineyard Associations for Dolenjska, where vineyards unite and connect. Now there is a fear that this exercise, whose story is, thank God, has succeeded and is also confirmed by Parliament in the previous term by law - there is a fear of what will happen to it. For we know well that there is simply no control over it, and it will speculate in one way or another, with grapes, here and there, and the drill will lose its value, as well as the methyl black. Therefore, I feel that this law with these two provinces gives the opportunity to speculate on the merchants, the merchants, and the otherwise involved. Those small private vineyards, successful today, will lose their primate and their success. That is why I would ask that the Ministry, and not least today our fellow Members, find a way not to make another mistake for those who have just won yesterday, but today we are again putting them in some precarious situation and dissatisfaction, because no one will be satisfied with such legislation, neither Members nor the ministry, and even less wine growers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you very much. A replica or a debate? Then Mr. Grill has the upper hand, and then you'll be on your way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister and representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture. This law, which was originally introduced, has received numerous support from the environment from which I come, Dolenjska, and here is the number of vineyards over 4,600, and if we also consider Belarusian vineyarders, it is over 5,700 or close to 6,000. This is a large number, and this law, as originally proposed, has received great support and there have been no criticisms or comments. However, the amendment was adopted by the Committee, as my predecessors have mentioned, in Article 8, and it has virtually failed the expectations of all these vineyards. We know that two of the three shares were formed, namely Styria, Dolenjska and Bela Krajina. The argument is that the climate situation, like the grape range itself, is somewhere appropriate, I don't think it's sustainable. Each laik, or occasional wine brewer, well separates the wines of the same varieties that come from Styria, Dolenjska or the White Country. Why is that? Because climate and geographical conditions are different. Therefore, on this side too, I think it would make sense that we have three countries, as the government originally proposed. We know that the cricket is a recognised wine today, both in Slovenia and outside Slovenia. And the way to this celebration and the establishment of this brand has been long and thorny, also with the support of many colleagues and fellow Members from the previous term. It would be bad for any possibility to be relieved so that the drill could be misused or lost on a trade mark. The legal option provided by or with two wine-growing countries certainly makes such abuse easier. There'll be power here, no matter where we have the law, where the drill is grown, where it's filled. Abuses will be possible here, because the inspection can certainly not prevent this altogether. We can make a brand with great effort, with much effort and exercise it has certainly been involved in this effort and path, but we can destroy it overnight and the mistakes are irreparable. For me personally, as well as for all the winegrowers from the environment where I come from, such a law as is now before us is practically unacceptable and since there is no other option than to reject it or accept it, it is acceptable for me here, and I am indeed asking the government to correct this law immediately after this adoption. I will also support it under this condition, because the law is otherwise good and if we really have a change in this law in January or February, I think we will reach some compromise where no one will be harmed and will be in the best interests of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you very much. However, it is my duty to point out that the debate is not about the exercise or wine-growing countries, but about the 43rd Article and amendment that is before you and I would kindly ask that you stick to it, because of courtesy I did not wish to jump into the words of the previous interlocutors. Now it's Mr Zagorac's turn, and then I've got the list, and he's canceling, and then Mr Weber and later Master Kramberger. Mr. Weber, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you. I just wanted to point out that I did not actually get an answer to what the number of countries means in terms of eliminating the lack of must and wine, as this article speaks of. However, I would like to point out that this situation will certainly be worsened if the law is adopted today in order to remedy the deficiencies and control the deficiencies of must and wine. We will establish two countries, tomorrow we will adopt a new law, where we will enforce as three countries appear. In fact, it is an inappropriate procedure, so I think it is better that we reject this law today because of the control of the lack of must and wine, prepare a new text and enforce it in a way that wine growers will know what they are up to and that, of course, they will also be able to design all those stickers and what is necessary for you to come to the market with the article. Because it is impossible to expect someone to have a two-month wine mark, and then the law will have to be adopted again. It seems more correct to me, especially to address the lack of must and wine, to reject the law today and then to establish three countries and to implement it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Master Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As the word runs on the proposed amendment to Article 43, I say that the Slovenian People's Party will support this amendment because it is also a co-proposer. In addition, I would like to ask the Minister about the proposal I mentioned earlier on behalf of the Group of Members. It is well known that in fact all parties agree with this change of law, that solutions are good, the problem is only two or three wine-growing countries. I would now like to ask if the Minister can now determine whether it is more appropriate for us to adopt this law now or reject it and in what time will we get that change for three wine-growing countries, so that we can be calm and also wine-growing plants and vineyards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I would first answer Mr Weber, who is talking about Article 43. It is a deficiency if it is too low an extract or if it is too low an alcohol, this article is referring to this deficiency, but not to the countries. However, with regard to questions or the initiative of Member Kramberger, our opinion is as follows. In view of the fact that the law is largely in line with the European legal order and it is essential that it be adopted as soon as possible, I propose that it be adopted, and that we then immediately hold a public debate, once again discuss two or three countries and prepare a change only in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u113	I can't be satisfied with the Minister's response. We're talking about removing the lack of musts, wine. This is very important in relation to the countries, because, in so far as we have a large country, transport is possible in a much larger area than if we have two, three countries. This is the principle of the country, why we need the land at all. So that I really want to know if there is a must, some wine that has a poorer quality, or whether it makes sense that we have two or three countries, because it is specifically about the transport of grapes, musts, unconstitutional wine, preventing the combination of grapes, musts, wines, etc., from different environments within the country. That's what we're talking about. In such a way that even for that part of the must, the part of the wine for which the defect needs to be corrected is probably important whether the transport can run within two countries or within three.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Anyone else? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 43 and the amendment mentioned above. And I am putting to the debate Article 56 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Who wants to discuss this specific article and this specific amendment? [[Nobody.]] Thank you very much. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, or no later than 17:00 and 55 minutes. Let me also say, because the theory without practice is utopia, that I can only sincerely wish that we would have the opportunity at the weekend of individual articles of this law to test on our throats. This concludes this agenda item. I'm moving to 18. Agenda item - On the defence of the draft resolution on the national research and development programme for the period 2006-2010 Among us, I also welcome Minister Zupan. We have two hours and 20 minutes to discuss. And since the motion for a resolution has been submitted for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I am also giving her representative, Minister Zupan, an opportunity to further explain the motion for a resolution. Please, Dr. Zupan, and I ask you to go in accordance with your customs to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u115	Mr Vice-President, distinguished members and members of the National Assembly! The National Research and Development Programme and the resolution you will adopt is one of the main starting points for the conduct of research research policy in Slovenia, and it is based on the view that research development activities must contribute to the progress and success of Slovenia and all its citizens, which leads to the prioritising of the scientific areas necessary for the preservation and development of national and national identity. So this is what I would like to stress, but of course the national research programme is very extensive, is the result of a total of almost six years of work, in fact the Commissions that did it were established before 2000, because the period 2000 to 2005, of course, for this period it was necessary to make this resolution, but in all these years this resolution has not been made, the programme has been revised, prepared and so on. So the first Commission then turned the work over to the second Commission and then there was a very, very broad discussion and the present resolution is also the result of coordination and the fact that in the end we have reached common starting points, which are very important, namely, the main starting point is to increase the impact of research development activities in the home environment, in particular the promotion of greater research, development and innovation cooperation between companies and all research institutions, both in public research institutions and at the university, so it is a matter of cooperation and knowledge exchange and it is not a matter of transferring knowledge from, say one higher to a lower level. We believe that a common European research space needs to be established and therefore the economic users of this, as well as the public research institutions and higher education institutions, are particularly interested. Another important decision is that, according to the Barcelona target, we increase Slovenia's investment to 3% of gross national income by 2010, and this is divided into the assumption that 2% of gross national income will go from the economy and 1% from the state budget, with particular emphasis being placed on the majority of new investments in technological development, says that part of the investment involved in technological development will be divided into 80:20 for enterprise research, economic research and 20% for, as we say, basic research. So the fact is that we want to increase these funds. What is still extremely important is the next point, namely to strengthen human resources, with the fact that Europe has become an excellent place for the exchange of these resources, for mobility, as we say, and that Slovenia is extremely interested in increasing mobility, not only by Slovenian researchers going abroad and returning, but also by foreign researchers coming to our companies, so we want to increase our share in European research projects and that one of the criteria for success and for obtaining domestic research projects will also be the criteria for how much money will be received from European funds in cooperation with other companies and other research institutions or organisations in Europe. So the next objective is to increase the number of high-tech innovative companies, as far as priority is concerned, to mention only what is explicitly mentioned here, I will briefly say, information and communication technology, advanced synthetic metal and non-metallic materials, nano technologies, a complex system of innovative technology, a technology for a sustainable economy, health and knowledge in life, and basic knowledge of human and society is important for Slovenian national development. So these are essentially the main points and these are the building blocks of the national research programme, or the resolution [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] I would only ask for something, just to say that there has been last-minute coordination and there are still certain typographical errors and we have promised that we will, of course, correct certain typographical errors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u116	Okay, but we're kind of done. The motion for a resolution was also addressed by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the working body of the mother, and I ask the Committee president, Mr Rudolf Mojet, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u117	Mr Vice-President, thank you very much for your words, dear colleagues and colleagues. In time, the Committee considered this resolution. At the beginning of the meeting, representatives of the motion for a resolution stressed, in their opening remarks, that a broad professional public had participated in the development of this document, which was one of the most important documents of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, and that the draft resolution was inter-sectorally coordinated, in line with the reform committee's proposals. The document is also in line with the Lisbon Strategy and contains many measurable objectives, so that it can be compared with what is planned and what has been achieved. The State Council supports the document because it also contains specific commitments to achieve the objectives set. It stresses the need to further strengthen cooperation between the research and academic spheres and the economy. It also raises the question of how to achieve the objective of greater entrepreneurial funding for research at universities and institutes if we do not have defined technological development agents and the national programme is not in line with entrepreneurial development plans for this period. The representatives of universities in Maribor and Ljubljana mainly expressed their concerns about the envisaged planning of the establishment of new universities. This could result in the fragmentation of scientific potentials in the Slovenian space. The quality of higher education could thus be reduced, so we need to be cautious and rational in these projects, and it is necessary to ensure that adequate education is provided before new universities are established, which is not an easy task. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee supported the direction of the motion for a resolution. In this regard, they considered that the document in some segments should be burdened so that its objectives were also actually achievable. The document does not pay enough attention to the development of research in the field of humanities and social sciences, which are, as well as technical sciences, important for the balanced development of our society. In some areas, the research and development programme envisages an unrealistic increase in funds for these purposes and is therefore likely to remain unrealised. With regard to the envisaged establishment of new universities, it was said that it was necessary to have a rational attitude in this regard, since the quality of education should not decrease despite the increase in the number of universities. Members of the Committee also stressed that the number of new universities and their establishment should be resolved in the resolution of the National Higher Education Programme, not in the case of research activities. Since I have initially said that we have dealt with this in times of distress, I must finally mention the unloving thing. The Committee adopted two amendments to the parliamentary club and several amendments to the proposal. After the meeting of the Committee, we were informed by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology that the document on certain items was inconsistent and that certain corrections should therefore be made, which the Minister had already mentioned before me. Given that these corrections are not all editorial in nature and that, pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Document, it is no longer possible to correct them, the motion for a resolution will have to be redrafted by the motion for amendments or additions to the motion for a resolution if it wants all the items in the document to be properly mentioned. It is mainly numbers, young researchers and the share of the resources defined by the National Research Programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you very much, chairman of the board. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word, Mr Mag. Figures for the presentation of the SDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary! Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have here again a strategic document, a resolution on the National Research and Development Programme for the next four to five years. Documents that are linked to the strategy are often easily and with little real interest to be adopted, and consequently, when measures are taken to implement such strategic documents, there are complications and differing opinions and difficulties in their implementation. Similarly, this resolution, which has been universally coordinated, is also a very comprehensive document, covers the whole area of research and development, education, the link to the economy and is also sufficiently concrete in its objectives. These objectives, which are mentioned above, mean our commitment and commitment to the proposer, the ministry and the government, and the commitment of all those who participated in the drafting of this resolution and coordinated it with each other. For we are not only responsible for realisation but also for all the institutions and even the economy in certain parts of this integration. I might mention just a few things that have been and are lately, or, you could say, for a few years you are appearing in discussions about, now with a very resounding name called the Lisbon and Bologna strategies or declarations. In Slovenia too, not only has a proposal for reforms or a country's development strategy led to broad public debates. And if I just sum up some of these very significant examples, let's say it's time for us to start distinguishing between good science and bad science, it's time to create or somehow connect in a responsible way, in a business way, researchers, higher education and the economy and so on. I am also a member of the Committee of the EU Regions and there is also a regular debate on these issues. The frightening information I've been tracking or data is as follows. Yes, not only Slovenia for Europe, but Europe for the most developed or for the most innovative companies is significantly lagging behind for practically a whole percentage of GDP. And even more frightening to me is the fact that in 20 years Europe will have only 5% of the world's population. The most popular areas are already in an innovative sense, say Asia 52%. Despite the fact that Lisbon 2005 has been replaced by the Lisbon 2010 without serious measures in this area and without even falling behind the ciliium, there will be no movement and catch-up without serious action in this area. Our desire, the whole of Europe, is to catch up, or even, by 2010, some are talking about overcoming the most developed areas. Of course, these most developed areas are not waiting for us to catch up. It is my opinion that all the objectives set require another important measure, which is long-term. Actually, it's not just the Ministry of Higher Education that can make a difference. The Ministry can now only monitor the development research programme and, through the government, assume that part of its responsibility. An essential act will be needed, in my opinion, by ourselves, in our values. The value of being a researcher, being innovative, being dynamic and entrepreneurial, which somehow got lost not only in Slovenia, but unfortunately also in Europe. Today's youth, especially in Slovenia, especially poor patterns and a different way of life, somehow no longer sees the real challenge of being creative, a scientist, a researcher, an applicator, especially if it is already done, to transfer its achievement through its company or another company to the market and to put it into effect. By changing education and education in the direction of changing values both in primary education and in protection, if you want, as in higher education. And here I think that the most important part that we're actually talking about, but it's hard to realize. I would like to conclude the matter by saying that somehow the national research and development programme, the resolution, is a framework, a vision, this time also with specific objectives, is an important commitment for the government and for Parliament and the other institutions, and I hope that, as such, it will not only remain on paper and desire, but that we will also actively implement it together. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support and participate in the implementation and implementation of the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Dr. Gaber, to present the LDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u121	Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Charge, colleagues and colleagues! The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports the adoption of the National Research and Development Programme. In our party, we believe that this is one of the most important acts adopted by this National Assembly, probably with what we expect in this Parliament, the National Higher Education Programme for the Further Development of Slovenia, even the most important document. Together, it is intended to lay the groundwork to be able to establish both climate and an appropriate level of reflection on how Slovenia can achieve a calm and professional development breakthrough. However, it seems to us that it will be extremely important, on the one hand, to regulate the system, to regulate the area, that very important resources will be available to do so and that philosophy and climate action in this area, which I think has already been mentioned here. This will be very important in two areas. On the one hand, it is wider in Europe, where Europe is making major mistakes and has adopted an anti-European budget or is adopting an anti-European budget and, on the other hand, here in Slovenia. The big words about breakthroughs will remain the letter on paper in case they are not followed by mechanisms on the one hand that allow this and on the other hand a completely serious approach by the State to create a climate that invites them to explore in a certain way. I myself believe that we will be able to ensure the proportion of public funds that need to be provided for this area in a very timely manner. I think it is possible to achieve 1% of the gross social product from public funds in a couple of years, certainly within this mandate. I also believe that the degree of orderliness in the area is such that it already allows for quite normal work. The third element, which is very important to us, is largely missing. In fact, the relevant climate of cooperation between, on the one hand, users of research achievements and knowledge, on the other hand research organisations and third countries. Here we have not been able to put in place mechanisms so far that would seriously encourage this way of functioning, and I believe we will not, either, if there is a great deal of mistrust and overconfidence of any of the players at work in the future. If the state believes that it can regulate through its mechanisms what can only be regulated by the economy and researchers in mutual dialogue or by all three together, then we can have a large, unnecessary outage of what this national programme should contribute. If research organisations believe that the economy or users cannot co-defined what needs to be explored, how to organise production and transfer knowledge, then this will be another very big obstacle. And if industry believes on the third side or users, because it's better to say that this science has nothing to tell us that it's only dealing with itself, then we're on the wrong track. This moment I see in all three players some wrong philosophy, very much believe each of these players in ourselves, very little do we do with how to make a common ground of this breakthrough. A complete Slovenian project should be, it cannot be a project of position or opposition or science or economy, to anyone. Just because it seems to me that this should be a joint project, we will support it in the form that it is here; we expect it to complement something that has been accepted. At the same time, we would like to draw attention to the fact that in the document they are completely redundant and also corrupt the normal form of the document, the so-called right-wing discriminating "flying" in this document, the talk of trusting responsible civil society and sharing civil society with responsible and irresponsible civil society, which has no place in this document, is professionally inappropriate and politically unreasonable exclusion at all, and there are still such records, something in this paper. At the same time, if this paper required cleaning, I would demand - and I am pledging myself, I also asked the minister on the committee - to consider how to build it. It doesn't say anywhere that this document can't be completed when we accept it now. It would also be necessary to upgrade it during this period for which it is accepted, because on all the good sides it is sick for some very obvious Slovenian disease: we have a national programme of research and development in the field of technology and science; we still believe that only these two areas really contribute to society's well-being and normal development. This is a premodern concept, certainly has nothing to do with the development trends in the world right now. It is not enough to believe that a serious breakthrough can be achieved in this area alone. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in the Liberal Democracy, we believe that we are able to make this additional thought together, both in politics and in all science users, on purpose I am not just talking about the economy, because it is an essential too narrow concept, and of course also a research and development sphere. Let me finish. I hope, with some additions, we will support this document in the expectation that we will be able to come up with the next phase that we all need together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Majda Potrat, who will present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We support the adoption of a resolution on the National Research and Development Programme for the period 2006-2010. This is another type of resolution that identifies specific areas in the public interest. However, since this area is directly linked to knowledge, it is one of the most important resolutions for the Social Democrats, and we also express our disagreement with the opening chapter on the situation and the framework for the conclusion that knowledge has not played an important role in our society. This resolution outlines the objectives of research and development activities, identifies areas that are particularly promising for Slovenia, lists the tasks of institutions involved in research and development activities and lists measures to achieve the objectives set. The advantage of such national programmes is that they can also be complemented, but it is difficult to expect that any component of such a programme will also be realized, especially if it even states that this programme is an opportunity and a challenge for Slovenia and that the objectives set are so high that they are at the border of feasibility. It is precisely because national programmes can be complemented, as they can also be reviewed, that we expect some of the comments made in the debate to be taken further into account. We do not deny the objectives recorded in the programme under consideration, but they could be complemented or set in such a way as to predict feasibility. We are wondering, like the legal and legislative service, why the government is taking all the measures that the programme is supposed to take. The complementary programme now states that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, will implement the following measures as a matter of priority in order to achieve the objectives set, but that institutions still do not have to be involved as independent institutions, in particular the quality of the evaluation, are said to be established or other laws of the prescribed public agencies in charge of quality control. In particular, measures to implement these new expert systems of project evaluation and achievement should be specifically imposed, I reiterate, on independent expert groups, i.e. independent agencies or other institutions, not on the government. Again, from the genies of the national programme presented in the additional explanation for the second hearing of the Committee, it is noted that the time devoted to the debate was very short for the public to discuss. However, the importance of the document would require a longer period for comments from the professional public and the institutions concerned by the programme, but not only a good two weeks, from 27 May to 15 June. Unfortunately, they were not all included in the debate. However, the question remains how many comments have been taken into account. The document, however, is undoubtedly aware that it was more focused on science and technology and was attracted to humanities as an additive rather than an integral part of the programme. In this regard, it should be noted that the importance of social science and humanities for the general social development and well-being of all people has recently been discussed by some 350 leading researchers of social and humanities from most European countries and other parts of the world. In Brussels, they were invited by the European Commission, presented the current practice of integrating sociology and humanities into European research programmes and presented the importance and envisaged future role of these research, not only in the common European development but also in the context of global globalisation. Let me mention the words of Slovenian Commissioner Janez Potočnik, who has ensured active participation in humanities and sociology in the future, the 7th Framework Research Programme. In particular, he stressed the importance of the cohesive role of social and humanist sciences, even more so, he stressed that such research is essential for the more successful implementation of the European Union policy. It would therefore be irresponsible for these skills to be neglected or simply glued to development in their national programme, to the programme of technological and natural research work. It also seems an artificial dilemma as to whether to support basic or applied research. The European Union also underlines the importance and urgency of financing, promoting and disseminating fundamental knowledge, and does not ignore the importance of applied knowledge, but if some national, developmental and research activity were to give up basic knowledge, to cancel basic research, this would be an irreparable mistake and would be a reduction in the competitive capacity of domestic knowledge, of domestic innovative skills, and over time it would be difficult to eliminate it after I have done so. In any event, I should point out once again that some of the claims set out in Chapter Status and the framework for the Socialist Group of Members are also unacceptable and that the methodology used for the analytical part of this programme is such that in some of its conclusions it could be strongly challenged. Some experts who have had the opportunity to send their comments have also done so, but in the form that it was transmitted shows that these comments have not been taken into account. However, a number of measures that have found their place at the end of the document and which have defined carriers would need a very thorough review, a critical shock, because it can be found, at least for some of them, that it is difficult to place them only in 2007, since these measures were introduced into a number of programmes long ago, and certainly after 1995 when the basic strategy of the development and research programme was adopted. Nevertheless, the Social Democrats will support the resolution of the National Research and Development Programme because we believe it is an important document. We hope, however, that in the future, what is also stated in this programme will actually come to life, namely, that we must pay great attention to the development of human resources. Human resources in the Republic of Slovenia are mentioned and it is appropriate that all are included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Capudra to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The prepared proposal for a national development and research programme shows that Slovenia is lagging behind the most successful European Union countries in investing in R & D in terms of GDP. According to R & D expenditure, Slovenia is ranked in the middle of EU countries and has an appropriate relationship between public and private investment. However, Slovenia is extremely unsuccessful in the efficiency of the use of funds, the prioritisation of priorities and, in particular, the use of the results of the R & D work for faster economic and social development. The data also show that only one fifth of companies are innovatively active, which ranks us among the last four countries of the enlarged European Union. Further widening the gap between Slovenia and developed countries will deny economic development and prevent the achievement of other development objectives. As we mentioned in New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party already mentioned in the debate on the amendment of the law on development and research activities, there is a worrying situation in the field of knowledge use. Research is primarily its purpose and does not serve the full and even development of our society. In our client, we are aware that we are carriers and a measure of human development. We therefore place research and development in all areas of human activity at the centre of the development of Slovenia. We are confident that Slovenia will only become a human society with equal and equal treatment of the spiritual, intellectual, economic, social and environmental dimensions of development, building on the quality of the individual and thus on the quality of society as a whole. It should be noted, however, that so far some areas of science have been explicitly neglected against others, especially in the field of science and technology, which in our society is in no way found its right place to go. With the knowledge of these bases, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up a resolution on the National Research and Development Programme. The programme follows the quality and effectiveness of research activities in Slovenia with a number of measures and promotes the integration of education, research and entrepreneurship. Above all, it is important to motivate the economy to increase investment in research and development, to cooperate with research organisations and to employ top experts. I am sure that we will make a big move already if businesses in the economy are to see science and technology as an investment, but not as something you don't have to do. The key objectives of the programme are to increase the impact of R & D in the home environment, to increase economic investment in R & D, to increase the quality of R & D work, to strengthen human resources and to increase the number of high-tech and innovative companies necessary for the successful transfer of knowledge and results of R & D. The programme ahead of us identifies areas that are particularly promising for Slovenia. These are areas that allow for greater knowledge, economic efficiency and faster development and are based on the values of human society. The main drivers of the programme are universities, public research institutions, I am sure, also private research institutions and the economic sector. All the main actors supported the programme proposal at the meeting of the parent committee, in particular at the points where the integration between the individual main stakeholders in the development and research activities and the government which committed itself to its actions is envisaged. In Nova Slovenije - The Christian People's Party we welcome the government's intentions to increase research and development funding by about 6 billion tolars per year each year. These funds will primarily improve research infrastructures, increase the number of young researchers from 250 to 350 per year, by increasing the number of them mainly into the economy, co-financing the emergence of as many new, high-tech companies as possible, giving them more opportunity to develop for growth and penetration into the market of the new products of larger companies under their established brand. The number of top foreign researchers visiting Slovenia will increase significantly, and incentives for popularisation in science and science in general in the media and in this entire educational system will increase. In the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we welcome the Government's actions to ensure the establishment of appropriate legislation in the field of development and research and in the field of tax legislation, which will encourage investment in research, development and human resources, and in particular to bring together the work of experts between higher education institutions, research institutions and the economy. We also support the Government's desire to improve its control over the implementation of the programme. In the national development and research programme, the government has set itself high targets. There was quite a debate on why the programmes recorded were measurable and with time-bound targets. I believe some of them are on the verge of reality. On the other hand, in the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we are confident that if we do not impose challenging tasks, we will be sentenced to average. With the proposed national research and development programme, we are deciding not only how to develop, rich and humane Slovenia will be tomorrow, but also where it will be in a decade or more. Therefore, in the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a national development and research programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Kramberger will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We view the resolution on the national development and research programme in the Slovenian People's Party as a good document. The national development and research programme for the period 2006-2010 is part of a national development strategy that is in line with the Lisbon objectives. The long-term objective is to achieve sustainable improvement in the well-being of the people and people of Slovenia, which requires faster economic growth in the next ten years and to achieve or even exceed the average economic development of the European Union and reduce the risks of social security and the environment. It is important for the Slovenian People's Party that the development vision of Slovenia be realized as a humane and developmental society that builds on the quality development of individual people and society and in the participation of responsible civil society and critical public. We are a measure of human development, so the development of society must improve the prospects of every human being for a long, healthy and quality life, while respecting the principles of sustainable development. We agree with the estimates that following the independence of the new requirements, values and thinking processes have not been established in all areas. As a result, knowledge is low and society is lagging behind in finding comprehensive answers to the problems of the development of modern society. This is due to lack of concern for the development of a human and solidarity society, to poor systemic strengthening of the importance of knowledge as values, to the creativity of individual and whole civil society and to the lack of participation of all social actors. The technological development and innovation of the country is a prerequisite for achieving strategic development goals, promoting economic growth, new jobs and thus the well-being of the people of Slovenia. Unfortunately, the national development and research programme was not adopted before the establishment of the agencies and the new project and programme funding cycle launched last year, which already provides for the use of approximately two thirds of the budget for basic and applied research. The situation in Slovenia: Slovenia has achieved relatively high and stable economic growth in the ten years of transition, and Slovenia has followed the requirements of European integration due to the approximation of the European Union, and has somehow ignored the development aspects of European and global integration. We must be aware that some of the new Member States have reduced their economic backlog for the European Union faster than the Republic of Slovenia. In 2003, the gross domestic product per capita amounted to 16 000 400 PPS, representing 77% of the European Union average. Despite positive growth trends, however, there remain open problems, structural problems which make the level of competitiveness of the Slovenian business sector and companies too low. The latter is shown in technological underdevelopment and relatively low productivity. It is also worrying to see the decline in the establishment of new technological and innovative enterprises. In investing in research and development, Slovenia's gross domestic product is lagging behind the most successful countries of the European Union for more than factor 2 and about that much for the Lisbon objectives. The situation in the field of knowledge use is also worrying, as there are only one-fifth of companies that are innovatively active, which ranks us among the last four countries in the European Union. Colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that Slovenia needs a joint work of science, economy and development incentives for joint science and economy projects. We see this document in this direction, so we will support this strategy in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Žgajner Tavš to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. We have heard from the home work body that the resolution on the national research and development programme is one of the most important documents of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. The document is to be prepared in cooperation with the representatives of the Ministry of Economy and UMAR and inter-resourced coordination and is in line with the reform committee's proposals. With regard to the following, it can therefore be concluded that the resolution in question is well-finished in the pursuit of a more efficient and quality scientific research work in the Republic of Slovenia, in relation to a competitive economy. The overall long-term objective is to improve the well-being of the people and people of Slovenia, which requires faster economic growth in the next ten years and to achieve or even exceed the average economic development of the European Union and reduce the risk of social security. You know, the game of words should not be the leader of a ruling policy that creates and, not least, leads people's lives. It is a matter of responsibility and it is a fact that government reforms tending to increase the efficiency of the economy ignore the human side of life. This also shows the present resolution, which is literally, I will say, a copy of the government policy transmitted to the field of science and research and which has emphasis only and only in the field of science and technology. Today, I have heard from a colleague before me that today’s youth is due to a different way of life or that today’s youth, because of a different way of life, no longer sees the real purpose. This is what I want to stress and what it is, I hope that he wanted to say correctly, but nevertheless; according to the document that we have before us today, I do not find the true meaning of these words. I would almost like to ask the Minister a question and get an answer where, throughout the 2006-2010 plan, the part that makes it possible to achieve the government goal or quote it, "the realization of the development vision of Slovenia as a humane, into the world of an open dynamic and developmental society that builds on the quality development of individual people and society and the participation of responsible civil society and the critical public". It's just sociological values, social values. I'm sorry, but there is no point in humanity in this resolution. The quality development of an individual is based on everything rather than on the exploitation of it as a workforce. Last but not least, it's the man who creates the added value. For a development-balanced society, the government must not favour just one segment, in this case a natural and technical segment, and the others should purposely characterise them as less valuable and therefore also evaluate them with "value points" - in a statement of course. Unfortunately, at least for the time being, civil society has little chance in the new government to develop and strengthen itself, as the leaders do not really recognize or recognize any significant value. In the Slovenian National Party, we have rightly expressed doubts about the seriousness of the written words in similar resolutions. There are even more doubts about the realisation of these. Although the resolution is very optimistically highly targeted, it ignores an important part of our assessment. It's part of social science and humanism. Here, I will use the words of one of the Members, expressed on the working body of the mother, "that actual sociology and humanities represent only the added content in this resolution." Nevertheless, the resolution cannot in fact be challenged because it represents an important framework document, a strategy that is in fact very positive in most or in certain parts. It is also consistent with the Lisbon Strategy. The practice will, I believe, show its own and, of course, individual sectoral laws, but unfortunately for the time being, these - at least in the home area, i.e. the area of higher education and, last but not least, research and development - are following pure politicisation in terms of government control and direction of the economy as well. And allow me to conclude with a few more points or questions that would make sense to consider and address them in the context of further action in implementing the government strategy. Slovenia maintains the status quo as regards the level of innovation of companies, which does not follow the vision of a knowledge-based company. Between 2001 and 2002, only 21.1% of innovative companies were active in Slovenia, only three countries in the European Union and far for the European Union average. Even more critical is the situation in small businesses, where only 12.7% of enterprises were innovatively active, which is the least across the European Union. What does the government specifically propose to improve the situation? The government seeks to increase total investment in R & D. In 2006, businesses reached 1.8% of GDP, in 2008 - 2.5 and by 2010 around 3% of GDP, which is not least the Barcelona target. The country is expected to motivate the business sector, domestic and foreign investment to cover 2/3 investments in R & D. I'm asking you how. What will happen to those companies that won't reach these 2/3s? SWOT analysis has shown the willingness of the company and the government to increase investment in R & D and higher education, not least. However, allow me, the budget is one that does not recognise visible investment in this area. In education and education, creativity, originality, criticalness and autonomy are under-encouraged throughout the school system. These are also the findings of the SWOT analysis, but I add, the amendment of the Basic School Act - remember, in this mandate we adopted it in the National Assembly on the proposal of the Minister of the Beast - on the basis of knowledge verification, the tendency, last but not least, to independence, the creativity of the youngest members of our company, was justified by the Minister of the Beast to reduce costs. Another important issue is the government's tendency to redefine the mission of universities and public research institutions. I want to know how many universities Slovenia needs and, above all, why. Why not finally pursue a new just technical university? Let me finish. At the end of the summary, there are seven measures to be implemented by the Government as a priority in order to achieve the objectives. In compliance with Slovenian legislation, the government is not itself competent to implement these measures, and last but not least the legislature of the National Assembly has warned. Here are the National Assembly, the Ministry, the Council for Science and Technology, the public agency in the field of research and development. Once again, I will refer to the speaker before me, who says that we are all responsible for the implementation of the objectives of the resolution. This was a representative of the government coalition, and I certainly attach it to it, although at least in this part we do not agree with what the government has written in this resolution. We will definitely support the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you very much. He will be the last to present DeSUS's position, Comrade Vice-President Mag. Clavora.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u131	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In our opinion, the motion for a resolution on the national and development programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in September shows the right direction for the development of research activities and for the participation of the economy and science in Slovenia, which is why we support this proposal in the DeSUS Group. Undoubtedly, the field of scientific research cannot go without a strategy. This is a basic document following the strategy for the development of Slovenia, which aims at linking research capacities, activities and potentials in higher education, research institutions and industry into an effective whole that will contribute as much as possible to raising national income in Slovenia. The document is to be adopted for the next four years, including the years when the Lisbon Strategy is also to be implemented in the European Union, which provides in particular that countries should now invest at least 3% of their gross social income in research and development. The motion for a resolution provides that by the end of the decade, 1% and 2% of public R & D shares will be reached and 2% will be reached by the end of the decade. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is essential that this activity ceases to be a cost, but it must be seen as an investment. There is a need to ensure increased investment in research and development, including by the economy, so that a country with financial mechanisms such as tax measures should encourage the business sector to invest more in research and development. The fact is that Slovenia is lagging behind the European Union average in terms of scientific and technological productivity, particularly in the field of highly quoted publications and patents granted, and above all there is a worrying situation in the field of the use of knowledge. In view of this, we believe that it is imperative to adopt measures that follow the quality and effectiveness of research activities, measures that promote the integration of education, research and entrepreneurship and measures that increase the mobility of knowledge, ideas and people in society. We believe that it is necessary to create such conditions in the research sphere in Slovenia in order to approach the European Research Area, which is a key condition for creating a flexible, mobile and researchers-friendly labour market. We expect from the motion for a resolution adopted by Members of the DeSUS, in particular greater materialisation of the results and better achievement of the objectives in cooperation with researchers, either at universities or at institutes and the economy. This also follows the European recommendation on creating a friendly and mobile environment for research. It is essential, in particular, that we encourage cooperation in the field of science and technology with the economy, with individual companies, and that DeSUS Members are particularly reminded of greater support for social and humanistic research, despite the fact that this scientific and research area is not equally capable of economic cooperation, but, of course, it is possible to examine in this direction all those social impacts that promote and cause problems for a society. In view of the above, this document will be supported by the DeSUS Group as it contains specific commitments to achieve the objectives set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the motion for a resolution. And the first one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Within the time I have at my disposal, a few words. By carefully reading the resolution, it can be clearly understood its strategic objective or purpose, which is to create and transfer internationally accessible knowledge to public benefit and economic exploitation, and to strengthen the capacity to operate technological progress as the main source of increasing national competitiveness and the social and human progress of its environment. The resolution follows the quality and effectiveness of research activities in Slovenia, promotes the integration of education, research and entrepreneurship and increases the mobility of knowledge, ideas and people in society. The resolution also identifies areas that are particularly perspective for Slovenia. These are the ones that allow for a deeper knowledge, a breakthrough in science and economic efficiency based on the values of human society. And those who directly support faster development of bearable economic areas such as information and communication technologies, advanced synthetic, metal and non-metallic materials and nanotechnology, complex systems and innovative technologies, technologies for sustainable economy and health and life science. I will be pleased to support this resolution, this document, today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Again, we have the same problem as usual that MEPs and Members do not log out, so I have to watch who and who is not. And if my eyes don't deceive me, it's Mr. Jerovšek's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that we have before us a programme document, a resolution on a national development and research programme for which both the opposition and coalition parties declare that they will support it and that it is needed, useful and, finally, well-assembled. As far as I'm concerned, it seems to me that such a doctrinal document could be shorter, in which I see the only flaw. Of course, in this case, even those critical comments that have been made here and which have also been made on the home committee would be multiplied and underlined. In fact, I do not think it is an issue that this programme highlights, in particular, nature and technical science and that humanities and social sciences are essentially neglected. I say this on the basis that science is universal and that we also refer here to the universal values on the basis of which science is to be developed, and then, on the basis of scientific and research achievements, this is transferred to the more applied sphere, to the economy. There is also a false dilemma on the basis of this document whether the relationship between fundamental and applied sciences is properly differentiated. I think we are talking about a document that is general and which fortunately emphasises that this document puts research and development at the heart of the development of Slovenia. And this is fundamental and, of course, I also think that if we look at this document at a symbolic level, we should not look at it pessimistically, we should not be questioning pessimistic or pessimistic about how we should approach science, research activities. I almost disagree with the fact that we would somehow mark him or look at him through the prism, as the committee stressed that we should look through Socrates's saying: I know I don't know anything. I believe that Slovenian science, Slovenian scientists, developers know much and will develop much. And that there is a significantly better symbolism that might be the motto of this document: I mean, so I am - the Descartes River. I am sure that Slovenian scientists, researchers, have thought a lot so far, have researched that they have not always had favourable conditions for their participation and their research. And I believe that on the basis of this document, which puts research and development at the heart of the development of Slovenia, the foundations on which Slovenian science and consequently the development of Slovenia will be accelerated will be achieved. When I say that I do not agree with the neglect of social science and humanities in this programme, I must point out that today's critics who say so do not recognize the incredible underestimation of technical sciences in the past period, that the part of the policy that today expresses these criticisms has, in fact, been encouraged by Slovenia's extremely renowned authority in the field of science and research during the period when they themselves set the development and priorities in the field of science and development, to become a technological colony in certain areas of technology and science. I believe in the range of Slovenian researchers, scientists and developers, and I am convinced that with such a state that Slovenia is permanently defined as a technological colony, we cannot accept and that, on the basis of this programme, those working in the field of development in Slovenia will also contribute to faster development of Slovenia. And because I say it is a document that has universal value, and with this document we promote the environment, we work for a more science-friendly environment, and I hope that this better environment will bear fruit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you very much. My word to Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say some of my views, perhaps more impressions when reading the resolution. It seems to me that this motion for a resolution is fundamentally appropriate and that a document with all its advantages is basically well-directed, but also, of course, the weaknesses which accompany such types of document. A month ago, we also considered a similar document, the Resolution of the National Environmental Protection Programme, which we also stated was a good document, but we know that it is as good as text, does not in any way mean that it will also be translated into reality and that it will also become part of our improved future, if I may say so. We must be aware of this, of course, by the Minister, and must know that this is only a document and that there is still a lot to be done, which is or is not linked to the document itself. As far as the objectives are concerned, because the objectives of such documents are important, it is difficult to say, in fact, that these objectives could be opposed, could be added and nothing could be wrong and could be taken away and again nothing wrong with them, but the Minister has taken these objectives into account in the document as he has, and has largely followed the example of the European Union, outlined these priorities, which are similar to the Sixth Framework Programme. What can we say about this? Always we, when we exclude certain areas and say that we will pay more attention to them, based on the experience I have, always get caught up in certain scepticisms, doubts and think of the famous sentence from Walter's Candida - "With the help of doctors, his health has deteriorated rapidly." In short, by choosing priorities, I hope that these disciplines will not get worse than they are now, or better. It's one of those, say, healthy skeptic postures, but I think you knew the point of choosing from it. I think that, of course, in Slovenia as small state communities and society, it is impossible to expect that all areas will be equally strongly developed in the natural, technical, medical, social and spiritual fields, and that will certainly not be the case. Of course, it's very, very much here now, I would say, an important question, how do we know what those areas are, which should be more developed. I think we know, I think, that there is a limited share of state interventionism here, that we have some random, some inherited, some partial coincidence, partly conscious. For example, the fact is that we have a strong telecommunications industry and that we have much to do with the development of telecommunications, electronic telecommunications and work in these areas. Slovenia belongs, Mr Jerovšek, when we were a colony, Slovenia belongs to between 10 and 12 countries in the world that are today able to produce, implement and develop the most modern forms of electronic communication, devices, etc. This is very important. And maybe we won't be on space technology - never at this level, never. I think it is more a matter of coincidences, including some personal decisions of scientists, who manage to develop some areas so strongly and that sound government policy in this area should be careful not to undermine any ideas and initiatives and research areas that develop for some third reasons, but not for reasons of state planning and planning. I think it's a very important aspect. As far as the document is concerned, the analysis of the situation for this document is appropriate, but it might also make sense in any other document to take it more seriously, more in-depth, advantages and weaknesses in this area, including in some historical perspective, and comparable, but I must admit, for these purposes this is appropriate and good. The second point I would like to say is the question of the usefulness of transferring knowledge and knowledge from the research field to the economic field. We get these stories on some waves every 10 and 15 years. We've already had this story, the minister will know this story better than I do, even though I know it well, how in the 1970s they've driven away science, that it's not useful enough to adapt, we've invented targeted education. I just hope that the Bologna process is not a modern version of this targeted education, I hope, etc. And then it stops a bit and is restored again. [[..]] It is my opinion that this process is, in fact, if we were to literally direct science to a direct transfer to the economy, we would always miss economic development and technological development. I remember an article from Economist two months ago where an Economist, a liberal newspaper, was very entrepreneurship-oriented to understand, says that if Bell's and other laboratories applied the same research rules as when they discovered the laser beam, they would never have discovered it. Because when they found out, they didn't know what to do with it. And that's the fact that something is being discovered, and then we don't know what's going to happen - in the history of science we know a lot of such cases and we need to be aware of that and we need to have good in our heads. Of course, I support the fact that there are as many enquiries as possible from the economy in the research sector, of course I support that companies open research laboratories and groups and connect them networked - as we already have in Slovenia - as successfully as possible, I hope it will be even more. All of this is fine, but do not ignore: the greatest discoveries have occurred as accidental consequences. And that's what matters. Even the number of useful matters today is in fact the obvious or unwitting consequences of something else. I think it's very important. The story we've heard today, I don't think we're going to get too far into this story about what's more important, or sociology, or nature, or one or the other - that's the story that's lane. These divisions between once spiritual and natural sciences are now more or less exceeded from the old German tradition, perhaps for the subject of historical doctorates or something like that. I think science is a different structure today. The most structured example is the science of life, "life find", which integrates such social, biological and other elements. What did social science need, what could it do? I'd remember some. In the 1980s, when sociologists held a series of debates - and were not sponsored, they were not research money for this - civil society, this debate had a profound impact on democratic transformation in Slovenia. And their utility was relatively high. You can't deny everything that's been done here. That's why I'd like to warn you again. If we go to this debate, what is more important, after all, nothing will matter to us except political prestige. Once again, with these amendments or additions that have been today, I think we can support this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would like to express my satisfaction at today's adoption of this national research and development programme. I'd like to express my pleasure in two ways. It is a first pleasure that we will be able to adopt this national research and development programme in a consensus, at least that is how it was understood today from all the views presented by the delegations. This seems of great importance to me, as it is to be aware that what is also said to be knowledge and creativity for Slovenia could be a major driver of growth and employment in the future, which is also one of the fundamental objectives set out in the Lisbon Strategy. This is also reflected in the strategy of the national development programme in Slovenia. It is also gratifying that we are somehow assessing together that Slovenia has certain shortcomings and is failing in certain areas, that we together can somehow agree on these failures and that we are taking joint measures to address these failures in particular areas of Slovenia. With this satisfaction, I would also like to express my satisfaction in the second direction with the adoption of this resolution. In particular, this second direction is that this resolution will become, Mr Minister, also somehow binding interdisciplinary, cross-sectoral behaviour, not only in relation to your ministry, but primarily to the actions of your ministry, but also to the conduct of this government. Therefore, these governments, which, with all measures, will also, as set out in this document, pay general attention to this objective, to the realization of this objective. And, of course, this document sets a framework for your ministry as well. Why am I saying this? For when we read this content, we can see that we have some facts written down in the writing of the key objectives and the key drivers of this programme, some guidance that I have to assess that we have been able to conclude in the last period that they are not going in the direction of these objectives, at least what has been taken in the framework of the legislative proposals in your ministry. Here, in particular, I assess this decision, which we have taken by amending the law on research and development activities, to reduce the impact and share of the boards of public research institutions, where we are actually assigning them, instead of somewhat equivalent tripartite employment, a kind of minor role, where we are giving them, with a minimum approach, a kind of satisfaction of artistic impression, while their role will actually have more or less statistical impact. Of course, that is why I think it is very important for us to be able to achieve the very important objective set out here, which means increasing investment in the economy. If we want to achieve this goal, of course, we will also have to give concrete signs in concrete activities, in concrete actions, in individual laws that will give the implementing documents of this resolution, that we are serious about what we have written here. That it will not be so good that we will have an economy as partners only when we want them to achieve financial participation in the value of 2% of the social product. Of course, this is another very important area where we are talking about the priorities set out in the R & D area, in order to align their development priorities with the economy in their business plans also with those that we have written down. The second area I would like to mention is - and it is clearly stated in this document - that we want to be among the institutions, among which we also define higher education institutions, universities and others, so colleges - we have written down that in the analysis that was made, you are somehow assessing that we have a trend in reducing the quality of these institutions. Of course, we can also read that you want the quality of these institutions to rise and, among other things, you state that the international competitiveness of universities will require the provision of internationally comparable habilitation criteria as one of the best marriages for productive action. Here we can see, even as we refer to it in this document, that it is somehow consistent with the reform proposals that there is an initiative in Slovenia to create seven to ten universities. In doing so, I am assessing whether there will be an unimaginable enlargement to ask how to ensure this important, key element of ensuring the quality of these educational institutions, as a result of research institutions and together in a three-partite quality relationship in the economy, high-tech, innovative cells, for example, in individual companies. And it seems to me that if we want to implement the criteria of high-quality habilitation procedures, then we cannot make public messages that the professional council for higher education can habilize an individual within the framework of a private faculty in the titles of a professor, but when we look at these references, we can question the objective where we say that the threshold of high-quoted publications should be raised from 0.5 to 1.2. Of course, the messages here are bad. Bad messages in terms of whether we are serious when talking about quality assurance. That is why, Minister, when this resolution is adopted, I am pleased that this framework, which we will certainly confirm today with the majority consensus, will allow you to have arguments that you will be able to draw attention to the deviations that could take place on the left or on the right, around the bend or after the shortcut, on average. It is very important when we by these examples or by preventing such acts give real support to what we have written in this resolution. For the time in which all these goals will have to be fulfilled is very short. The ambition of this resolution is great, and, Mr Minister, I will vote in favour of this resolution, with only a few concerns which I have already presented to you on the Committee. I wish, Mr Minister, that the success of managing your portfolio with the success of convincing the reasons for this resolution in the government will be one way or another as successful as you are in your research field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u141	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! At the meeting of the home working body, almost the most debates were devoted to Chapter 4.6 and 4.6.1, namely to improving the control system and redefining the mission of universities and public research institutions. I think it would be very good for the quality of the adoption of acts if, at the same time as the adoption of the national research programme, the national higher education programme was also adopted, as these two activities in the implementation of the programmes are complemented. That's why it can happen even when a person writes these things to go at the expense of each other, what I think happened in this case. That is why we tried to delete certain things on the committee, which seemed to us to be a little misplaced or somewhat contrary to Article 58 of the Constitution, which speaks of the university. Above all, I would like to draw on the following steps to improve the system of control: redefining the mission and vision of the university. To speak of this in a national research programme seems blasphemous and would be better if it were deleted from this text and would be discussed in the National Higher Education Programme, but this action has failed to accept this as an amendment to the Committee. And even more so, I don't think it makes any sense. In Chapter 4.6.1, which speaks of redefining the mission of universities and public research institutions, I quote: "University and public research institutes shall produce within the time limit prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia their specific missions submitted to the Minister responsible for Science and Higher Education." and then on, the Minister says that he proposes amendments to missions and visions to the science and technological development council and to the higher education council, which will hold a public debate and make proposals for the implementation of the mission. One sentence before that also states that the government will consider the need to reorganise institutions, including the creation of a technical university. And there's a rabbit in that bush. I think that in this part the national research programme is written on the hands of people who occupy certain spaces. If you've seen it, one of those who will have the last word in this redefinition will be the world for higher education. We know who the President of the Higher Education Council is, we know that it is not only the President of the Higher Education Council, but it is also the founder of certain higher education institutions or that a new Faculty of Law was established during its presidency. We know that he is the one who finally accepts or signs after what he has already mentioned, the act on the classification of professors as titles. And that's where they get mixed up. Then, also in the case at hand, Minister Virant, who, according to the criteria of public universities, would not be sufficient to meet the criteria for election as a special professor, but here he did. And if we look at all the actors that I have listed now, the President of the Higher Education Council, then the Minister and everything else, they are connected, and if you look, Mr. Secretary-General, what you wrote, we objected to being accepted, "including the creation of a technical university". What does that mean? Whether the Technical University of Primorska will be created in these four years or the University of Ljubljana will fall apart, which is the only possible, into different pieces, separating the Technical University from this, whether it will be private technical universities, or whether the University of Maribor will fall apart in at least two parts and have one technical university or something similar. So it seems to me that it is not good to write these things into a national programme, Mr. Secretary-General. When we implement this national programme as an opposition, we will look at you firmly under our fingertips and, of course, we will try to punish any reckless action from this with the possibilities we have. This ice here is very thin, it can bring into the world, but if it goes into customeristic waters, it can bring us in a worse position than we've ever been. I will support this national programme myself, Mr Minister, and a lot of work has been invested in it and would not be the right people in this area if they were satisfied with it. Research spirit or whatever you want - we must not be satisfied with any solution, but let us be pleased that we will accept these things and always keep ahead of you when you go as one of the most responsible in the implementation of this national research programme, that we will, of course, play our part as the opposition. I wish you good luck, good luck, good luck, and I expect from you now that we accept these things so that you will really achieve your goals and that you will be successful in the implementation of the national programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much. My word, Master Stebeta.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. Perhaps I would first respond to these thinking on prioritizing areas. Why - or the opinion of some of the debaters was that only the scientific and technical fields were highlighted. On page 19 in the material and also in the introduction, it is well said that some priority areas should also be fundamental: knowledge about man and society, the development of understanding of humanity and national identity and visibility, the improvement of the efficiency of the country and the development of modern democratic society and the understanding and management of social processes and so on, and the national security and enforcement of Slovenia in the international space. I remember, two, three years ago, an interesting study was published on the socio-unity elements of the developmental innovation of a particular environment - Adam and the co-authors of the Faculty of Social Sciences, where one very interesting topic of thinking and determining the reasons why "silicon valley" is precisely why not some other area in the United States and elsewhere in the world. The whole essence of the authors' contributions in this analysis is that it is of great importance to the quality of the cultural and socio-social quality of an environment, which ultimately decides on innovative performance in technical and natural fields. Of course, we must be aware that that true creation is in the field of science and technology. Without an appropriate social environment, which must also be explored and identified in advance and then properly prepared in what will be supported by public resources, social and humanistic sciences will also come into force here. I think that the emphasis is appropriate in the resolution that it is given beyond the areas of technical and natural science. The other thing that's kind of bugging me is the warning and some fear that it feels for it to be and that it's supposed to be the establishment of new universities, 7 to 10 and, I don't know, how many. Slovenia has become an open country by entering the EU. Suddenly, a huge number of universities have emerged in Slovenia in a way that everyone can go to study wherever they want. Unfortunately, it is difficult for Europe and Slovenia to retain the most capable students so as not to study elsewhere, in England and in America. Just by students studying in your environment, you can easily obtain such capable individuals. This makes it more of a question of how to prevent, with the quality of study and with the quality of our universities - or also become competitive in this area. Here, because most of these universities, or all of them, if I'm not mistaken, will be established by non-disclosure means and will be payable. This is said to be primarily a decision on which university is better or worse, and this will also force universities into good programmes and good implementation of studies, especially the economy. Because the economy will be a likely co-funder, the economy will employ staff from these universities and the economy will assign, conclude and enable these universities to do so. Somehow I did not understand and somehow do not recognize from the text of the resolution where there would be some negative or bad or inappropriate right and destructive elements in this resolution. The debater didn't even say what it was. I think that our main problem of Slovenian society is how to increase the number of schooling people, how already in kindergarten, primary school and in all the further stages of the study to introduce critical learning, critical debate already during learning and how to achieve that significantly more people will study, and then, of course, what escapes us the most in the present situation, that only one fifth of the economy today is innovatively dead. How to turn this on those 80% will be a big deal and a big task for both the ministries and all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Let me say because of the easier timing that we have three more debaters, then the minister, if he wants to say anything, and if he wants to share the rest of the time, so that, according to my assessment, there will be a vote today between four and a half hours, so that you can tell the other colleagues and colleagues. Now I invite Dr. Slavinec to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Dr. Pavlich. Dear Dr. Zupan, Mr. Secretary. I will also support the resolution, the programme for similar reasons, as some of my predecessors have already justified, and I am also adding that when you receive support in the National Assembly, of course, you will also be given a mandate to make it easier for you in the government - and I hope that you will also succeed - to collect and implement all the things written in this document. I am pleased, of course, that the increase in resources allocated to scientific research is envisaged, and I would point out that these resources will still have to be collected and picked up, and therefore this introduction of mine is intended to make it easier for you to refer to the mandate of this National Assembly, which you will likely receive with a large majority. The second is how we can make the most of this money, and how we can make the most of it, so that the objectives set out in this document can be achieved as much as possible. My opinion is sure that it is crucial to know that all the resources that we have are coherently linked here can be science and society, can be economics, institutions and higher education organisations and other levels, and to achieve constructive interference and thus synergies, so that we can really get as many results as possible, to the results that will ensure rapid development for Slovenia. I agree that this document is one of the most important, not only of your ministry, but in general. Well, if we just look around, we can see the importance of science and scientific research and technological progress. Let's remember what our society looked like 1,000 years ago, what it looked like 100 years ago, and what it was that made sure it was what we had today. And it is very important that, to the extent that we can influence, we ensure that over the next 100 years it will be such that it is, to the extent possible, to the extent that it will be, in particular, for the benefit of people. In order to achieve these objectives, there must be multiple strategies, but somehow we must take into account the facts that life in the European Union imposes on us. Here I have in mind mainly the Lisbon and Bologna strategies. The Lisbon Strategy already envisages closer integration with the economy on its basis, but I certainly point out at this point that the application itself will not be sufficient without basic science and it is also necessary to find a suitable link in this area and again in the sense that science will create an environment, an environment that can lead to those discoveries that are then really the product of one natural flow of scientific research. And this environment is very important created by a leader and a leader must be a visionary, one who has a good research sense that can predict the direction in which it is worth exploring and investing, and to which it may not be paid to such an extent. I point out this because my opinion is that such people, especially researchers, are scientists, not politicians. To the greatest extent possible, science and, above all, the directors of research institutes should be protected from politics. And the next thing is a bologna strategy. We have already heard a lot about new universities, in places where I come from, we want them, because in this way we would bring knowledge substantially closer. However, I stress that knowledge needs to be brought closer, not the creation of trade diplomas with borrowed sellers. Such a statement is also due to the earlier statement that these university college programmes will be paid, as what I just said can happen very quickly. And Slovenia has so many and so many inhabitants. It is not to be expected, at least I do not see that on this scale of the country, the inhabitants, the surface and everything else and also other features there would be a lot more influx of foreign students and professors than outflows. So with these resources that we have, which are exposed to a certain balance, we have to work now. And as long as we spread across all borders the number of higher education professors that we will urgently need, unless we borrow them, as I said before, then, of course, this will be known at the level, at the level of the lectures themselves, at the level of the students themselves, and, of course, at the level and competence of the diplomas that these institutions will give. We have a very good example of this in the field of secondary education, high school. All of us who went to high school, like 20 years ago or something like that, and compare it to the situation now, we see that, of course, the high schoolers are of course more, but we can't say that the knowledge of all those on a level like that, for success or for the average successful completion of high school, we had to show -- relatively speaking, of course -- that's when we did. And let me conclude with the traveller in this particular area that I want the resolution to be applied as much as possible, and in particular that it will find space for as much creativity and creativity as possible among young people, who will then be able to apply these lessons as quickly as possible to their careers later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you very much. There's still magic in the word. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I have already indicated in the opinion of the Group that we will support the resolution. This means that I am aware of the importance of the document. However, I am aware that this document is not ideal and that it also contains a number of traps. The Slovenian proverb says it's said twice in the mill. And I'll be trying to explain in the third place where I see problems. Where there is such a sensitive activity as research and development activity related to the assessment of efficiency, usefulness, performance, quality, it often happens that the vats we measure are weak or even false vats. Many times we refer to our conduct, which is limited. And all those who have ever looked elsewhere know that what I know, compared to what I don't know, is for the poppy grain. And that's what my words meant. And with another quote, I'm gonna help myself. Prešeren wrote in one of his famous texts, "that the thirst of your world would not have brought me out of your world was a goly'fi snake." And when he used this Bible example of the fraudulent serpent, he certainly did not mean that he was sorry that he had decided to teach, but that after being taught about certain things, he realized that his way to “the distant China ” was opening up to him. It's like an endless journey. That's what I'm thinking. And everyone who researched knows that any chosen path does not lead to the expected goal. Therefore, there can be a great trap in such a national programme if we measure only by what is measurable and what is effective and what is useful, but not by what may have been known as, I will say, the sleeve, but just as the sleeve helped lead to appropriate, better solutions. I don't mind saying what I was going to say, but it seems to me that you should have told me that you'd understand what I've measured with some words. For I am pained by the vehemently expressed values of what we may not always know well enough to judge fairly. Well, and I understand from the distinguished Dr. Gantar that this dilemma has been overcome for him and that it does not consent to the competition between sociology and nature, because sociology is inherent in the development of human society. The fact is, unfortunately, from this national programme, I am reading cities that prefer certain things and could prove them to you, even where they are written, on pages 18 to 24, tasks that are generally increasingly focused on science and technology and the transfer to the economy. And what I'm worried about is that if only economic success is measured, then we will discuss such things as we discussed earlier in the wine law - so that we can sell wine better, this wine will now be called eminent, sometimes called supreme, we will judge only from the point of view what will be better sold, but not from what is in the interest of our national identity and to whom it is intended in the first place, or to us who live here, or to those who are outside. And here, my reflection will also touch this document that is before us. In fact, on the 40th page of the proposal, not a complementary one, but a proposal, it is also stated that the expert system on humanities as one of the criteria also makes a contribution to the development of the Slovenian professional term. Unfortunately, in the same document, the composers lacked the will or knowledge to find the "spin off" company Slovenian term. And I'll keep going. In April, the Eurocorpus and Euroterms have been abolished or are no longer continuing, two language knowledge bases collected at the time of the adoption of the European acquis, which was created in the Translation, Editorial and Terminology Service of the WHO, and now the language coordination and translation sector says that this is in the domain of the institutions of the European Union. It can, but there is a lot of work put into these two bodies by many experts, linguists, lawyers and damage, because these were generally open or accessible databases, so that we will not upgrade, supplement, complete, and then re-acquaint ourselves with the possibility of our ignorance of what proves to us that we do not name anything in Slovenian because we simply did not try to do so. Of course, there are things that we could also prove as, I would say, inclusion in these texts, and we would also confirm how much we really mean by some of the principle definitions that we find in our documents so often written down and by which we so like to race. Now I would touch just one more area, which I was talking about on my mother's working body, and it seems to me that no one has touched him today, but it is only right that we give him at least a minute. When it comes to the development of human resources, one of the fundamental principles is, of course, a very important principle of equal opportunity. Image or statistics from Slovenia suggest that the proportion of highly educated women is increasing, that the number of graduates exceeds the number of diplomats, that what you wrote in the document is small, and that the proportion of women in the responsible places, although it probably happened in the online circumstances, that there were two Rectors at three universities at the moment. When that happens again, I don't know, I would hope that this situation would take time, but there are other data that doesn't give such optimistic images. Here I see the demands of the Lisbon Strategy and the opening of the possibility of compatibility of professional and family life, but here I must say that this document does not promise any special measures, otherwise it speaks of the need to increase the proportion, and it also says that 2007 will have to introduce education programmes in this direction - and this is exactly what I object to because I think this is already included in school programmes - but there are no concrete measures to encourage women, because often young women are stigmatized to devote too much of their careers and think too little of their primary, for some, social development tasks. However, I would not like only to see women reduced to the level of reproductive tasks in this society. So it seems to me that there is still enough room in this programme to complement it; and I will end now with what seems essential to me yet, if we want to check whether we are successful or not, because there are some doubts as to who is the one who can plan and what politics can do, some doubts or at least limits have already been expressed, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I still think it's a review of the objectives. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u148	Time, time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u149	At the end of the adopted programme, it is too late, in particular because only if you allow it, Mr President, [[...]] [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Then you can have another conversation outside this hall. Dr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to touch on two topics in this debate, which I think are important to our development agreement in Slovenia and beyond. I will start with the European one I mentioned in the opening act. With us in Slovenia, it was very easy to pass the accepted or planned financial perspective there by 2013. We've been very shortsighted about this. I understand and believe that this is also very important, that it is always necessary to calculate in such perspectives exactly how much Slovenia will receive. This has been calculated by all countries. I would like to point out, however, that, for the area covered by my colleague Zupan, it is very important to what extent Europe will awaken itself in this area and whether it will indeed be sufficient resources and will be able to reflect on our joint European project. Our joint project is not only a Slovenian project, but it must be, even if we think very selfishly, very narrowly Slovenian, in our minds always what Europe will do, what Europe will achieve for us to live better, even if we are not interested in anything else. Europe has also decided to do so with our assistance, while we have strongly assisted in such a policy, in order to reduce the share of funds for this area by more than 40% compared to the original, say, the 'Prodi proposal'. We quietly believed that it was none of our business, and we were concerned. We are concerned at the most elementary level, the one that everyone understands, at the level of the amount of money that Slovenia will receive. If growth at European level is lower - and in these measures will be lower - than it should be in the coming years, especially when this decade is overrun, then the resources we will share will be smaller. Then 1% of the GDP that Europe will share through European programmes will actually be less than it would be if GDP growth in Europe, for example, increased by 1 percentage point each year. Why am I pointing this out? Because this will be directly known in Slovenia and on the other hand, because, ladies and gentlemen, this will cause instability in the development of Europe as a whole, as this will increase internal tensions and reduce our common opportunities. It's a social thought, I admit it, but I'm afraid we need it if we want to have a little more scrutiny of what we're getting ourselves into. When I speak alone - and this is the second point I wanted to touch - that this national programme needs to be added to the future, to come in a year, I don't know, a year and a half by upgrading this programme and really taking it into account that it is a whole spectrum of social sub-systems, not only for the economic meaning of this word, when we are talking about the possibilities for quality of life and also for competitiveness, then I would like to point out that, for example, it is possible to save on the effective use of social assistance and to increase justice only if, as it is necessary to improve the car's functioning, we find answers to technical questions here, we find answers to questions that we can achieve with which mechanisms we can achieve this. That this is the case with the car - we all understand that this is the case with the operation when something doesn't work with the body - we all understand, we move or we don't pay enough attention when we ask ourselves how conflicts in society are resolved. One war itself does so much damage, it stops so good in people's lives that we can't imagine until we're done, but the elimination of conflicts is not something we do just like that - of course it takes a few feelings, including some happiness - but we also need to have a lot of knowledge, very concrete, developmental projects that talk about how such issues are handled, how to manage, for example, the issue of transition from one type of economy - for example, up in the Mežiška Valley or at the entire Koroška end or anywhere else - is a serious professional question, just as serious as the question of what is the genome and with anything else in other areas. About this, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking and I think it is good to take this seriously. This is a postmodern concept of the development of society, but this is what we're going to do. Returning to an industrial place, where we think everything else is just a burden, is not the concept of life we want to live.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you very much. There are no more Members and Members who would like to discuss on the list, so I give the floor to Dr Zupan, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, thank you very much, honourable Members and Members. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for all the words of support, I take this very seriously, and we also take all the warnings for responsibility seriously and, of course, we also know that it is only a document and that it becomes a decent document or a decent reality only after four, five years on the basis of the results evaluated. If the results are poor, the document will become bad, regardless of the fact that nothing will change, of course. Most of the criticism, or most of the debate, I think it went to the point where humanities and social sciences, if given together, on the one hand, and on the other hand, are not equally represented in some respects. I would like to point out here, if you read well, on page 11, we have two chapters, two areas and if each of the two areas has five points and the first five points relate to science and technology, and the other five points refer to social and humanities. So in the document, in the summary, of course, it's both. But it is true and here we would somehow combine the thoughts of all the three Members who were from different parliamentary groups, where it is said on the one hand that, of course, separation on these classical behaviours makes no sense, on the other hand, that it is. I think, of course, that this synthesis is possible, such as Europe - so we are united in diversity. The fact is that science today is intertwined, that it is very difficult to separate a problem from social science or technology, because of course we are working together, and therefore, of course, we believe that there is a great deal of socialism and humanities in technology as well, of course, we want this interdisciplinary, interinstitutional and interstate cooperation. We'll support that. As far as quality criteria are concerned, here, I agree, it is extremely strong, because in Slovenia not only in the field of science, this concept of quality has been in some sense used to achieve the objectives today and that is why we will work hard and always try in all areas - it is not just for today that we actually give quality to that omen, regardless of all those political, religious, colourful, any labels. We would like to, but that we are all aware that quality is indeed quality, regardless of what kind of person is behind doing a quality, cultural, scientific, economic or whatever, sports, activity. Sports may be the easiest thing to measure. But I would point out something else, the quality problem needs to be realized; and here too was a mistake - and we will try to fix it - that in science, if we look at the whole circle now, the quality criteria are not everywhere the same. It is here that we must not be obsessed with measuring everything, i.e. by quantifying everything, and here in the coming years we will try this whole area in some sense, at least in principle, to divide into areas where quotations can be more precisely measured by scientific articles into other areas, which are more technical or we call it professionally oriented, where there are extremely important achievements, transfers, patents. Even if we go to the legal field or to the economic field, successful businesses, successful economic governance, the number of decisions of the Constitutional Court, the number of laws that have been presented, the number of them all, these are exceptional achievements in the field of expertise, and we must also measure this, although these are not the same criteria. And in the field of humanities - this is the third area - of national knowledge, where quality is measured in a different way. For all three, however, they are also measured with excellent publications and so forth. So we have to take this into account if we really want to talk about quality. In the end, I would mention perhaps this, as far as Slovenian is concerned, that I am happy with any warning concerning Slovenian. I have to admit that at the time we were doing this, I was not careful enough, and the very word SWOT analysis really disturbed me, and that would have led to a calm PSMG analysis, because these are advantages, weaknesses, opportunities and threats, so we can use this peacefully. Once again, I thank you for your support and I promise that we will make sure that things are going in the same direction as they are. I therefore take all your warnings seriously and hope that we will continue to be able to participate in the dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you very much. There are six minutes left, and if you'll allow me, I tend to close the debate, because if you turn in more than six, it would be pointless to share the seconds. May I consider your silence a consent? Thank you very much. Since no amendments have been tabled to the resolution on the national programme, the assembly on the motion for a resolution will decide today, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, in the framework of the vote, at 4:15 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u155	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we proceed to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Again, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card, in which case the vote may take place. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the establishment of their areas, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, it is not possible to make an application for an amendment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. Mr. Bajc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will explain my vote on the law under consideration. Today, I was able to reach a newspaper by accident, which also says the following - this is evidenced by the document from the very beginning of the establishment of the cadastral congregation in 1850, the Teharcans wrote in protest. I would not like to participate in the precedent of the national assembly when the law punishes what the congregation cannot agree on. I will therefore oppose the proposal and vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues! I must say, I will not support this law, which is simply ridiculous, illegal, unconstitutional. That Parliament is solving inter-neighbourly, inter-agency problems here, in this place, if we have perhaps some other instruments, and the court and we are solving through all things, this is simply inappropriate, unhygienic and I will certainly not support this story. If there are problems, then it would be right for a fellow mayor to resolve it at the level of two municipalities, if not, elsewhere. And, of course, to abuse the position of a member of the ruling coalition and the mayor and thus to get to some property that is not yours is literally ridiculous, unacceptable, unconstitutional. And everyone will laugh at us if we support this marriage. Tomorrow we will have a whole series of new and new problems, inter-ethnic imbalances or disagreements, because such matters are very simple in Slovenia. And then we'll all come to Parliament together, and you solve the problem here, in this place, not on the medo-cultural level. In short, abuse of position, indiscretion and illegality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I'm going to be very brief. I will not support this law, of course I will vote against it. For the first time, because I think that when it comes to territorial disputes or the redistribution of territory between the municipalities, the National Assembly can support this when it is done in agreement and agreement. That's not the case. Secondly, the second reason given here is an insufferable, politically harmful tendency for me to use and abuse the position of a Member and, of course, the position of a party colleague who runs this committee and force a positive position and thus come up with such a proposal. That's not how it works. Gentlemen, we have tried to teach you a lesson from the fact that if you are in power, you also need to limit yourself, not to use everything you have at your disposal, but to rationally limit yourself. Mr. Rupar, you will have the opportunity to speak when I am silent. Okay? Yes, you speak, and therefore I believe that this law must also be rejected in order for all those who think that when they are in power, they can use all the levers, legal or illegal, to do whatever they like and to do whatever they like. That is why, of course, I will strongly vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Master Žnidaršič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, our Group of Members will, of course, support the Government's position and vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It is clear, therefore, that I will not support this law mainly from a completely simple point of view, not only because my predecessors have said so, but because we have received clear warnings or a clear position from both the government and the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly. I think that the National Assembly, the institution of the National Assembly, cannot go through these legal, clear legal positions and I think that this would be an established strange practice in this National Assembly, so that such and similar laws can be adopted because someone sits in these benches and abuses the position of either Member or Mayor, or any other of us who have different different interests, does not necessarily mean that they are always mayors, as we like to say. Of course, each of us has certain interests, but the realization of these interests must be made lawful, with such means as are in accordance with the law and rules of the game in this country. So probably a lot of people remember from the past, at least one such case has already been filed, one such law has already been introduced before I don't know exactly because I didn't go looking for it. I think this is about four years ago, or something like that, when one of the former fellow Members also introduced a very similar, very similar law, and at the beginning of his journey, of course, he found his way into the drawer, not in the parliamentary bench. I think that it is not to be inconclusive, that this is a similar case on the route of the municipalities of Šostjanj and Velenje. Well, my time is up, I'll vote against it, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. In my own name, I will vote against it myself, for about the same reasons as the speakers, who went against that law. However, I would like to point out that about one month ago, the National Assembly had the opportunity to discuss the compatibility of the parliamentary mayoral function. At that time, it was shown that abuse could not occur, and today all those involved in abuse should be taught and again given the opportunity to make a decision to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I'll press the quorum key. Why? True, such things are not resolved in the National Assembly. But it is also true that those yesterday were nothing different and it is not fair and it is not fair that today, but I will not name anyone, with one, or the other, or the third party, all do fine, how this is not right, how this is not aesthetic, how this is not wise, but yesterday's story, and the story at the local self-government and regional development meeting was just such a trade where everyone invented his congregation at the expense of collecting political, material or other goods. And it's not fair and it's not fair to separate white from white in this national council. It's not right, it's really wrong that this is being resolved here, and it's not exactly what happened yesterday, but maybe today about what we're going to talk about later, so my voice will be quorum.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u170	I will vote against such a law because the bill is not in accordance with the Constitution, it is not in accordance with the law, it is against the will of the government and it will be unusual if it is voted because it can only be voted by the largest government party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u171	Mr. Juban, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u172	A referendum for the municipality of Ankara was launched in such a store yesterday, where the story of the enforcement of the law can be repeated because the mayor of Koper will achieve in good relations with the ruling party that we will call a similar story that Luka Koper of the Municipality of Ankaran will move back to the municipality of Koper, because this is a conflict between the two mayors of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party, I would leave it to you to decide where it will fall and it will fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I will not support such a proposal for the following reasons. For the first time because it is contrary to the legislation in force. Secondly, because the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly gave a negative opinion. Thirdly, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a rejection of this proposal. Fourthly because it would be very embarrassing if what happened to us yesterday in the vote of the congregations happened again today. And anyone who does not know the situation, honourable Members and Members of the coalition, especially from the SDS, will be very embarrassed to have the reputation of this house today, because your fellow Member has passed this law past the coalition, in spite of the opinion of the legislature and the government, this bill will be supported. And if today the company bears the name of Storera Stil, which stands in the area of the Catastrian municipality of Teharje, then because of the name of the factory you cannot be as powerful and vote us as bulldozers in the National Assembly, following the opinion of the government and the legislative and legal service. I agree that an individual may have a different position. After all, the fellow Member who introduced this law was elected not only in the congregation of Storé but also in the congregation of Celje. It is therefore necessary to follow the full interests of the region, not just one congregation. And I'm sure those voters from the Celje Congregation and from that region will know for sure whether a Member coming from one region [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , acting in accordance with the law and taking into account [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u175	_Other Organiser [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u176	and takes into account both the rule of law and the opinion of the Government and some other segments that are normal to democracy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Alone and my fellow Members in the parliamentary group, although we have hesitated until this debate, including yesterday, how we would decide today, but today we have decided to vote against this law for three reasons. We have repeatedly warned that a coalition should collide and speak one language in this national assembly. We cannot support laws or proposals against which the government opposes the rule of law. Last but not least, it's an illustrative classic case of abuse of the discussion we had a month ago. I recall myself being critical of this speaker until the abuse of dual functions in this national assembly, the MP and the mayor or the MP and the mayor. And today we have such a classic case. We had a sewer a month ago. We have a congregation today. Tomorrow, I don't know what we're gonna have. Therefore, once again, we will vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u180	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! So it seems to me that in about 24 hours I would travel time back, the same story, time travel; a little different, but I see it that way. Given that we have yesterday's experience, which is in some way a precedent, I would say: let's take this matter up with Mr Jazbec, and then we will subsequently amend the law so that the matter will be harmonised - because everything can be done as it is seen. As far as the name Storera is concerned, this is a full name, why it happened, we should investigate. But I think we have a better case. Like the TAM factory, remember her probably never been here, she's always been there. How would we catch that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am embarrassed whether I should abstain in this vote or vote against it, as it would suggest, to vote, given that I am usually trying to be a legalist. My main concern is that I am surprised that the ruling coalition is not capable of limiting its power and respecting its laws. I'm especially surprised by the SLS, which had no reservations, just like all my fellow Members, when we declared the epicontinental belt, but we didn't have one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u183	Mr. Skull, please, not the controversy, the explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u184	I'm explaining. We are, for example, the National Assembly has declared an epicontinental belt, and there has not even been a certain border with Croatia. At this point, however, everyone wonders if part of the courtyard of one factory is being moved from one congregation to another. Try to remember how you voted back a little while ago and perhaps your conscience will be less than hell.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Dr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Dear Members! I'll do it myself. Apparently it's some kind of conflict between coalition parties, some kind of coalition conflict, and I think I have to say, it's kind of fun. This coalition would like to carry out structural reforms, but there can be no deal around a single yard. By leaving this decision to you, we are confident that you will act responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Surely I will not support such derogations from democracy or support something that happens when someone’s power is clouded, so to speak, by everything given to him in this world. But not because of the conflict between the two coalition parties, but because this house has to maintain dignity, regardless of whether one is unable to tame itself, as democracy tells it. And in such a case, it is normal for you to maintain your dignity and decide in accordance with what the Constitution commands us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 28. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 28.]] I understand that the law has not been passed. We continue with the adjourned 3rd item of the agenda to consider the proposal for a law amending the Local Elections Act, a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We have tabled amendments to Articles 1 and 2. To Article 1, point 1 and point 2. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 1(1). If this amendment is adopted, then the amendment under point 2 is irrelevant. If not adopted, however, the amendment of the same applicants becomes irrelevant. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. I'm sorry, I have a broken finger and I'm afraid to push too hard. Sorry. There are 68 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 21. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the amendment under point 1 to Article 1 has been adopted. With this, I have already warned you that the amendment under point 2 is irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 2(1). In the event that this amendment is adopted, the amendment referred to in point 2 shall be immaterial. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 36. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 2(2). We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 17. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates or do they intend to table an amendment to these articles? Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u190	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, I declare that we will both table an amendment to Article 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u191	Do you have an amendment ready? Then we'll schedule a brief five-minute break to reproduce the amendment and get it on the bench. I'm adjourning the session. We'll resume in 10 minutes at 4:50.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u192	Dear Members and Members! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group has tabled two amendments, but has withdrawn them and is preparing a new one. I therefore suggest that we conclude this item and continue the third hearing on Tuesday, following the end of the last item. This concludes this agenda item. Since I ordered a break before 4:15, I'll wait three minutes. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal for a wine law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We have two amendments, namely Article 43 of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, and Article 56 of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. In doing so, I remind you that if the first amendment to Article 43 is not adopted, the amendment to Article 56 will become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 43. We're voting. There were 64 votes in favour and 52 in favour against 7. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 56. We're voting. There were 64 votes in favour and 56 in favour against 4. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u193	On behalf of the Government, I propose that the third hearing be held at this meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-16-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 69 Members and Members voted in favour of 52 against 11. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law on Tuesday 20 December 2005, following the conclusion of the final item of the agenda of this meeting. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft resolution on the national research and development programme for the period 2006-2010. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary motion for a resolution, we are moving on to a resolution on the National Research Programme for the period 2006-2010. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the resolution would be inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 67 in favour against no one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to be resumed on Monday 19 December at 10 a.m. Good night!
