ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 152 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 110 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Emilia Krstic, Milos Aligrudić, Milica Gavrilović, Dragan Šormaz, Dusan Proroković, Milutin Svetović, Zeljko Tomic and Djordje Cukvas. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, which was convened at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Sixth Extraordinary Session with the established agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law on bankruptcy, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a law on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law on value added tax, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. Proposal for a Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 8. Proposal for a law on gambling, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 9. Proposal for a drug and medical law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 10. Proposal for a Energy Law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 11. The draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Branislav Ristivojevic, based on Articles 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on the draft bankruptcy law and the draft law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia (1st and 2nd points of the agenda). Does MP Branislav Ristivojevic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Four out of 123 MPs voted for 119. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal because there was no voting quorum. The quorum for work is 84, to vote 126. Since it is proposed that the 7th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance and the 8th Point of the Agenda - The draft law on gambling be considered by an emergency procedure, the committees responsible, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports during the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a SECURAL PROCEDURE (principles) You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Veroljub Arsic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Natasa Jovanovic, Branislav Blažić, Milorad Mirčić, Branislav Rankic, Petar Jojic, Vjerica Radeta, Milomir Minić, Zarko Obradović, Jovan Todorovic and Jovan Palalic. At a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Jovan Palalic withdrew amendments submitted to members 185 and 186. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. Since the total time of debate in the principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: SRS – one hour, 38 minutes and 24 seconds, DSS – one hour, three minutes and 36 seconds; DS-Boris Tadic – 44 minutes and 24 seconds; G17 plus - 37 minutes and 12 seconds; SP-New Serbia – 26 minutes and 24 seconds; SPS – 26 minutes and 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs, by five minutes on the basis of Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4575	Dear President, ladies of honor and honourable MPs, I shall say in a few short lines what is offered by this law. We all know the state of Serbia's economy; one of the key problems is bankruptcy and there are undivided opinions that the Serbian economy has sunk into bankruptcy. The problems were on the normative agenda, not good enough regulation, not good enough work by judges and bankruptcy managers. This is the first step to regulate this matter and ensure the better functioning of our economy. You have before you a modern law, adapted to international regulations, which should remove the legal inadequacy of the previous law. It consistently shows that the bankruptcy procedure takes as long as possible, to protect the interests of the creditors and to ensure that they can participate properly in the process. The proposal for a new law lays down the conditions for the initiation and implementation of bankruptcy, the new authorities and the new legal institutes of bankruptcy proceedings are established. A change was made and a precise distinction was made between the position and the authority of the bankruptcy council, the bankruptcy judge and the bankruptcy manager. What may be most important in this law – an important change has been made, so that the court is now merely making decisions and the affairs of managing the procedure itself and making business decisions are given into jurisdiction to the bankruptcy manager. The central place in the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings belongs to the bankruptcy judge. He controls the work of a bankruptcy manager and makes the most important decisions in the process. The control of the legality of his work is done in bankruptcy, decides to launch a bankruptcy procedure and determines the existence of reasons for the launch of bankruptcy and appoints and resolves the bankruptcy manager. The bankruptcy manager first gets what appropriate place he has and really takes care of the assets of the company and protects the interests of the trustees. In his work, the bankruptcy manager acted according to the instructions and opinions of the trustees' committee and thus was given great importance and opportunity for the participation of the creditors themselves in the bankruptcy procedure. New conditions are also foreseen for the selection of a bankruptcy manager, as far as his status and expertise are concerned. That's why we say that the next law sets out a licensing agency for bankruptcy managers. As a mandatory bankruptcy process body, a trustee assembly has now appeared for the first time in which trustees whose claims are recorded in the debtor's books are up to 3%. They shall make all relevant decisions in the bankruptcy procedure, decide on the subjectivity of the debtor, on the sale of its assets or on the realization of the debtors. The Trustee Assembly shall elect the Supervisory Board and shall consider the report by the creditor of the bankruptcy proceedings and the status of the debtor's assets. The introduction of the Assembly and the Committee of Trustees has provided trustees with the right to exercise proper control of the procedure, and their decisions also affect the outcome of the bankruptcy procedure. A new measure was introduced, so-called a provisional measure of the appointment of the bankruptcy manager. To that end, a maximum reduction in the duration of the procedure was also carried out. All procedural actions are taxed and short deadlines are prescribed in which they must be taken. In this way, it is possible to eliminate existing abuses and unjustly delay both the main bankruptcy proceedings and the previous ones and the procedures to be reduced. The newspapers on the plan to protect trustees' interests are also legally established priorities and the separation of assets for the settlement of creditors, and the provision of a financial lease on the subject of the lease given to the creditor. A significant change in position has also been made, which is also what is significant, employees of the creditor. After an earlier solution, the opening of bankruptcy ended with a working relationship. After a new solution, the opening of a bankruptcy procedure only provides for one condition to quit the worker. This also has the importance of having a situation that provides for the possibility of reorganising and reviving the debtor and its resuscitation and further functioning. This also implies the need to keep workers working with a creditor. The new institute is also this reorganization of the bankruptcy debtor. It's a really new institute in this law. The reorganisation takes place according to the plan submitted together with the proposal to launch the bankruptcy procedure. The reorganisation plan can also be submitted by a creditor, owners who have at least 30% of the debtor's capital, and can also be done by a bankruptcy manager, as well as by creditors with at least 30% of secured or unsecured claims. The proposed reorganisation plan is voted by creditors with voting rights, proportionate to their majority of claims. This is also very significant, because de facto they decide whether to go into bankruptcy immediately or to give the possibility to reorganise the creditor. This creates a legal option not only for the recovery of businesses, but also for the proper privatisation of the creditor, carried out at will and in accordance with the interests of the trustee. The new institute that appears here is so-called the bankruptcy procedure for small-value bankruptcy. It's about those cases where the property of the debtor is up to five million dinars, accountingly recorded. In that case, the procedure is significantly shorter. All decisions shall be taken by a bankruptcy judge and shall be conducted in a manner that reduces the costs of the proceedings, and the procedure itself seems to be more effective. A significant advance on the efficiency of the bankruptcy proceedings was made by this law, and this was done by establishing the possibility of arbitration resolution in the court itself, i.e. The bankruptcy manager would propose one and the other's trusts, and the bankruptcy judge would be the chairman of the council and be given the opportunity to get past special litigation, which can last and to be dragged, in the very proceedings of the bankruptcy court. The possibility of a lengthy litigation is also avoided, and the possibility is that all existing litigation can be tried in the same court that is conducting the bankruptcy proceedings. The law also made clear the process of selling assets and the rapid collection of creditors, with very short deadlines since the arrival of funds on the account. It may be one of the most significant newspapers, which will have meaning and how to invest foreign investors, because this law is characterized by international standards in this type of procedure. The law also provides for international bankruptcy, the European Commission's recommendation of May 2002, thus guaranteeing the legal certainty of all intrustors in the protection of their interests in cases of domestic bankruptcy proceedings. This was done in accordance with international standards, which makes this law fully in line with international regulations. In the end, criminal provisions, misdemeanors, and all in the desire to avoid possible abuses, are also provided for and act preventively on those who would try to execute those abuses. Transitional provisions are also foreseen, according to the system, that where most of the property is not sold and the procedure still takes place, the law may be applied and the short process ends the bankruptcy process and protect both the debtor's property and the trustee's rights. It's those basic lines and the paper of this law, and I hope we hear some new suggestions as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4576	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here you are, the authorised representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Mr Vlahovic. I also inform you that the authorised representatives are at this point in front of the Democratic Party, Mr Vlahovic, and in front of the SPS Mr Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the DS is pleased that a legislative project relating to the new bankruptcy regulation has finally come to the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to start by saying that DS will support the bill on bankruptcy and the draft law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers, for a number of reasons. First, because DS has shown by its work and its actions that it does not change attitudes depending on whether it is in power or in opposition, in other words, that it truly advocates the continuation of reforms, primarily economic ones, in our country. Then, because, among other things, the law on bankruptcy and the law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers has just written and prepared the former Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, and by looking at certain adjustments, we have noticed that there has been no fundamental changes in the defined bankruptcy procedure. Third, because DS assumes Serbia's interests with its party interests. In other words, we know that without the adoption of such a legal project there is no continuation of economic reforms, there is no progress in restructuring the Serbian economy, nor is there progress in further building the private sector. We know that this is one of the preconditions for continuing the macro-financial support of the European Union, that this is one of the preconditions for continuing the programme to support the development of the private sector by the World Bank and that this is one of the preconditions for the permanent presence of the IMF and the support of the IMF. We do not want to score cheap party points by being against a reform law that was prepared in the previous period and by having an existing government, in which DS does not participate and which DS generally does not support, put it in a position to be in big trouble, above all, in the problems of the implementation of the Budget Law, which has been defined for this year. The law on bankruptcy and the law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers is one set of laws which, first of all, sheds light on the problem of bankruptcy. I must express, in my personal name and on behalf of the DS, the dissatisfaction and regret that Serbia today, when there are very big economic problems, Serbia, in which the transition in the economic sense of the retail stand, in which the development of the private sector, the restructuring of the economy, has no economy minister, has already been forced by a respected minister of justice to explain the bankruptcy law. The key quality of this legal project is that the bankruptcy problem, the bankruptcy process lighting primarily from the economic aspect, i.e. puts bankruptcy in the function of healing the Serbian economy, and that part of the Serbian economy which cannot be privatised in accordance with the Privatisation Act, which is located in a deep operational, then, ongoing and strategic crisis, and is, as such, without major debt restructuring, and as possible only by bankruptcy, neither is it possible to suppress indifference nor is it possible to overcome strategic problems. It is precisely the key characteristics of this bankruptcy law and the law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, which, unfortunately, because of the lack of the parliamentary majority, we will talk about in the second part of the debate, when we talk about this special law, so the key ones are: the speed of the bankruptcy procedure, which means that bankruptcys do not last for an average of 7.2 years; then, the separation of the judge from the operational function, i.e. the clear definition of the role of bankruptcy managers and, on the other hand, the role of a bankruptcy judge; then, the focus of bankruptcy that is transferred from the debtor to creditors. Then, what obviously neither today nor today is the parliamentary majority or the ruling coalition has the courage to say, and we, regardless of what we are in opposition, have and have had the courage to say -- that is to break up a false picture of social stability in non-working enterprises, which formally exist, false images of false employment inherited by the devastating policy of the 1990s, and some political parties, who are sitting in parliament today, were just the creators of these major economic processes of the 1990s. It is not unknown, therefore, that all transition countries are just a key step in the development of the private sector, in raising the level of private activity, in a strong breakthrough in the area of economic restructuring, in a different structural adjustment, made exactly the moment when they defined effective bankruptcy procedures, regulations and when institutions were able to implement this effective bankruptcy regulation. You have an example of Hungary, you have an example of Slovenia. Almost all key, large, leading companies in Slovenia were restructured in bankruptcy proceedings in the early 1990s. As you know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bankruptcy law is similar to the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, the Company Act. By March 2003, more specifically by 18 April 2003, he was directly in charge of federal ministries, or federal government. It was only 18 April 2003 that the bankruptcy problem was defined as the authority of the Republic government. The amendments to the Law on Ministrys and the definition of the legislative framework for bankruptcy processes and, among other things, the function of supervision in bankruptcy proceedings becomes the subject of activities of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, today the Ministry of Economy and not the Ministry of Justice. This is not only a symbolic change, but at the same time a message that bankruptcy processes, in line with the new bankruptcy regulation, will play a significantly different role in the overall process of restructuring Serbia's economy. I would remind you that within two months, the previous ministry has prepared a bankruptcy law and a law on the Agency for Licensing of Bank Managers and that the Assembly in the previous meeting, in June 2003, had these legal documents on the agenda. It would have been much better if the bankruptcy law had been passed then. I express regret not because the previous government has lost its parliamentary majority, it is a normal thing, but because Serbia, the Serbian economy, has missed a year to make a strong breakthrough in the restructuring process. I regret that the majority of the previous parliament, the political parties, have just been managed by the colossal and cheap political points, brought down the law, the Assembly, among other things, and the Government, in order to make no difference in power. That change occurred in March of the month. I regret that it took more than four months for one draft legal document to be forwarded to the Republic Assembly for adoption. As you can see, the DS will support this bankruptcy law, regardless of what is in the opposition and whatever we know that the ruling majority has problems with the majority in parliament. We will not use cheap political propaganda and demagogy, which tends to be one other political party in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4578	Are you using another ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4579	I'm done. I'm not gonna use another ten minutes. So, we will support, but note, because there are a large number of amendments coming from another parliamentary group that supports the minority government, and it is justified that the parliamentary majority will accept amendments to those parliamentary groups that support the government, if there is, however, the Democratic Party will not vote in favour of the bankruptcy law because the adoption of these amendments would return to bankruptcy legislation where it has been so far, and that is not the essence and that is not the purpose of what this law wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4580	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4581	Since this government has been called by MP Vlahovic, I would only like to point to two inaccuracies. There are facts that the bill was made and delivered to the Assembly. However, since there are several resolutions in the government that are not only concerned with politics but also with the profession, we have noticed that this law, if adopted, could not be applied in practice. That's why we hired really great experts from trade courts, they gave certain opinions, they were built in. Ambassador Vlahovic was correct, but discreetly said there were certain changes. Because of these changes, the law could not go straight to the congregation but had to go now. It's done, and I think it's really a valid legal proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4582	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is authorized by Socialist Party representative of Serbia National MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4583	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to make several views of the Socialist Party of Serbia, which is our parliamentary group on the draft law on bankruptcy proceedings. Mr. Vlahovic said something about it, but I would suggest that everyone in this assembly see this law in a much broader context than the very text of a law that prescribes certain bankruptcy procedures. It is a little sad to hear the presentation of the current minister who complains that this government did not put this law on the agenda, and they had three years to change something they did not consider to be good, or the current law on forced alignment, bankruptcy and liquidation. In the country of Serbia today, we have 70% of the economic operators ahead of us. Therefore, the issue of bankruptcy is not only a matter of the procedure laid down in this law but rather of the overall functioning of the state and government above all. The bankruptcy is not just a question concerning people employed in enterprises that are in economic difficulties and cannot be derived from them without some opening of the bankruptcy process; bankruptcy is a question and the Ministry of Economy, but also those ministries dealing with the social component of the situation in our society. There is no comfort in the fact that the bill proposes a solution to launch bankruptcy proceedings does not automatically mean that all employees of these companies are fired, but it is obvious that life in these companies is exactly going in this direction that a huge number of workers in enterprises in which the bankruptcy process is launched will inevitably run out of work. The key question is who and how will accept these unemployed workers when they get fired, primarily for economic reasons, in these companies. Are there social funds that are able at least to temporarily provide any kind of socio-material status for these employees? They don't exist. Are there any development or incentive funds in this society that will allow those who, due to bankruptcy, remain unemployed in businesses to start their own business? It doesn't exist. At the same time, conditions for the launch of a bankruptcy procedure are tightening, and it is said that a company that is not able to settle its obligations to creditors within 45 days is eligible to launch bankruptcy proceedings if one of the creditors initiates the story before the appropriate trade court. So far, that deadline has been 60 days. I wonder, as a man who works in the economy, if something important has improved the situation in the economy in terms of the financial and liquidity of our businesses that we have reason to cut that deadline by 60 days, as far as it's been, to 45 days. I argue to you that, for this reason, even those companies whose debts do not represent 5% of the total assets can come into the category of those in which bankruptcy proceedings are initiated at the request of the creditors. Rigidan is a 30-day deadline that speaks of the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings if the company has not made any payments continuously for 30 days. Of course, for the essence of economic and economic life may not mean much these 15 days, but in the practical implementation of the law it will be and how significantly these 15 days. I understand that a bankruptcy procedure can be initiated against an undertaking where it is not possible to carry out obligations under a judicial verdict, so it is not possible to carry out the enforcement procedure in a way that trusts are settled and that is when, without a previous bankruptcy procedure, the bankruptcy is opened. What was once in the law that Mr. Vlahovic criticises was a category of so-called. working bankruptcy today is in this law, in my understanding of things, however much that can be talked about in various formulations, replaced by the process of reorganisation, and we have a bankruptcy process that goes essentially in two directions: one is reorganisation, and the other is bankruptcy. When a reorganization isn't possible, there's going to be bankruptcy. When a creditor's assets aren't enough to settle trustees' obligations, it's basically a bankruptcy exchange for liquidation and we've had it so far. The truth is, I have to admit as a man, as someone who may know this matter, that the current bankruptcy procedure that was conducted in Serbia was unjustly done over a very long period and it is true that the average bankruptcy proceedings lasted for seven years. It is true that these opportunities for many were "weights" and that it was important to be with someone in good relationships to get several companies in which you will run the bankruptcy, so you have no responsibility as a bankruptcy manager, you have no deadlines to end it all and these companies essentially came to bankruptcy. There are other examples. I can tell you what you all know, like the example of Belgrade, Beka, Inexa, Centraltextile, and the example of many other major companies where, as if someone has purposely done in the last three years to create a situation that is formally legal enough to initiate bankruptcy proceedings. Mr. Vlahovic is talking about how now because this government is not working effectively we have stopped the privatisation process, but the previous government has created exactly such economic conditions and opportunities in the country of Serbia to launch bankruptcy procedures primarily with the intention of making privatisation. It wasn't a privatisation problem for the past three years, but it was that the best companies were sold, and those that were worst left to sell. Why did Mr. Vlahovic and this ministry fail to organise the privatisation process in the previous three years when they were in power and to sell the worst companies, and to leave this one alone, because there was no short need to sell it into depravity and to talk today about how this government is actually working so that the privatisation process was stopped. What's going to happen to bankruptcy today? We will come to the fact that we have 70% of the economy in bankruptcy and that these companies buy a new one after the trustee's commitment has been settled, those who in previous times have gotten their hands on the money and take over essentially the management of the Serbian economy. This is a fundamental problem for me, and I am sorry, here, I see Mrs Simovic from the Ministry of Business and Justice, so this is not just a topic for the two of them, this is a topic for a much wider social and economic context, because in fact we will have the bankruptcy procedures that will be implemented under this law, which, I admit, more effectively solved some things, to come up with that instead of a million unemployed at one point we have two million unemployed. That's what the problem is. There are no Serbia's surplus workers, but Serbia has job shortages and job shortages. It seems to you that's the same thing to say, but it's not. Please, the previous privatisations of 1,200 of the best companies on paper provided, reportedly, investments in the Serbian economy of around 700m euros. May Mr. Vlahovic or someone from the DS, who has essentially exercised power, how much of these funds have been promised as investments and how much has been invested in the past three years. It is very small, and without new investment in the economy there are no new jobs, no new employment and no possibility for workers who remain jobless due to bankruptcy to accept. So that's the point of the problem. We can talk about the law one way or another, but if we don't have that shocker, we're going to have a very big and difficult problem, and if there's no social dialogue with the unions, no matter how they're called, then we're going to have very big problems, no government can come out of. (President: Mr. Todorovic, do you use another 10 minutes? No, just 15 more seconds. So, I'm going to talk about the details, it's not a problem that the SPS has submitted 22 amendments to this draft bankruptcy law. When you look at it, and I don't think the Democratic Party gentlemen have even looked at these amendments until the end, you'll see that they don't change the essence of the law, but some things are likened and more appropriate to the current situation that is important in order for this procedure to be conducted before us with as little consequences as possible for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4584	Do any of the other representatives, or heads of Parliament, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SRS, DSS, DS, G17 plus and the SPS. I give the word of the messenger of the people to Zoran Krasic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milka Silai.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4585	Today on the agenda we have a bankruptcy law and the case he wanted, because there is no Minister for Business and Privatisation, to explain the law to us by the minister of justice. And it's vividly showing that our economy is moving to the judiciary. He's moving to the judiciary, and until a few days ago, those who were shaking chains and locks had some kind of formula, we heard that someone who was said to be a representative of the economy was elected. As soon as he gets out of the office one step, a hundred businessmen follow him. The citizen's office is likely to be attended by those who used to work in those factories where the chains and locks are now. We heard the praises of a former minister whom the people no longer wanted to see be a minister; and he supported this new government that the people allegedly wanted and we are spinning in a vicious circle. In a vicious circle, because we are in the third stage of defecating the Serbian economy. The first stage was a forced tender sale of 400 companies that mean something and something worth something, not all 400 were sold. The second stage of that trip to Europe, and judging by how long the former minister had discussed it, we are probably late for Europe, if he had shortened the discussion long ago, we would have gone to Europe, so the second stage was those auctions. Remember - three euros, complete sugar; remember some other companies, that a man with a tie and a purse and a loan, or a bank guarantee of a large bank managed to buy a large company, and all those who participated in the auction noticed that this man had never done anything, nor represented this economy. We're coming to stage three, and that's bankruptcy, it's going to be privatisation again. Once again, it will be fully legal, the capital will be disbursed and a small number of employees who have remained in some companies and large capital companies that will be in bankruptcy will not be solved. Who could be in bankruptcy buying if we go with a variant of bankruptcy to bankruptcy -- the one who's got money. He who has money in this country, who holds 8% of the wealth of the Republic of Serbia, he and his similar magnets who have exploited all possible regimes, all possible benefits, established their monopolies, they came to the couples and they promote economy, profession, experts, their universities, their banks, their telecommunications giants, everything that represents a monopoly that certainly brings us always money. Now, in bankruptcy proceedings, they will probably be directly or indirectly, through other thirds, and the real owner is only in some contract, in some safe in Cyprus or those exotic islands, why pick up what's left, and then someone from the government will say it's not all so black and people drive cars, have money for fuel, we can raise excises. It's our reality, this bankruptcy law will not bring anything quality, whether it's bankruptcy or the reorganisation that's listed here. Nothing new, it just needs to be legalized, something that was said in November 2000 that everything should be ash, so that something new, good and better will come out of the ashes. That's our bankruptcy code. He's praised by that institute that wrote the bill, he probably took some donation, some money, it's something, nobody's going to say that even the existing law, if it applied, would be able to regulate. Here, it is disputed, with the right, working bankruptcy, which in practice looks bad, and we are forced by a reorganisation that is almost nothing different from a working bankruptcy. Is there anyone in this economy who can go out for this pay phone and point to these expectations, hopes of what this law will bring us? And there's no such expectations, there's no such thing as hope, there's just going to be the legalization of something, and what I'm sure is -- until the licensing is done, while the agency is formed, the licensing until it starts to apply this law, then those who need to apply this law will realize that it's too late and there's nothing to apply. This will be one in a series of laws written, adopted, and life rejected, for one simple reason why something that can be prescribed in England and Germany, but cannot apply in Serbia right now. This can't apply to us. Someone can finish the bankruptcy procedure in a year, but then you know there'll be even more people on the street. It's said to be of quality. Under the current law, the opening of bankruptcy ends the working relationship of all employees. Under this new law, the bankruptcy manager decides who stays. Tell me what the difference is. Once again, the will of the bankruptcy manager will depend on how many people there will be. It's said that social peace has been bought so far. And what is the purpose of politics? To ensure social peace in the state and in society. You can't be sure there's a riot, can you? This congregation is now serving to ensure political stability so that all state authorities can implement the Constitution, laws, and other regulations. This law won't achieve anything. I have one thing to say. If the SRS MP group, 82 of us, voted in favour of this law, do you think something better would be done by the fact that it would vote? No, you wouldn't. I think it's a completely missed topic. The missing topic, because once a major economy, the huge value is now melting, melting legally, melting and now in trade courts, especially in those trade courts whose representatives write songs to us to preserve their position. You've had an example of Sartide and big affairs, you'll have so many and so many similar examples, you'll have licensed bankruptcy managers, which, in the light of the law, stands exactly - that they're in the process of protecting the interests of allegedly trustees. In probably 60 and several places, by reading this bill, it can be unmistakably concluded that a little more skilled trusts and a little more skilled lawyers can initiate bankruptcy proceedings in each company. A little more skillful in dealing with a bankruptcy manager, a bankruptcy judge and most of the trustees' board can destroy any company. I'm talking about destruction, because this law doesn't see those who need to work with those funds, or those who work with them today. If anyone thinks they can lift our economy this way, he's wrong. Judging by the methods of operating the original DOS, you'd better have passed the crisis headquarters law, because that's the only way you know how to put chains and locks. Chains and locks are mostly yours. With this law, you will not remove them, but you will devalue the property and put it on the correct financial lobby in this country (and there are 10 - 15 strong ones). After all, it is those who formed you, those who forced you to vote for a joint candidate in the previous elections, and at the head of that list is Solana, and in the end Mesic. Of course we won't support this law, because it doesn't take off chains and locks. The salad isn't in bankruptcy yet, but as you do, it's probably gonna be.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4586	The People's Messenger Milka Silaev has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dragoljub Stamenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4587	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the G17 plus advocates continuing reforms in this country, because it's the only way for this country to get out of crisis, that this country is getting closer to Europe, that this young people have new jobs, that young people don't go outside, that those who have gone back. G17 plus will support this bill. The draft bankruptcy procedure law and the draft law establishing a bankruptcy management agency did not get anywhere near that amount of publicity as it received a hearing at the Department of Combating Organized Crime of Participants in the Sartid bankruptcy process. That's sad. We kind of like a nation want always affairs, and we don't want and we don't support the positive energy that comes from any source. Positive energy was also in the previous composition of this government. This law was in the Assembly. Unfortunately, he didn't live to be adopted. If the existing law regulates bankruptcy proceedings in Serbia, had it been good or had at least been consistently implemented, there might be fewer doubts about the legality of the flows and outcomes of the current bankruptcy proceedings. The uncertainty over the fate of several thousand firms that have long squished in debt and empty accounts or bankruptcy managers who have been "taken action" for years would certainly be somewhat less. This bankruptcy law is, I said, practically for the second time in the Assembly and is almost identical with the proposal made by the previous ministry; the difference is that the new law regulates so-called bankruptcy with foreign elements, which domestic courts and competent institutions carry out in co-operation with other state institutions participating in bankruptcy proceedings, and in order to achieve greater legal certainty in trade, investment and protection of the interests of all legal entities. The key paper prescribed by the proposed law is that, in the shortest possible case, the bankruptcy procedure can be carried out as a reorganisation of the company, in the event that the recovery of the creditor is possible, and bankruptcy, or the sale of assets, when the company is estimated to be overloaded and over-indebted. The bankruptcy shall be effected on an insolvent legal person and undertakings in the event that they are unable to fulfil the obligation within 45 days of maturity; when all payments are suspended within a month; when it is made likely that the debtor will not be able to fulfil his or her obligations in the future. Finally, on the proposal of the Commissioner, the debtor, and the exclusive and competent public defendery. The insolvency proceedings shall cease to apply. The law retains two judicial authorities, which are a bankruptcy and bankruptcy judge, by making the first key decisions in the process, while the judge will play a more active day-to-day role in the management of bankruptcy proceedings. For better settlement, it will be mandatory to form a congregation and committee of trustees, which will decide on reorganisation or bankruptcy, adopt an organisation plan and control significant actions affecting bankruptcy. Finally, operational decisions are in the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy administrator, whose work will be supervised by the court. So the whole procedure isn't ad hoc, the whole procedure is tied up, it's known at all times what anyone should do. One procedure which respects the ISO 9,000 in a certain way. The bankruptcy manager must have a license to do this job, and it is important that the majority of social and state-owned enterprises will play the role of the bankruptcy manager as the Privatisation Agency. The bankruptcy procedure is considered urgent under the provisions of the proposed law, which is why precise deadlines are proposed for all participants in the procedure. If bankruptcy is declared, the liquidation of the bankruptcy will be possible: the sale of the property by public tendering, the public collection of offers, the sale of assets by direct contract but with the consent of the trustee's board, the sale on the stock market. Assets shall be transferred to the buyer after payment of the purchase price. When it comes to the order of payments, the state has secured itself. This was about the state not taking care of the workers. That's not true. The first row includes claims based on the cost of bankruptcy proceedings. Then, outstanding net earnings for the last year before the bankruptcy procedure, as well as commitments for PIO over a period of two years. In the third row, claims based on public revenues reached in the last three months prior to the initiation of the procedure and in the fourth claim, i.e. the settlement of all other creditors. The second course of bankruptcy, reorganisation, will be possible to implement different methods, from the closure of non-profit enterprises, changes in activity, termination of burdensome contracts, to delay, forgiveness or conversion of debts, etc. The new law, if adopted by the MPs, I hope it will, will finally apply and would be applied to previously launched bankruptcys in which the court has not made a decision on the deposit of property or an emergency settlement has not been concluded. Without such a law, financial discipline of economic operators cannot be ensured. We have a long tradition in this country that always respected a debtor rather than a trustee. It created one terrible feeling of mistrust in our country. In any case, the new law, according to the authors of this law, should allow an efficient bankruptcy procedure, not to last for years, the recovery of companies with financial difficulties and certain "recycling" funds in the economy, compliance of legislation here with international standards. Most importantly, it should ensure trustees' rights, unlike the practice so far and their playfulness and protection of debtors. The role and skills of bankruptcy managers should be changed, perhaps even the most important link in this chain and in the overall process, which so far have been unequivocal for such an important job, so most often they were the ones who compromised this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4588	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and let MP Milan Markovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, looking at this law the first thing I can notice is that it's a good thing that the bankruptcy procedure is armed and that it can't be drawn and that it lasts for years, that no end can be seen. One view referred to in Article 2 which states that a creditor is deemed to be incompetent to pay, if he cannot meet his obligations within 45 days of the date of maturity of the obligation and if he has fully suspended his payments over a period of 30 days, he must worry us. In that case, bankruptcy of a debtor or his reorganisation shall be carried out. These are very short deadlines that will be very difficult to respond to, and it probably leads to bankruptcy most of the remaining Serbian economy that is being dumped and worked so hard. Teached by the experience of DOS power, it seems to me that there is no difference with this authority either, as former Minister Vlahovic warmly supports the law, we think this way will go to the funeral of the remaining part of the Serbian economy. It is good that this law also provides for the settlement of both states and other creditors, but the law also establishes the existence of payment orders, so the bankruptcy of the lower payment order can only be settled after the bankruptcy trusts of the higher payment order are settled. Now we have one situation that's scheduled for Article 35. The law. I ask you, why does a state, or claim based on public income, that has reached in the last three months before the bankruptcy proceedings are launched have priority over other creditors? Why do trusts in the third payment order, i.e. states, except in some cases that are charged before that, when it comes to insurance obligations, etc., why is it in favour of other creditors, i.e. trustees of the fourth payment order? Why aren't they even? Why would the state have an advantage over someone else who's also a creditor? I must underline that even this law does not protect employees of companies going bankrupt. It must be taken care of because the bankruptcy of many companies will create an even bigger army of unemployed in Serbia. Soon we will have only one category of working age – category of unemployed workers. This is something that can lead to a more serious crisis in the country, except for political conflicts, and a different kind of conflict, certainly no one in this country wants. That is why we are constantly asking Boris Tadic, both Kostunica and Karic to make that list for Europe, to remove the chains and locks, to start living better, as promised after the elections, to start the Serbian economy, to keep all the promises made to voters that if Boris Tadic wins, everything will be better for us. Unfortunately, electricity has accumulated, more visas for Romania, and none of this seems to have been met. I would also ask, before they take off their chains and locks, to pay the cherries and raspberries to the producers in Toplica, Meroshini, Jablani County, not to be blackmailed with prices of 16 dinars, and only a kilo of cherries as it is collected, the picker collects eight dinars, in some cases the money does not give them, they take the cherry for free, to try in every way to prevent the disaster that is happening, and a large number of producers, or peasants, are taking out that cherry. Gentlemen, this has to do with bankruptcy, and I'll tell you why. Many producers, today called me from Meroshina, think that gold is a valuable export product such as cherry turned into brandy. The state will run out of large foreign exchange revenues and this will certainly lead to bankruptcy both in the bankruptcy of the producers of the surplus and in Toplica and in the Jablanic district and in me near Merošina. If we thought that the bankruptcy of businesses would return one number of workers and start agricultural production, and also raise surpluses, raspberries, etc. if this situation continues – there will be nowhere to return. In that I say – there is Karic, so let him start his army of industrialists, let them give us some money to make us all better, he promised when he gave support to Tadic. What the SRS has always fought against and pointed out as harmful is the creation of numerous agencies. Here, we've got another agency. How much longer with the agencies? How many are there going to be? It is true that some things must be brought into order, that it is known who may be the bankruptcy manager, that it is no longer someone they are barely after, because no one accepts it to be, but, please, I have the impression that now these bankruptcy managers will "play the way the agency plays", that is, how the government orders, and this again leads to the bankruptcy of the Serbian economy. I must say, it seems to be your wish. This law also does not clearly state what the real value of the company is, whether it is accounting value or market value. I'd like to draw your attention to article 67. (represents government representatives) which says: "The day of the bankruptcy procedure of asking the trustee for the creditor to the creditor, who has not arrived, is considered to be effective". Now, that's impossible. Those claims, if they were there, can't mean that the wrong is done right. How can something that has failed to come to fruition on the day of the proceedings? That, in my opinion, is impossible. Or, see Article 73, which states: "From the date of the bankruptcy proceedings, no action can be taken against the debtor, or over his assets, to determine and implement an emergency execution, or any measure of enforcement in order to settle the claim, other than executions relating to the costs of the bankruptcy procedure". And the law on executive procedure says I can. Is that right? And this is a new law. So it's going to apply, and we're going to suspend the old law. Anyway, here, let's just drop the story. I have a solution to how to solve this job, how to make us all better. Let only Karic, Kostunica and Tadic take off those locks and chains, open up businesses, make us feel better. There will be no bankruptcy. There will be no bankruptcy. They promised it to the citizens. But first, gentlemen, this is urgent, pay the cherries, because they will be bankrupted by peasants in both Toplica and Jablanic County, and they will need no agency to liquidate bankruptcy managers or bankruptcy managers. Without it, he'll go bankrupt. So, Tadic, to make us feel better, take off your chains and locks immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4590	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milan Markovic, and let Jovan Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4591	The Honorable Presidency, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, this law deserves a serious discussion. I don't see why some people in this House have been simply obsessed with the President of the Republic lately. We should look forward, we have the President of the Republic, to the pride of all of us, who in an adequate way will be able to do this work on behalf of all of us and to be properly represented both in the country and in the world. Today there is a law before us that is fundamentally different from the law of June 2003 established by the previous government. It is very interesting to me, which is why I express satisfaction, which is one of the many laws established by the previous government, the Democratic Party, which puts this government on the agenda of this parliament. That's why I immediately thank my colleague from G17 plus who denied the words of the minister, which I was preparing for, when the minister said some major changes were made here. There were no serious changes here compared to the law at the time. The only change is that at the time this law was passed, this chapter was not an integral part of the law because there was a discrepancy between the two models at the world level. One is the UN model and the other is the European Commission. So then the idea was that when it was brought into line at the world level, it would be resolved by a special regulation that would be passed. We see that in this case, specifically with this law, it's practically the same kind of alternative or dilemma left in this matter, so it's the only question that distinguishes this and the previous law and therefore it's not right to say that this is not the law proposed by the previous government. What does it say that we have laws, especially from the sphere of economic policy, that appear more and more frequently before this House, and which are the laws of the government whose backbone was made by the Democratic Party? This points to two conclusions. First, that the reform policy, based on the Democratic Party, the government made up of the Democratic Party seems to be the only possible, only proper economic policy for our country and the situation in which we are. Others, that the avalanche of accusations, hickeys, the irresponsible attitude of politicians in pre-election campaigns, when, in different ways, slandered both the Democratic Party and the economic policy it ran, were purely political marketing, these were the words of irresponsible people, for which citizens today suffer. We are talking about the responsibility and price that Serbian citizens pay for this, and the price is high. The price is – a stalemate of reforms, economic uncertainty, investor mistrust and strategic partners, and very quickly we are expected by very direct, direct economic difficulties that we will all have to overcome together this time, and that would not have occurred if this discontinuity had not been caused by pure politics and the aggravation of a part of the ruling coalition. There have been too many staffing, political marketing, and the persecution of the Democratic Party in the past six months, and little has been done or almost nothing has been done. This bill was supposed to represent the economy minister here. It's unserious, we don't have a minister of business. It is equally unserious as it is unserious and that the ruling coalition is for purely ideological reasons, I would say – an ideological compromise (and I'm particularly glad that the attention in parliament is on the level), changed the name of the ministry, and instead of being called what was called at the time when we were doing this government is now simply called – the Ministry of Economy; the word was thrown out – privatisation. It is, I repeat, a pure ideological compromise, because the ruling coalition has not cleared with itself whether it goes or does not go to privatisation. It is also a demagogy due to unfair, incorrect campaign, led by the ruling coalition against the Serbian government. And, by the way, privatisation has been so attacked, abused, used for defamation of DS and then the Minister and Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, that today we come to the situation "the earthquake of mountains was born of a mouse". But to be exact, nothing was born here. There's been a lot of damage. The trust of strategic partners and investors is gone, and privatisation has stopped. What a shame, and how political hypocrisy it is, I'll explain it to you. If we go back only a few months, and I've brought the Budget Law here, you'll be able to see what the Budget Law was for then. 16 billion and 400 million dinars of the same, so attacked and disputed privatisation were foreseen. I even brought a stenogram from that time. On March 27th 2004, we asked the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister a few questions, and I will paraphrasise one so as not to burden you. We asked the question of the budget deficit, which we then said was large (that was 46 billion), and in particular that the sources of coverage of the deficit were completely unreal, especially revenues from the privatisation of 16 billion 414 million and 762 thousand dinars. Then we asked – on what criteria did you base such a high projection of revenue from privatisation. Then we warned you of an unfair campaign, an irresponsible campaign that you led against the then government, which concerns business of economy and privatisation. I would like to meet the MPs – today I have submitted to the President of the National Assembly, in accordance with our work rules, the parliamentary question, the parliamentary question to the Serbian Government, which I will read to you. So today it is set up, and the reason for this is – 16 billion which are obviously missing or will be missing in the Republic of Serbia's budget. First, how many companies have been privatised since the start of the government's mandate until 1 July 2004? How many new tender privatisations have been scheduled since the start of the government's mandate until July 1st, 2004? How many pre-privatisations have been made since the start of the government's mandate until 1 July 2004 and how many privatisations have been made since the start of the government's mandate until 1 July 2004 on the basis of the privatisation of the company during that period? The last question, perhaps the most indicative of the whole area – what are the costs of the Privatisation Agency for this period? So much for the Ministry of Economy, which, unfortunately, is not called for economy and privatisation, but only for the economy, which was here to be found in the role of whoever represents this law, if we stick to the letters of the law and what it says in the Ministry Act that was adopted here. It would have been better if the Ministry of Economy had immediately continued the path that we started and it would have been better if it hadn't been, for the sake of politics, for the sake of scarcity and demagogy, that way stopped, because it would be very difficult to start the momentum again. Of course, we, as the responsible opposition, support this law. The solutions in this law are very important. They are one of the assumptions that continues where we left off and to create an environment for economic recovery, restructuring and raising our economic activity. Again, the question remains why this law was pending, we heard one MP from the ruling coalition, and I have concrete evidence here, it can be compared, that this is the same law that existed in June 2003. If the government had made better use of this time to offer us more laws like this, there could have been fewer laws waiting for their fate before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, there could have been fewer shifts and fewer satisfactions of the ruling coalition's political interests. Because of such work today, we face very serious economic problems. The problem is getting bigger. Today, July 1st, a significant date for all agricultural workers begins harvesting, but is threatened with roadblocks. In fact, this year, thanks to the birth age, we will have a large yield of nearly 2.5 million tons of wheat. Our balance needs are about 1.65 million tons. We're going to have extraordinary 4.5 tons per hectare, and I remind you that last year, because of the drought, there were only 2,22 tons. The question arises whether the state has the strength, despite so much pompously announced agrarian budget, to carry out its obligation to buy out market surpluses at the prices that were said when the wheat seed business was joined. I'll remind you, fair and minimum would be 9.5 dinars, along with a premium of two dinars. I'm afraid there's nothing of it today. If the government manages to find the money, it will be at the expense of the other side. Because of such things, we ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to propose more of these laws, because the government's job and the work of this Parliament is to pass laws that will directly affect the lives of citizens. More laws like this, more concrete work, less political demagogy. For such work you will always have the sincere support of DS, because DS, we have said this since the beginning of this mandate, will never dispute something that would apply itself, because of petty political points, nor will you ever be offered any solution that would not apply that alone is in a position to create power. It is a fair and correct relationship and we expect it to become a standard in Serbia in the future. A series of newspapers that make this law exist, but I'm going to make some solutions here, some dilemmas. These dilemmas in no way dispute the values and solutions of this law, to be absolutely clear here. First, the key issue in bankruptcy today is the question of efficiency. I think efficiency is very important. It is necessary to maintain the value of the funds, it is necessary to ensure that they return to use as soon as possible and end the agony that lasts for both company workers and creditors. That's why bankruptcy should take place quickly. I think that this law predicted a series of mechanisms and that, if its application is adequate, bankruptcy will not last longer than one year, and that is seven times less than bankruptcy proceedings today, seven times less than it is today, in which only some are profiting, and those in the lobby of bankruptcy directors and trade courts are known to run this area. A bankruptcy manager – an exceptional newspaper. The paper is this professionalization, the paper is education, licensing and responsibility. I have to admit that when it comes to responsibility, I have a dilemma that I've put on the Justice Committee, and I want to share it with you here. It's Article 18. He is an entrepreneur and he answers for damage to his entire assets, but the issue of his property is raised. I think it would be a good idea to make a condition for setting up a certain deposit if someone wanted to be a bankruptcy manager, or to sign up for the bankruptcy management register. So, I think that's a good idea. I would like to think about it in some future period, because that would ensure and guarantee the even more responsible work of bankruptcy managers. As far as education is concerned, in fact, as regards the expert examination provided for in Article 3 of the Agency's law and in Article 14 of the bankruptcy law, I think it is extremely important to ensure that all necessary knowledge is checked in order for someone to be a bankruptcy manager. What matters is what that exam looks like. Yesterday, on the Justice Committee, we heard from respected representatives of the Ministry that it would be a very serious test, that they would seek knowledge, if I am not mistaken, and corporate finance, corporate law, and probably many other knowledge. That's a great solution. The assumption here is that there will be no bankruptcy manager, or here there is an assumption that whoever accepts the business of the bankruptcy manager will be serious and will have the necessary knowledge to carry out this very delicate job. We hope that one day, in two, three, five or ten years, this will stand out and create one chamber, like the bar, that will form its own rules. It'll be some chamber of bankruptcy managers. We hope that one day we will succeed. One of the most significant solutions to this law is a solution for entities with majority social and state capital. Article 14 provides for the following: "In the process of carrying out bankruptcy against a legal person who is in the majority state, or social property, the protective manager will in no way appoint a specialised institution established by a special regulation, who must have employed persons who have a licence under Article 1(1) of this Article". An extremely good, extremely important solution, given that the biggest abuses and the biggest problems have just arisen in social capital entities, in situations where bankruptcy managers are placed in places that do not meet even professional and even less moral criteria in order to carry out such a responsible job. The social community is being paid directly, directly by workers who are employed in these companies. So I think this is an extremely good solution, but I ask you to accept the proposal made by the previous government, from the 2003 law, from the law that is now here, which is not to set up a special specialised organisation, but to take over these jobs by the Privatisation Agency. I believe that this is very important from the aspect of efficiency and from the aspect of economic and functionality, given that it is business that intertwines with one another. This law significantly changes the role of the trustee. I think it's a new quality, one standard that we have to accept in our overall social life. We're not going to let the trustees continue to be the ones who can pull anyone's nose, that the creditors are the ones who are in a privileged position. In the case of bankruptcy proceedings, it must not be allowed in any way to manage bankruptcy without the dominant role of creditors, precisely those to whom that entity owes money and which may be in difficulty, because of the irresponsibility and inability of the one who owes them the money. That's why we welcome this solution. At the very least, we introduced it, like the whole law, back in 2003, and we consider it very important and very good. I'm saying, we need as a standard to accept it in our thinking when it comes to other relationships, not just a bankruptcy relationship. What's important to know and it's important for the public, is that this law has a certain social component, and not only in terms of overall developments, a system solution, which is very important. A colleague, Vlahovic, said in an opening statement why it is important to pass this law. I say, there is a very specific article in Article 35, and I will read it to you, although I do not consider such a solution a liberal, marketable, economic solution, and that is the solution to the situation in which Serbia is. I am so glad that our government, and this government, too, has maintained that solution. Otherwise, that solution is consistent with the unions. In fact, it's about having four payment orders. The first payment order is claims based on the cost of the bankruptcy process, which is logical and normal. As a matter of fact, it won't take much of the deobey mass. In the second payment order, the outstanding net earnings of the employees of the creditor shall be paid in the last year prior to the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings. A very important, very significant social component, not to be a situation like now in various social enterprises where bankruptcy is introduced, and bankruptcy takes five years and people have not seen the salary for five years. A very important solution, perhaps one of the most significant solutions, although I think these five I've read are equally important, equally reformal and equally essential to this problem of ours. So a very important solution, a very good message to our citizens, and especially to those who have the misfortune to work in one of these companies that are insolvent. The third payment order, and what's very interesting is the state here is very fair, and only after this are the revenues, the public revenues, and the fourth payment order are the claims of other bankruptcy creditors. Probably one day when there's a full market economy it won't be like this, but I welcome this solution. We must take care of the standard of our citizens and the situation they are in, and we know what it is. I'll just say a few more things. There are some dilemmas, and these dilemmas do not diminish the importance of this law; one of them for me is the question of the duty of a bankruptcy manager to take over bankruptcy. I don't think any speculation should be allowed, the settlement of the bankruptcy manager whether or not he will accept this bankruptcy. There must be this obligation and my proposal is, and I hope you will accept it, that in the Code of Ethics, which, in accordance with Article 14 on the proposal of the Agency, brings the Minister of Economy (which I hope we will have in some foreseeable period), this will be entered into the Code of Ethics, which, on the basis of the proposal of the Agency, brings forward the Minister of Economy (for which I hope we will have it in some foreseeable period), and that this will become an obligation so that bankruptcy managers, or those persons who have a license in any way, will judge and say: I do not like this bankruptcy, I will not accept it. If conditions are offered which, by objective criteria, are correct, reward and work compensation to be done, everyone is obliged by bankruptcy managers to take over bankruptcy, such as lawyers who are obliged to take over the defense of the person, and even when they do not have the money. One dilemma I want to say about legal technique when the law is increased by 30 members concerning the international element. Let's say, Article 124, we've already defined it to the members 81 and 115 once; we understand that the deobescent mass, the bankruptcy mass in monetary form, and there's no dilemma here, it's not too important, but I have to point out that it wouldn't remain unspecified, Article 124 tells us what is the procedure with the excess debose mass, or with the excess money that could possibly happen. It is said that if the remaining assets are in social or state property, the sale and distribution of those assets will be carried out in accordance with the privatisation regulations. It's an obvious illogicality. How are you going to privatize the money? I've made more illustrations about this, because of some legal-technical dissatisfaction and perhaps the fact that after these supplements, this text could have been slightly better packaged. In any case, the text in the form that we received, basically the text of the previous government from 2003, is an undeniable quality, an undeniable step further. The Democratic Party's parliamentary club, according to a respected counterpart, Vlahovic, will support the law. Of course, we do not think that amendments should be allowed to change its essence and if it remains in this form as is now our parliamentary club votes for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4592	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4593	I'm referring to article 100. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, I think that insulting the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, especially when you insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens, and in particular the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, my colleagues, and I came forward, and even in a replica, it is nevertheless related to a hijka and a harangu against the Democratic Party that took place in the previous period. I have to say it's not only funny but it's rather reckless, but in any case it's extremely incorrect for citizens of Serbia who are neither blind nor stupid, nor deaf and who have watched what they did and what a dirty campaign the Democratic Party has been campaigning through their media all along, through various NGOs, in which they called their political opponents monsters who like to fight, who are likely to lead to the collapse of the country, to the isolation of the country. All they said were lies, from first to last. No wonder they lied, but what I would insist on and ask them to do... And then I'll tell you one more very dangerous thing they've prepared and we've learned from the press. I hope it'll be smart enough to pre-warn it. What they've prepared, I guess, is that our visas are lifted, to put on the white Schengen list as a country, to remove the chains and locks, so did those who supported their presidential candidate. They told us no more salads to be imported, I hear salad pickers are coming, and now on Friday. So I hope you finally start doing what you said. We haven't heard of any new jobs yet, except for a few secretaries who are preparing to move to the Serbian presidency, and you said there would be a lot of jobs. Now let me tell you what is a big problem and don't play with it. I heard in the media, we received information that in the Serbian presidency, the new president of Serbia will take an oath. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic takes an oath before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and is his to come to this hall and take an oath before the MPs, and I hear that someone will invite 250 MPs to run to "other Tito" across the street. Let me tell you something, in making a new Joseph Broz that we won't participate. We will come to swear our oath here, congratulate our political opponent, and run and show that one man is more important than 250 MPs, to do what certain newspapers, "Blic", "Today" and some... (President: Mr. Wolfie, time. Our time is just coming, you saw it. As far as you're concerned, Comrade Tito's time is over, it's been a long time and he'll never come back, and one man can't be more important than 250 MPs. Take care of it. Don't act like one. I know you think the revolution has won again. No, the revolution came to an end, 46%, just a little missing, very little, and that's going to be replaced in a month, two or three when they see how many of you lied about chains, locks, salads, everything else. Then you'll see how slowly you'll move from all the authorities' institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4594	The word has a folk MP, Jovan Todorovic, and let the MP Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4595	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several other principles and principles of the Socialist Party of Serbia on the proposed text of this law. Obviously, this matter is quite well systematized in the bill, and that man when he's looking at the law he can't blame much. Since I am not an education lawyer but an economist who lives a real life in the economy, then I always think about how this law will be implemented, or what consequences we will have based on its implementation. Let's just say, I want to point to, in my opinion, a rather delicate one, not to say a dangerous provision in article 40 that speaks of who is all authorized to initiate bankruptcy proceedings. You'll see that there are other than the trustees for that shop authorized and the attorney general and what is particularly surprising to me, although I have to be fenced that I'm not a lawyer, that bankruptcy can be initiated by the prosecutor. So bankruptcy can also be initiated by the prosecutor, and I would simply ask that someone who knows that matter better than I do points to real relations, or rational reasons for such a provision. Careful, the competent public prosecutor may initiate bankruptcy proceedings if he makes it likely that the creditor is incompetent to pay, and has grounds to suspect that his incompetence of payment is linked to the execution of a criminal offence being prosecuted under official duty. If I understand this position of a member in 40th well, then against all owners of a company, that is, against all companies whose owners are in some way on the strike of the law, Criminal, we can take advantage of the opportunity and start bankruptcy over their companies. For me, it's something that doesn't belong in this area, it doesn't belong to this law, and whoever committed the crimes should be in accordance with the Criminal Crimes Act and put up with sanctions. We could now that we're imaginative to link it to some specific people, but I wouldn't mention their names, because I'm not sure I'm going to be right that they're on the strike of the law or that they've committed some crimes that could result and that they're going to have bankruptcy proceedings against their companies. Second, there's a lot of talk here about protecting trustees. There is no doubt that logic is precisely in making an important difference between debtors and creditors and that there is finally such a situation that the trustee has an advantage over the debtor; therefore, to protect him by this law, because we have, objectively so far, in real life, had a situation that the debtors are more protected, both by banks and other economic entities, so if you want to do so to the state. But when I look at what it all means to reorganize a company where a bankruptcy procedure is launched, then some of these definitions seem to me to be illogical. For example, the measures for the implementation of the reorganisation plan - now here in Article 128 you have 22 measures which essentially are the economic activity of that entity as if there were no bankruptcy; or, if we go back to the solutions of the current, applicable law, it is actually one business activity that takes place under the auspices of the bankruptcy board, or, if you want to get closer to the parallel, as a working bankruptcy. What's interesting to me here, and what's the point? Under this reorganisation plan and the measures being implemented, you can take a new loan, you can get a new investment. It would be all right if there were no further questions - whether trusts, which essentially decide, think that it is good for the company to take a medium-term or short-term loan, will invest in investments, thus expanding the volume of business, i.e. production or services, and employ a number of people. Or they will think that for them is a more efficient way of bankrupting, i.e. selling property from which they will settle their claims, especially if it is kept in mind that credit is a cost of bankruptcy proceedings and comes into the first payment order of obligations. That's one aspect. The second is, what is the business bank or financial institution that will grant credit to the company that is in bankruptcy? Now here we come to the essence of my thinking that based on the reorganisation we expect too much and that some arguments that go in the direction that the reorganisation needs to inhale a new life to a particular economic entity are not realistic enough or are too optimistic. Our business banks are thinking in a way that the company that made a business loss in one period is not capable of any kind of debt. When you come to a business bank, or commercial, you have to bring a balance sheet of success, which shows that you have no loss, and that you have real estate that is multiple enough to cover the loans you want to take. Which are now social mechanisms that allow a bankruptcy manager to come into a special bank and say, "I need five or 10 million dinars of credit," I want to use that credit in that way and that way and for which it intends. If it were the way I said before, if the loan was used for an investment that would trigger or increase the size of the company, that would be fine, but if the loan was taken exclusively because of the reorganisation and application of these measures, and what is allowed, they were at peace with the creditors, then you have a problem. The question is which trustees and the question is how will the trustee -- the bankruptcy manager, negotiate on the payment of claims from these loans. I claim that in private life, or real life, this will be, not to say for sure, but almost certainly the source of corruption. We'll make a deal, the bankruptcy manager will take out a loan, he'll take care of that and that trustee, and there's no consequences. The question of the liability of bankruptcy managers here is not to be asked, it has to be understood, although I must say that in some of the provisions of this law, this responsibility is in some way raised squared, and that the bankruptcy manager will correspond to his personal property, but it is not sufficiently precise what property, in which value, whether there are any limits, some minimum. There will be bankruptcy managers who are expert in doing a certain job, who are entrepreneurs as defined here, although I find it controversial, have registered an activity called that and so on, and will do business as bankruptcy managers, but have no property at all. He doesn't have any property, lives with his parents, is a young man, a professional, perspective, educated, passed a professional exam, got a license, met all the conditions for a bankruptcy manager, but has no assets. The question is whether or not the property should be like some stock that will guarantee that some bankruptcy manager is doing the job in a way that is appropriate to this law, but, above all, the expectations of that bankruptcy manager. I wouldn't be a bankruptcy manager at any firm where they would oblige me to guarantee this way that something would happen or not. There are things that are still without the influence of the bankruptcy manager, and they can qualify as causing damage to the legal entity over which the bankruptcy proceedings are carried out. For me, that's a very difficult term. I think we should think about it; we've submitted an appropriate amendment here, and we'll see how things continue. Take, say, when you can't complete the reorganisation that we're planning and expecting here, then there's bankruptcy, or sales. Just a few more moments to keep your attention on the sale. It goes according to the rules of public competition, collecting offers, etc., but the bankruptcy manager has been authorised to sell the assets of the company and the free contract. Is that considered okay? Can we have so much trust in all those people who are going to sell with a free contract? It is one of the sources of corruption, be assured, and there is no doubt that we will also have such bankruptcy managers and such companies in which public competition and gathering of offers are being financed precisely to remove the sale price and to allow for sale by free contract. I don't think we should even allow that possibility, because it carries those dangers with it that I'm talking about, and I could go beyond that. Finally, when it comes to the order of settlement of creditors, we are talking about trustees being the most important and agreeable, but they are still the fourth payment order when it comes to settlement from bankruptcy. First of all, the cost of bankruptcy, which makes sense to me. Others are workers' and PIO's profits, and that makes sense. Why is the state in front of the trustees? Why is there even this payment order? Why does the social income service, or public income, take precedence over other creditors? Or within that second payment order that applies to workers. Here it is said, and that is progress, that workers will have the right to order others on the basis of outstanding earnings at the level of minimum personal incomes for the last year, two years for taxes and contribute on the basis of PIO. At first glance, it's good. Why is there a difference here now in pension and disability two years, and a year's wages? Why are they even talking about age? When one company goes bankrupt, especially if it is social enterprises, then it is understood that the largest number of workers and created this company and that it has the right to take advantage of other creditors in respect of all claims based on earnings. It's the position of the Socialist Party, but it's the attitude of every common man who says, "Why just a year and five years have I not received anything?" Why only two years of retirement and disability insurance, and five years of the company hasn't paid me contributions based on pension and disability insurance? That's the problem. Who's going to make that difference to connect work experience with these people? That's why I was talking about this being a complex issue and it's not just a question of this law, but of many other laws, and of the ministries and of the overall functioning of the government. I know they're poor pension funds, and I know that there are no special sources to settle these obligations based on the contribution to the integration of internships, because you have people who, at the age of 35, have waited for their company to go bankrupt and that only for one year can they connect the internship, and in four years until retirement they can't, or back four years. It's a problem that's happening or it's going to happen in real life. I don't trust many of these who will be ambassadors of the Serbian economy from July 5th. They have made many promises and I am very interested in whether we will really have ambassadors of the Serbian economy, who will bring some new investments to Serbia, which are a prerequisite for new employment, for the launch of production and services and a precondition for the acceptance of these workers who will inevitably lose their jobs under this bankruptcy law. They were out of work and under the previous law. This may not have been an essential question as to what the content of the law was, but how far to the end it was applied. If this law doesn't apply, we'll have a problem. If we apply it, we'll also have a problem, but a problem that simply has to happen. The state must be prepared only to amortise the consequences of this problem by triggering its own investments from the agrarian budget, which is a condition; the implementation of the agrarian budget and its full realization must be ensured in order to employ a number of people in agriculture, the implementation of a programme concerning capital investment and the ministry must be ensured and such a political and economic climate in Serbia must be ensured, which will primarily attract foreign investment and direct investment in our economy, which will allow these people who will truly be in a state of social danger. There's no politicizing here. This must be a matter where consensus should be reached in the state of Serbia, both in this assembly and in the ministry and political parties. Whoever comes to power sooner or later will have a problem implementing bankruptcy laws. The more ready we are to face this problem, the more appropriate the laws we are going to make are for this future situation, the more we truly appreciate the need to agree on these issues and implement the appropriate policy, the closer we will be to the goal of not having an increase in the number of unemployed from one million to two million, which is a threatening danger, rather than having a reverse process of reducing the number of unemployed from one million to 500,000, and one day perhaps to be close to that so-called. full-time. Just one sentence for bankruptcy managers and licensing. Guys, will we ever stop forming agencies? My mental circuit can no longer accept any agency. Now we have an agency to license bankruptcy managers. That agency is being supervised by the Department of Economy. Why doesn't the Department of Economy license these bankruptcy managers? What do they need an agency for? What do we need with a new employee machine now, who'll only have that job to license bankruptcy managers? What's the Ministry not doing? I have to leave my fellow Baptist time. This is where I end up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4596	The word of the Messenger of the people is Veroljub Arsic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4597	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I can say that I expected much more from this law, as it was announced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as well as by the media who did so on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, when I reviewed the bill, I saw that there was nothing new relevant to the bankruptcy process. It's about getting that procedure in some way, you might say, a little bit better in order. I heard about this speaker that this is actually a law written by the previous government and that it is not clear what this government has been waiting so long for this law to be passed. I ask the question why has this law not been passed, how do you like to say, October 6th? Because it was probably waiting for Janjusevic and Kolesar as bankruptcy managers and gravediers of the Serbian economy to finish the job, so when the affair opened, the previous government wrote one of these laws. The law itself deals more with the collection of the costs of bankruptcy proceedings than with the reconciliation of obligations towards creditors. The first to be on the list of priorities is the bankruptcy manager. The bankruptcy manager, unfortunately, will seem to become one of the main interests in Serbia, in this chaos caused by that democratic revolution that you created. Thus, Article 4(2) of the Law states that a bankruptcy administrator may be a person who has at least three years of working experience. There's no record of any work experience, except professional training, that it has to be high. He could also buy a diploma, most people know how he got to that diploma, and he got a job experience as a porter for three years, so thanks to some license (we'll see how they get it) he'll be able to manage companies that are in the most difficult situation. The fact that the bankruptcy process is more concerned with the costs of the bankruptcy manager and the compensation is seen in Article 12. The bill, where point 3 of point 1, states that the bankruptcy judge, among other things, determines the preliminary fee and the award to the bankruptcy administrator. Even before he started doing that job, Mr. Bank manager received compensation for his work. The procedure is further conducted by (Article 17.) If the company has no money, the bankruptcy manager can secure the property due to damage that can result in a higher power, but he can also raise the loan and settle the costs of his work in the company, no matter what the outcome is. That's what you see in that distribution and pay grade, I think it's article 35. A fellow MP here said he understood completely that it was okay. I do not agree with him that the first payment order includes claims on the basis of the bankruptcy procedure in which all claims which are considered to be the costs of the bankruptcy proceedings are entered in this law. That's not right. Anything else can be a priority before this, because if this is the last class of reconciliation obligations, it gives us some kind of guarantee that this bankruptcy manager will properly conduct this business of bankruptcy proceedings, because he will be fatally interested in collecting the work in bankruptcy proceedings properly. In that case, he will have to conduct a good bankruptcy procedure against all other creditors, so that he will come to receive compensation. The question arises – who is obliged to initiate bankruptcy? Under current law, this was done by the Office for Accounting and Payment until its abolition, and later by the National Bank of Serbia. It is now said, in this law – the bankruptcy procedure is initiated by a proposal from a trustee or a creditor, and then the prosecutor may, etc., come again to this part relating to the bankruptcy fees, which is – the proposer is obliged to pay an advance on the cost of the bankruptcy procedure within 10 days of the date of receipt of the court’s order, which covers the costs of the ad and the costs of the bankruptcy manager, at a level determined by the bankruptcy. The one who wrote a law like this has never filed any lawsuits in the Trade Court. He has never tried any of his claims to charge through the Trade Court, where for every submission he will pay a fee, for every store he makes he will have to pay taxes and when he gets a judicial verdict he will wait for years for that verdict to be carried out. That's why he's asking the court to settle down immediately. It would be better for me if the court were to be the last, because then he'd be in a hurry to carry out the procedure and protect his creditors from this kind of business. The law itself says in part – a bankruptcy procedure cannot be initiated against a person whose property is less than the value of a bankruptcy procedure. First, the Company Act must be done, because today on the stage we have in the business of Serbia business entities where the founder is the same man, the same person, whether it's a citizen or some other, legal persons who do the work, who go, acquire goods, buy goods, invoice goods in their company and do business through it, and the obligations to the creditors remain with that small company that has no property of their own. If it were a little bit more tampered with on that property, it would be seen that those other claims that do not represent the value of the property and how it has what to charge. However, this law prevents it from happening at the outset. You cannot initiate a bankruptcy procedure if the value of the assets of the entity over which the bankruptcy proceedings are conducted is less than the cost of the bankruptcy proceedings. These are the problems that happen in the economy. The bankruptcy procedure can now be conducted for the first time under this law against entrepreneurs, which has not been a practice so far; it was only the legal persons under which the bankruptcy proceedings could be conducted. But I now claim that entrepreneurs are placed in an unfavourable position with respect to the founders of legal entities, because the entrepreneur corresponds to his property and property of his family's members. The founder of a legal person who is a citizen can place a sign of equality, the entrepreneur only corresponds to the property of his company. It is time to abolish a legal person with limited liability and that, even before the adoption of this law, amends and supplements the Company Act and that all undertakings are fully responsible and that each founder corresponds with his or her property and property to members of his or her family for the costs or damages that his or her company can do. It's the only way to protect the economy. If we want to protect the bankruptcy directors, if we want to protect the courts, we'll pass one of these laws. As if all the orders were going, and as if future bankruptcy managers were writing this bill, there is a problem that nowhere in the law is precise as to how many companies a bankruptcy manager can at some point conduct the procedure. It's a problem that arises. You'll have a situation where 10, 15, 20, 30 companies that are in bankruptcy are one and the same man. Explain how this is possible, that companies that previously had their own director and failed to do a good job will now be able to get the bankruptcy manager on the right track to get them out of the crisis. It's not gonna happen. In Articles 100 and 102, I see for the first time a certain type of retroactiveness in the business of the company, so it is said – a legal job or legal action that is provided to one trustee by security or by a settlement which he had no right to seek or have the right to seek, but not in the way and at the time it is taken, they can be refuted if they have been taken in the last six months. It's as if it's possible to predict, if you're doing business with a company, whether it'll be able to pay six months in advance. Or, to make things worse, in Article 102. – legal business or legal action concluded, i.e. taken in the last five years prior to the submission of a proposal to initiate bankruptcy proceedings or thereafter, with the intention of damaging one or more creditors, may be refuted if the creditor of the creditor knew of the creditor’s intention. So, if someone settled their claim five years ago, in a bankruptcy procedure, that claim can be challenged and the money that belongs to him under all other legal and moral rights can still be returned. Or perhaps Article 102 has been proposed because of the five-eyed revolution and crisis headquarters that have made this situation in our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4598	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4599	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, during a number of talks that I had before proposing this law with businessmen who are thinking strategically about the Serbian economy, see it as market competitors, but with those who are fighting on the Serbian market and struggling to collect their claims, I have seen common questions and encouragement. Is it possible that it will finally cease to apply the Law on Force alignment, bankruptcy and liquidation, a law that was passed in 1989 and which really represents a relic of one way of thinking, a philosophy in the economy that those who do not work well do not have a business vision, a strategy that does not pay their obligations are protected in long-term bankruptcy procedures just to preserve social peace and maintain fictitious jobs. The basic problem in this way of thinking was that the debtor was protected. This Law on Force settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation treated creditors only when it was necessary to obtain an opinion. So, the debtor was protected and artificially maintained in economic life, an economic operator who could not compete in the market, who had no business vision and strategy and tried to participate in the market with a single doping in the form of financial support, and the real problems were not solved. The fact is that the new proposed law makes a copernicus twist in the position of the trustee. This is the first such law in our legal system that really treats the trustee in the right way - it is damaged in this business relationship, it has a claim to other entities, and, unlike the current law, where the trustee's committee was a discriminatory body, where it was only consulted, where it was not important to take part in making key decisions when asking a creditor, under the proposed bankruptcy act, trustees make key decisions on the fate of a creditor. They are most interested in resolving the creditor's status by either bankruptcy, sale of property, or reorganisation, and how they estimate that it is in their interest, i.e. that more and better to settle, will make such a decision. What is repeatedly pointed out here is that bankruptcy proceedings are long-running, seven years long, only to preserve social peace. But the fact is that such a fictitiously preserved social peace quickly turned into a social bomb, and we have the opportunity to face it precisely in today's situation in the Serbian economy. I hope that is why starting to apply this law is one real face-to-face, with the fact that most of the Serbian economy is in fact bankrupt, but it is also a strategic law because it opens up the possibility that only those who have the opportunity to compete on the market, that by their business strategy, they manage to stay on the Serbian market and operate positively. I'm going to stand out what's important is the change in this law. These are – the introduction of two new binding bodies into bankruptcy proceedings, which are a meeting of trustees and trustees' committees, and the reorganisation as one of the paths of recovery of the creditor, and at the same time the settlement of the claim of creditors. It is important to note that the relationship of bankruptcy entities has changed compared to the Law on Force alignment, bankruptcy and liquidation. In the current law, we had the advantage of a bankruptcy council. Important and important decisions were made by a bankruptcy judge, while the bankruptcy manager, who was in most cases neither competent nor professional, conducted certain matters and in fact strategic decisions were made outside his framework. Under the current law, the bankruptcy administrator, who will receive the license, will be educated and will have really great operational powers but also great responsibility. He will indeed be the manager of the bankruptcy debt and will be able to make key decisions in the business. The bankruptcy judge and the creditor shall be left with supervision and decisions when it comes to agreement in the draft general division of the bankruptcy. By applying the Law on Force settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation, he did not have any defined deadline for the execution of certain bankruptcy operations. In contrast to that law, the proposed law has very clearly defined and precise deadlines – when the first confiding assembly must be held; when the previous bankruptcy procedure must be completed; when a settlement must be carried out; within what time period a plan for reorganisation must be submitted and when a settlement from the bankruptcy must be made. There were also some projections that the bankruptcy procedure could last for the longest year, which is indeed an encouragement to the situation we now have. We have clearly defined conditions when it can be considered that there is incompetence to pay, fewer reasons why previous bankruptcy proceedings can be conducted, which is very important because the previous bankruptcy proceedings have stalled the integrity of the proceedings. What is important – finally to be left out of our legal system so-called. forced alignment, which was, in fact, a major problem and a question of delaying the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings. As far as the issues of reorganisation are concerned, I must point out that the measures proposed in this reorganisation plan are very clear and that they really represent the way for the recovery of the debtor. There have been multiple doubts here whether the board of creditors and trustees will accept the bankruptcy debtor entering the reorganisation, whether they have the security of the collection of their claims. Well, if it is looked at in Article 127, which discusses the reorganisation plan, point 9) clearly states that the reorganisation plan must contain financial projection, balance sheet and cash flow report over the next five years. It's right at the trustee's assembly that this is going to be debated. If those who are most interested in the fate of the creditor assess that one of the reorganisation measures, and more are mentioned here: the closure of non-profitable facilities, the change of activity, the conversion of debt into action capital, some more interesting, or the acquisition of new investment, can bring such an enterprise, which has potential, to recover, to the situation to achieve such a positive success that their claims would be better charged than to go into bankruptcy, it is absolutely certain that such restructuring plans will be accepted. In the middle I come from, which is Bucky Palanca, there are companies that are in a difficult situation, e.g. "Majevica", TK "Dunav", "Marina", "Mercur", however, it is necessary to get into one of these processes of reorganisation to get these companies on their feet and to really keep the job rights, for employees to actually receive earnings, to have paid contributions, and not as it is now – most of these jobs are fictitious, do not exist, and employees outside them are found in various ways so-called. The gray market. When it comes to selling, cashing in the bankruptcy, all three ways that are proposed here provide certainty that bankruptcy will be cashed, but I had one personal dilemma when it comes to the position of creditors in the bankruptcy process. Compared to the strategic definition in the law itself, their position is increasing. In the bankruptcy process, their position is somewhat weaker, so it may have been a better solution to strengthen their position on this matter, when it comes to the opposition, the possibility of objecting to the amount of funds achieved when cashing in the bankruptcy. In any case, the DS will support this bill. We believe that it is a reform, strategic law in the Serbian economy, that it is a face-to-face with reality. We will have a situation to see which companies on the Serbian market are competitive, which can compete, but this is the only way to finally settle the situation on the Serbian market. I believe that it will represent a way to heal the Serbian economy and that those companies that have a strategy and competitive production, good management, after solving all these major problems – outstanding claims, internal debt in our country, will be able to compete successfully in the next period and on the European market, which we all seek.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4600	The People's MP Vuceta Toskovic has the word, and let the MP Nikola Novakovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4601	Dear People's MPs, I had no doubt that this bill had not been written by the previous regime, because, with the Labour Act, this bankruptcy law would most likely ruin the little bit of our working economy. I have the impression that this bankruptcy law has been written by people who have never worked in business organizations, so if that bankruptcy is applied in any organization, that organisation will not be reorganised, but will go bankrupt, and in the first days of bankruptcy. Thinking that the privatisation of the previous government was carried out according to their idea and given the draft bankruptcy law, as it is, the co-operation of that Labour Act and this proposal for a bankruptcy law, to destroy Serbia's economy as much as possible. Instead of adopting some kind of bankruptcy law in order to reorganise a company in some case, I think this bankruptcy law has been passed in order to bring this work organisation, based on the Labour Act and on some of the marifettelus that are already being run in our economy. In writing this bill, the legislator may have had to invite some people from the economy to call on bankruptcy managers, bankruptcy judges, judges of the bankruptcy council, in order to bring this bill to the benefit of the work organisation where it will apply. The legislator proposes in this bankruptcy, in a bankruptcy procedure, that the powers of a bankruptcy administrator, a bankruptcy judge and creditors be exercised. I think the previous bankruptcy law was more practical and applicable in companies where bankruptcy proceedings are introduced, for the simple reason that there are various problems in the conduct of bankruptcys, which are not any other draft bankruptcy laws introduced into any point. There are companies that haven't worked, practically, for three, four years. The workers are on the desk, and now you're initiating bankruptcy. How can you start a bankruptcy, who will pay? Trustees won't start bankruptcy because it's a bigger asset. The trustee wants to collect his mortgage, he wants to secure himself. It is in their interest to introduce bankruptcy as soon as possible, but with bankruptcy, i.e. with liquidation. The previous law was, in some ways, better when it comes to both trustee and bankruptcy. Watch out for one thing – a bankruptcy manager cannot run an organization that is in such depth that without any help he cannot start production. That law does not speak of labour bankruptcy, but speaks of liquidation, but some unwritten law was in the then commercial courts to quietly conduct labour bankruptcy. In both this and this case, when it comes to reorganization, I doubt there is a possibility of reorganizing this work organisation, for the simple reason that someone who has come to the bottom and that has on all sides of the mortgage, there is no possibility of reorganizing, or instituting a labour bankruptcy. I'm saying big powers were given to the bankruptcy manager. I get the impression, when it comes to bankruptcy licenses, that we intend to train bankruptcy managers for 10 or 20 years and that we have so many business organizations that we're going to introduce bankruptcy for 20 years. I sincerely hope that in a year, a year and a half, as this bill speaks of bankruptcy and reorganisation of businesses, this will end in about a year or a year or a half. What are we going to do with these bankruptcy managers when they're some professional bankruptcy managers? Many of them are likely to leave their jobs because they are tempting to receive bankruptcy directors in some business organisations, as creditors pay bankruptcy administrators to be able to rule them. Therefore, I see no reason why this bill of bankruptcy is included in the agenda of the Serbian Parliament, and today it is on the agenda, because such a law, such as this proposal of the bankruptcy law, cannot be applied to any economic organisation where bankruptcy is introduced, only because members of this bill have been adopted to sell the company as soon as possible, so that the creditors can settle down from that bankruptcy mass. When it comes to this bankruptcy mass, I must point out that many agencies that have assessed capital to a variety of economic organisations have to the point that they have brought down capital to this extent that such sales of our companies, capital organisations, are happening, so that it can be bought for about three or ten euros. We must try to solve the problem of this bankruptcy law in order to be able to implement something that is said in this bill – reorganisation or labour bankruptcy, so that we can have the hope of starting some business organization out of the dead and that we can hire our people. In such a way and with such a bill, I do not believe that any young man of ours will find a job in any enterprise where bankruptcy proceedings are introduced, so I have the impression that this bill should, if it is proposed, be removed from the agenda and that the previous law should be implemented and that the authority should...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4602	I'm taking a break until 3:00. [[After a break - 15.55 hours.]] Dear People's MPs, before we begin to determine if there is a quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to put in their MPs' cards. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 87 MPs are present in the hall. We're continuing our work. The People's Messenger Nikola Novakovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Svetislav Krstic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4604	Dear ladies of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have one of the very important system procedural laws ahead of us, so before I begin to praise him, I will appeal to Mr. Minister, who is here, to deliver to us the other two missing persons to complete the picture as soon as possible. It's about the law on executive proceedings and the law on litigation. Only then will we have a clear picture of how good this bankruptcy law is. It's not easy to praise something that's good, it's a lot easier to defile even what's good, so I'm also going to say that personally, as a lawyer with 30 years of standing right in this matter, I have certain objections to that law, and the first among them is that it seems to me that the law is mild. Otherwise, I am a supporter of the "dura lex, sed lex" -- "sharp law, but the law" and I think that criminal provisions may not cover everything that should be, but given that the deadlines provided for by this law are extremely short, and I am sure that they will cause some problems in practice respecting these deadlines, maybe this is a good solution, that over time we can see whether the courts can wash out such dynamics and this kind of speed of implementation of bankruptcy procedures, and only then can we determine more serious sanctions or that we can eventually get a new proposal with eventually modified deadlines. I'm not sure the courts can respect this speed as it is with this law, as far as the deadlines are concerned, set. The second thing that bothers me personally is a certain priority of the state to collect claims. In fact, it's true that the state is in principle the biggest trustee, but such a top trustee who has countless other opportunities not to get into a position to be the biggest trustee. However, through payment orders, although the right of the state is relatively limited, it exists, and they are true creditors, who may have come to that position with their indiscretion, behind the state. That bothers me a little bit. Everything else is great, everything else is very efficient, everything else is very easy and very clear. We have a nice and quality law ahead of us. I am particularly impressed with the law on licensing of bankruptcy managers, although this point is not on the agenda now. I think it's high time that such a law was passed, and I suppose, apart from the directory as the official register of licensed bankruptcy managers, one public database will be seen very quickly, which will allow us to determine at any moment and see who these people are who are going to make up one body and from which to choose and name bankruptcy managers. If we call things their name and use the right terms, then I can't say that I don't mind trying to pass through the bankruptcy act of my colleagues from the largest opposition party, one social note. I don't think it has anything to do with each other, that, on the contrary, it's the end of every social story. The second issue is the responsibility and other consequences of the opening, management and conclusion of a bankruptcy procedure by workers. So I don't see how logically these two things even connect, bankruptcy and possibly its impact on social policy and vice versa. The company works or doesn't work, it can work or it can't work, and we have to be absolutely clear here once. When something ends, it really needs to be closed down. This way we have countless wells in Serbia that are dried up. We maintain them, paint them, pray them, but there is no water in them. At last, they need to be properly immersed, clogged, opened up a memorial-casm where there are conditions to do so, and arranged the whole field properly. The G17 plus will certainly vote for this law, because these remarks I personally have are not serious enough to cause any opposite conclusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4605	The word of the Messenger of the people is Svetislav Krstic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4606	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I would just like to comment on the last few sentences of my distinguished colleague from Novi Sad, I am referring to colleague Nikola. He said he didn't see any connection between bankruptcy and social policy, so bankruptcy is the end. I think the word "broker" is experienced in one of the wrong connotations. Here, under bankruptcy, we're about to liquidate, and it's a forced liquidation of a particular firm. The bankruptcy should be a procedure, among other things, for healing those companies that can be cured, not for forced liquidation, bankruptcy and so forth. What happens to the people who are employed in that company after the bankruptcy and remain at the bureau, or are out of a job? It's obviously one aspect that needs to be taken care of. Of course, it doesn't mean that the bankruptcy law, which defines the bankruptcy procedure, has to end this whole problem. There are other laws dealing with social policy elements, but in any case, the bankruptcy process itself must mean that social moment. I would just like to remind some of the colleagues who remember, some have forgotten it, and they probably didn't know that in the early 1990s a wave of reforms, a wave of privatisation, and that we were not behind in Serbia for some republics of the former SFRY and countries in the environment. I was a protagonist in one bankruptcy, it may be the biggest bankruptcy process or one of the biggest ones that was ever done in our country, which is the bankruptcy of the Synthetic rubber factory in Elemir. In the process that lasted less than a year, it was done relatively quickly, in a short time, a bankruptcy was made and the factory was healed. One great loser became one of the most productive factories in the Panchemic Petrochem. Why am I saying this? Before the bankruptcy started in the Synthetic rubber factory, about 980 workers were employed, 443 workers were left after bankruptcy, and what about the difference - for those 500 workers was created an adequate social programme and these people did not lose their jobs. So, all the participants in bankruptcy, Vojvodjanska Banka, Pancheva Petrochemija, SO Zrenjanin, etc. They committed themselves and designed a program to take care of people who had lost their jobs because of bankruptcy, because of the healing of the large factory. Therefore, I think that the observation brought by my esteemed colleague Todorovic in front of the SPS is that this law does not take into account the social aspect, a very serious remark and that this whole problem should be complemented by the relevant norms and laws that regulate this social aspect. I said bankruptcy is no big deal. Namely, in market economies, bankruptcy is a day-to-day event, some companies go bankrupt, some companies are founded, and that's how it all happens. If we take bankruptcy as a way to liquidate companies that don't have a future, then that's fine. If we take bankruptcy as a way to clear up space for some godmother's or "burazer's" privatisation, then that's not right. We are afraid that the bankruptcy story is about simply trying to achieve a certain way to speed up privatisation, but again at the heart of the interests of those who are employed in businesses. I could give an example of the privatisation of Sartide. Before privatisation, "Sartid"... You know about it, it says in the paper, now I've seen in some newspapers on two pages, in Serbian, in Latin and in English, in Latin, there's some text in which the owner of Sartida, US Steel, Serbia writes about himself, etc. However, I would like to remind you of some facts, and this could probably be said in more detail by Mr. Vlahovic, that in the case of privatisation, he had preceded bankruptcy. The bankruptcy was made under very suspicious circumstances, so Sartid was bought for very little money. I think there will probably be work to do and others dealing with other points of view with these processes, but I want to say it won't be good if bankruptcy is used as something that needs to create conditions for this "burazer privatisation". And I'd say something else, because I see that I have a few more minutes, which is about this problem -- there's an impression that if someone came from Mars and listened to some of the former government's representatives, they'd get the impression that with DOS or DS, everything starts, that privatisation starts, that reforms just starts. That's not true, I'll remind you that the largest privatisation in our country so far is privatisation of living space. Buying apartments is one big privatisation, which certainly created conditions for people living in those apartments to gain certain security for themselves and their families. Also, when we talk about privatisation, we must not forget that in our country there is more than 80% of arable land, meadows, forests - private property; please, and how can we talk about privatisation, only if someone thinks someone else should come from abroad now and buy out of these privates, our people, why these fields, meadows, and that would be some other privatisation. So we don't have the space to talk about some kind of privatisation. So it is not true that economic reform, privatisation, etc. began in 2000. When it comes to the results of the economy in the previous period and the results of the government's work on which it has often been spoken here by DS representatives, I repeat what I said a month ago or two days after this speaker... (President: Mr. Baptizer, I apologize, time, please, since it is eight minutes, you have fulfilled the bonus, finish. Just five more seconds. According to the Heritage Foundation, which indexes economies, the success of the world's countries in 2003, Mr. Minister, our economy is not indexed among 155 countries; in 2002 we were in 148th place. For comparison, Albania is in 80th place, Macedonia is in a higher position, and this is all about what the economy was like in the previous three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4607	The word has a People's MP... Excuse me, replica, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I came out to remind the MPs that the DS has not been in power since 4 March 2004, given that there are many uninformed in this assembly; the other day we saw that some MPs were uninformed about who the President of the Republic of Serbia is, and I will remind you, this is Mr. Tadic, elected on Sunday, and today we see that, due to the ignorance, MPs are speaking to me - Mr. Minister. I haven't been a minister in four or five months. The former government is not the topic of this National Assembly, but is the topic of the current government of the Republic of Serbia and the results that the current government is accomplishing. More specifically, the theme of this assembly is the bankruptcy law, which I sincerely admit that we prepared it, presented a year ago, and which I honestly say will support it if it remains unchanged. If you're interested in what happens to bankruptcy cases like "Sartid", since the previous speaker belongs to a political group that highly appreciates the union's opinion, it's best to ask the union of the same company who sent a very clear message to their statements - leave us alone, for the first time we have a perspective, we have a future, for the first time we're real paid for what we do, for the first time we have a company that doesn't make losses, but regularly pays for its business obligations, for the first time we have a company that doesn't just return regular, current obligations, regularly pays salaries, but pays and taxes to the state. The company today, not according to the government that you continue to talk about because of possession syndrome, but rather, according to the prime minister from this government, the largest Serbian exporter. And if there have been any malfeasances by those who have conducted bankruptcy proceedings, and I remind you, there are thousands of bankruptcy proceedings in Serbia today, which are conducted independently from the executive authority, then those who have possibly participated must bear, of course, legal sanctions. It is very bad that this speaker, on behalf of the protection of workers, on behalf of a better standard of living, is used precisely against these same workers and against that same increased standard of living for our population. We should not warn you about this, but you are warned by those. a worker whose name you speak for and whose interests you allegedly stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4609	You're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Please, just don't mention names, so you don't cause replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4610	I only reported for one reason, and that's because the previous speaker mentioned that he was probably referring to the SPS, we have some obsession syndrome, which you're not a psychologist after all, you're a psychiatrist, and maybe you are, so I don't believe that qualification is true. So you came out of the domain of the area you know. I mean, we don't have any obsession syndrome. It's simply our job, as an SPS, to take care of the social moment in our number one program. We observe everything, all the laws, everything you've done, what this government does, through a social moment. A social moment means taking care of a man. Well, I guess people are both the beginning and the end of this whole story that we're all involved in. As for "Sartida" and the statement that the union is thrilled with what happened with "Sartid," I'm not so sure about that. Until recently, on television and in the media, we had a strike that lasted weeks and so on. So there's not everything exactly the way we just heard it from the previous speaker. So it's not all like that, and nobody should be angry if there are different views. I think we're here to find a solution together, not to force everyone to think he's only right. That's exactly what I was talking about. The former government and the former minister think it all started with them. That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4611	The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, and let the MP Slobodan Pajovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4612	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the former regime and representatives of the former regime are not formally in power, but it is also clear that we are all aware of the tragic consequences that the government has left on the citizens of Serbia. It is also clear that we from the SRS are well aware that the government of this regime is the continuity of the government of the previous regime. So there was no need for this much today for this speaker to prove that this legal text was a proposal from the former government. We know you're the same government. You're just different now. We also know that this and these laws will quickly put both of them at the bottom of the former. It is interesting that we are talking today about the bankruptcy law at a time when Serbia has no economy minister, when the most significant ministry thanks to the will and desire of Vojislav Kostunica was left without a minister. We from the SRS also know that Mr. Marsican has fled this post, running away from responsibility, because he has promised Serbian citizens to carry out an audit of 82 already made privatisation. Normally, he can't do it, just for the reason I said it at first. It is also true that the minister of justice has something to say about the bankruptcy process, but above all about the bankruptcy proceedings that took place in Serbia to this day, starting from the beginning of 2000. There is much Justice Minister to say about abuses in trade courts, there is a minister of justice to explain here that up to ten days ago, the President of the Trade Court was Goran Kljajevic, known for a number of bankruptcy proceedings, known and described in the book of Milena Arežina "The Day of Issue, the Night of Cheating" as the President of the Crisis Headquarters, who fell into the Business Court with Milet Lukovic at the helm, known for the malversions of the goods houses, "Electrotechn", for the sale of the best locals "Electrotechne" in the elite parts of Belgrade, Stanko Sutotic Canet, known for the "Mercedes-Benz" affair and the privatisation of Mercedes-Benz, etc. That's what the minister of justice should be here to explain, not to talk about the bankruptcy law, which he's really not qualified to talk about. The minister of justice, however, said the law is the first step in resolving economic problems. If we know that there are currently thousands of businesses in Serbia, then this law is not the first but the last step towards the definitive destruction of the Serbian economy. A number of praises have been expressed here by the ruling coalition and the minister of justice on the text of this law. He says, among other things, that the order of settlement of creditors is made up with the consent of representative unions. No one has ever explained to this assembly or the citizens of Serbia what these are and what representative unions are, which are your union criteria. Are those who join you in the election campaign and support you in the election campaign? I assume you thought they were representative of you. You say, the minister emphasizes this, that the bankruptcy manager corresponds personally to his assets in the bankruptcy process. No member of the law has explained in any way. All of these praises would sound nice if in the end there was no hiding behind all of this the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, i.e. the formal and official creation of a lobby for criminal activities and theft in Serbia's economy. This law did not explain what a guarantee of the quality of the work of bankruptcy managers is. There's been a rumor here that there's been malfeasance in so far's bankruptcy proceedings. It is not disputed, but if a new law is passed, then that law must have provisions that will guarantee that there will be no further malfeasance. This law does not predict such a thing. It does not stand in this law in which the Serbian economy will protect itself from new chains and locks that have been intensively placed on Serbian factories since 5 October 2000. The law did not explain in any way the Serbian economy will protect itself from Zoran Janjusevic and similar and already mentioned Goran Kljajevic. It is also not explained in the law how the criminal bankruptcy at the Belgrade Shipyard with Janjusevic will be resolved in the main role, how the criminal bankruptcy of Elektrotechne and Stanko Subotić Cane will be resolved in the process, how criminal bankruptcy will be resolved in the Robing Houses "Belgrade", "Bek", "Inex". Why don't you tell the truth to the citizens of Serbia, that this law is actually the third and final stage of thief's privatisation in Serbia? You sold what could be sold in the tender, then auctions, so the companies that you unfortunately brought into the phase that you can't sell out on these two grounds will be sold out through bankruptcy, again, and by applying this law you'll leave another million workers on the street and out of work. If that's what you really want, we know it is, it would be fair to tell the citizens of Serbia. With this law, you will sell out all economic resources in the country that are still in value. This is definitely a continuation of criminalisation in Serbia and an obvious evidence of the continuity of the former and current regime. One part of the voters in Serbia managed to convince Tadic, Karic and Kostunica that they had joined together to help Serbia, but it is true today you are already showing this law that they have joined together to add new chains and locks to as many businesses in Serbia as possible, that they have joined only for the sake of naked authorities and for the definitive destruction of Serbia. Because of all this, the SRS won't vote for this law. We have submitted one number of amendments to the law, a total of 33 amendments. And imagine how perfectly you did this, that no amendment was accepted by the government. Neither did those of the formal former regime. In particular, in this law, I will list only a few of the most drastic members, otherwise we will talk about it when we discuss details. For example, the conditions for the appointment of a bankruptcy manager – you have listed here such a vague formulation, which says nothing, instead of saying that a person who has high professional equipment and a working experience in management of the economy, that along with it is a judicial expert, can be a bankruptcy manager; we really don't see what else to add to that for a person to be a bankruptcy manager. In a limit that cannot be a bankruptcy manager, you obviously deliberately left out that it cannot be selected, appointed and placed in the authorities of the state administration, administrative and similar organisations, so that you can, through local self-government, destroy and sell out the Serbian economy and leave the citizens without a job. I won't talk about the details anymore, we'll talk in part two, because my other colleagues have something to say about this law. Now I ask you, Mr. Chairman, to establish the quorum, because it's obvious that I spoke in an O.R. where there is no quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4613	Call the MPs from the hallway to enter the O.R. I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. Since we don't have a quorum, I'm taking a break of 10 minutes. [[After a break.]] I realize we have a quorum to work with, we have 85 MPs in the O.R. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic, and let Dragan Colic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is finally in the process and before us a good bill of law. So far, all laws have been passed by emergency procedure, although there was no reason to do so. This law doesn't apply. There are all reasons for him to be brought by emergency procedure, because it is crucial for the recovery of our economy. It's a shame this law wasn't passed a year ago, because, as we've heard before, there was an identical text prepared by the previous government. The only difference between these two proposals is that one chapter concerning bankruptcy proceedings with a foreign element has been added. By the way, that's a good addition. The Democratic Party – Boris Tadic retained the principle of voting for good laws. And this time, in that sense, there will be a constructive opposition, because the people recognize it, salute it, and as you have seen, they can reward it. This bill, first of all, aimed at making bankruptcy proceedings more efficient and rational. This is especially because the previous Law on Force settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation has made bankruptcy proceedings run and run for several years, so it has completely discouraged the creditors to initiate bankruptcy proceedings, they have lost all hope that they can collect their claim. The adoption of this law would give us a much more efficient bankruptcy procedure. This is primarily done by giving creditors an active and significant role in this process. It is natural that creditors are most interested in the conclusion of this process and that it takes a short while. The law provides for compulsory insolvency proceedings to be conducted by a congregation of creditors and by a trustee committee. Through these bodies, trustees are allowed to influence any action in the bankruptcy process, or no significant action can be taken without the confidentiality of the trustee. What is particularly significant is that creditors are given the opportunity to decide at the first confidential hearing whether the bankruptcy procedure will go through bankruptcy of the creditor, i.e. to assess whether the procedure goes through the reorganisation of the company. For the efficiency of the bankruptcy procedure of decisive importance, the paper in this proposal is a law relating to reorganisation as a form of bankruptcy. This created the possibility of negotiations between creditors and debtors, and the possibility of them forming different forms of alignment and ending this procedure peacefully. The measures for the implementation of the reorganisation plan are diverse. They're for example. the conversion of debt into action capital, the closure of non-profitable parts, the disposal of debts, the taking of new loans, the change of activity, etc. The way and content of the plan is prescribed, so that creditors have a detailed insight into the above-mentioned reorganisation plan. On the basis of the reorganisation institute, the possibility is created to qualify for the work of companies that have not completely failed, i.e. the bankruptcy process ends very quickly. I would point out as a good newspaper in this law and that the result of the opening of bankruptcy is not the automatic termination of the employment relationship of workers in the company, but is one reason why the job contract is cancelled. So, jobs are kept to the extent possible. The bankruptcy manager, as a bankruptcy authority, under this proposal for a law, is chosen by far more stringent criteria, which will contribute to a better quality and more efficient work, and this will also contribute to the adequate compensation provided for the bankruptcy managers. By taking effect on this law, we will finally clear up with non-proliferation companies, we will be able to re-organize companies that are capable of doing so and finally create clear images that economic operators are able to function. Trustees will partially settle their claims and a more favourable climate will be formed for new investments, as investors will know they are operating with healthy entities and will be able to collect their claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4616	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic, and let Branimir Trajkovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4617	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is another in front of the National Assembly in a series of proposed laws that certainly will not do any good in the sphere of economy and economy. The government of the Republic of Serbia creates an illusion that something is being done, that something is happening, that it is active, that it is implementing reforms, and the truth is that there is disagreement in the government, that the prime minister has less and less authority every next day. Coalition partners do not hesitate to work maximumly to realise their interests. This law should lay down the conditions and the way in which the bankruptcy proceedings are initiated and implemented. The bankruptcy process would involve bankruptcy, i.e. reorganisation. Under bankruptcy, trustees are meant to settle by selling the total assets of the creditor. The reorganisation shall include the settlement of trustees in a manner and under the conditions of a specific reorganisation plan. You have your experts, who theoretically, by example in Europe, write bill proposals according to European standards, and create the illusion that this is practical and that it is important and beneficial for the citizens of Serbia. The reality is completely different. Reality is cruel. The minister of justice finds and says in his presentation – we all know the state of the Serbian economy. This is the first step to regulate that matter. We have a "modern law" before us, according to the minister. The fact is that you are an option that represents the current power and you were part of the former regime of which Boris Tadic is a figure. You brought them to power, and Vlahovic thanked you very much, and associated them with ignorance. We don't know which of you are uninformed. Thank you very much. Your pre-election promises have been reforms in all areas of society, a solution to all citizens' problems, a better life, entering Europe. Instead, privatisation, but robbery, wealth of the ruling oligarchy, affair after affair, workers outside the factory, to factory gates chains and locks, with a tendency to further collapse of the Serbian economy, a future without hope. The draft bankruptcy law will not bring any improvement in this sphere. This is certain, as it is certain, that almost all members of the law are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What's certain? It is certain that the government is ahead of bankruptcy, but we have a law on bankruptcy; that the National Assembly is before bankruptcy. The bell burned when the chairman called, cried out for MPs of the ruling coalition to come, but they are nowhere to be found. Maybe they're at sea, maybe they're in the spas, in the mountains. What hurts the most seems to be Serbia ahead of bankruptcy. Who will take care of the workers, who will solve their problems, who will benefit from the sale of Sartida to U.S. Steel and Thomas Kelly, how much increased the accounts of Kolesar and similar to him and whose members and representatives are; who tricked the customers from Germany and enabled U.S. Steel and Thomas Kelly to buy Sartid for the bogeyman, for which commission, who devalued the value of Sartida. A number of questions that are certainly not answered by the draft bankruptcy law. All these questions will be answered by the SRS when citizens will soon take over power in Serbia and form their own government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4618	The word is by MP Branimir Trajkovic. He's not here. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Vukic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Miroslav Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4619	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as many laws as the various explanations of certain political parties why they will vote for him or not. I hear some in the upper benches need help, so if so, please help them. As far as this law is concerned, the SRS is, which is in principle, especially when you're in opposition, especially when you're the only opposition party not only here, but when you're the only opposition force in Serbia, it's yours to criticise and we do that, submitted more than 30 amendments to this law. As I understand it, none of them were accepted because the government felt that the law was almost ideal. I have to point out one phenomenon that we have been facing since the arrival of DOS to power, which is that bankruptcy proceedings are used as the last or the last stage in stealing and seizing social property and giving into the hands of a small number of people who have money, who have no idea that they have the right value in mind, or that they single out enough money for that kind of enterprise and company. Today, about a thousand bankruptcy proceedings are being conducted in Serbia. I know these guys are nervous about waiting for "Josip Broza" to inauguration in a few days, but hold on. Let me inform you, Broz died in the '80s and be polite. So, there are currently about a thousand bankruptcy procedures in Serbia, about 30,000 companies meeting bankruptcy conditions at the moment. What's going to happen? What happened in the previous period – when the bankruptcy manager made a deal with both the director and the people who wanted to quickly implement the theft privatisation, such as that done, in "Serbia", so because of the debt of 359 000 dinars, a bankruptcy procedure was carried out until the end, one company was destroyed, why was it given, then we will wonder how and why in Serbia today we have chains and locks on all companies, businesses and factories. The scariest thing is that they say that chains and locks will be taken down by those who have put chains and locks on the Serbian economy, on Serbian factories, those who have destroyed it for decades. Those who are the worst in Serbia, during the previous four years, have robbed citizens of Serbia, the worst and worst crimes they have done to Serbian citizens, today they are the ones who are saying we need this, because this will ensure that we cover the budget deficit, we lack 16.4 billion, and that is where we will find the money. I have to say, there are a lot of examples where and how bankruptcy in the most terrible and worst way possible is abused. The bankruptcy procedure was misused particularly where exclusive business spaces existed in the centres of large cities, especially in downtown Belgrade: "Beko", "Electrotechna" and many other companies, so where all debts, or two business spaces, could be settled by selling one business space, and they have over 50, 60 or 100. It wasn't a deliberate approach before the bankruptcy procedure, but it was a bankruptcy so we could rob it for a reason, so we could kidnap it. Of course, it is interesting now that representatives of the former regime have the courage to be publicly called the opposition in this parliament, so they say – we will support this, since we are voting in principle, as constructive, for all the laws. Don't deceive the people. You vote because you must not vote otherwise, not because it is a good law or a bad one, but because they have turned their hands and told you – now you must keep quiet, support for God and thank those who helped you get most of the votes on Sunday. But you "below the grain" and on the side you organize and tell a story about how some others are campaigning against the government and making arrangements how you'll do it after September. This type of account-making without innkeepers is not good and is not in the interest of Serbian citizens. You may convince someone, but not those who follow politics and know you well; we know well what lies, lies, and deceptions you are prepared to commit. By yesterday you were telling us - we're going to the white Schengen list. Here, you win, we get a visa for Romania. We'll get a visa for Bulgaria, and we won't be able to go to Bulgaria without a visa anymore. You said there'd be isolation. Of course, it wouldn't be anything. And you lied about it. You spoke: We shall live better, we shall not import the prayer. I hear a huge salad contingent is being imported into Serbia tomorrow, a huge amount of salad entering Serbia tomorrow. That was said by those who supported Tadic and said – as soon as Tadic becomes president, he will no longer be. Everything you said, you lied. Of course, Serbian citizens see it today. Unfortunately, it'll be a while, two or three months, after which we'll have to make up for all of this, to prevent that kind of robbery. And it was purposely left out in this law that it was impossible for the appointed, elected and appointed persons to be bankrupt managers, so that we could have the Kolesar again and remain in key places to rob the Serbian economy, in the abduction of Serbian factories, in destroying everything that workers in this country have created for decades, it was deliberately designed and left behind. That's what Serbian citizens won't be able to take anymore. There's nothing left of great promises, strikes at every turn, because people just want you to make a tenth of what you promised a few days ago. Do it faster or better, otherwise you won't be looking forward to the position of this new Joseph Broz, who likes to invite 250 MPs to come to him for worship instead of coming to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The people know that 24 years have passed since then, and to inform you once again, Comrade Tito has died, and Serbia just wants to live better without one or the other, without all of you having a bit of a fight here, and in the end it turns out that you are the same and there is no difference between you. Now everyone in Serbia knows. It's you on the one hand, and on the other hand it's us. Since you are unable to fulfill any of your electoral promises, the time has come for those who will keep their promises to the people and who will make a improvement for the citizens of Serbia and for this troubled country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4620	The People's MP Miroslav Zivkovic has the word, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4621	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Mr. Minister, MPs of the G17 plus do not have the slightest dilemma regarding the need to pass such a law as the bankruptcy law. We have no doubt that this law must have been passed much earlier. Its importance is reflected above all in what counterpart Novakovic said is one of the basic reform procedural laws. During this debate, we have heard numerous objections from some MPs, and we agree with some. We are aware that this law is not the most perfect. Such laws simply do not exist. However, we are aware of the fact that this law represents a strong qualitative step forward in relation to previous laws. What's this about? One bad, desperately bad law on forced alignment, bankruptcy, and liquidation is often poorly interpreted, cataractly applied. The bankruptcy proceedings carried out by him were inefficient, slow, some institutes were introduced that did not have their foothold in law but in court practice. Of course, I'm referring to a known working bankruptcy here. As far as the Institute of Working Banks is concerned, I believe that this institute is not so bad in theory. However, its application is catastrophic, and we from G17 plus honor ourselves by giving things the kind of names they deserve. The application of labour bankruptcy was very often criminal. The scheme under which the working bankruptcy functioned took place in connection with the director, the bankruptcy manager, the bankruptcy judge. It is very easy to note that the director through various transactions, through the conclusion of certain contracts, is worth the company's assets, leading to bankruptcy, and then the so-called "scene" enters the scene. A bankruptcy manager and a bankruptcy judge who only finishes the job. The first thing they did - they fired a number of workers, and the other workers allegedly paid contributions and profits. They then stopped paying their contributions first, and in the end they ended up making money. During all this time the assets of the company were sold at much lower prices, sold to privileged customers. That's what we ordered. In our program, we suggested that bankruptcy was misused for a kind of privatisation, so-called. silent privatisations. Because of this, we have advocated that one new legislation, one modern law, these procedures should be governed in a way which is primarily marked by a country that is aiming for Europe. I think that we now have such a law in front of us, a law that gives first of all a clear definition of procedures, deadlines, powers; I will not repeat what is already said, but a law that provides for a quick and efficient procedure, which will protect the trustee, not the debtor, and what is important, a law that will protect the worker, or which has a very express social category. I think it's one of the basic achievements this law will have if it's adopted, which I don't doubt. Because of all this, the G17 Plus MP club will vote for the law and thus show again that it advocates European organised Serbia, for Serbia in which some things will finally be put in place. These days, we're covered with statements from an MP's group about some chains and locks. I've heard from some well-informed circles that your chains and locks will be first removed from a bakery where bread will be sold for three dinars, and that bakery is otherwise called "the twilight zone."
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4622	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and let the MP Slobodan Mihajlovic be prepared. Natasa Jovanovic, MP. I thought you didn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4623	I hear excellently, Mr. Chairman, but when Mr. Nikolic, who won the vote of 1.500,000 voters and who is the real president of Serbia for the patriotic part of Serbia, is really inappropriate to call me several times to go out and insist that he move. As for the bankruptcy law and the proposal, which was dated a year later, i.e. a year and two months later, so on May 25th, he was signed by the healed Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, who was not the Minister of Economy, even though he spoke today about how Serbia today has no Minister for Business. He's gone, Vlahovic, didn't have it then, neither is he now because the Martian has decided to fail to deal with something else without leaving the function so responsible. In fact, this bankruptcy law is only due to a number of negative flows and a completely decomposed economy and chaos that created the previous DOS furniture, and this is a literary example of how someone should work, allegedly, to heal the economy and help economic operators in the country they have, and wait for the bankruptcy process, about 30,000 per cent of people employed in commercial courts. The most basic thing here today is not whether or not this law will be implemented, because it itself cannot be implemented without the application of other comparative rules, the Law on executive procedure, the Criminal Law, the Law on Accounting, the Law on Businesses, the Law on Prosecution. In itself, this bankruptcy law, which has been applied, as you like to say, other countries in the environment and have almost identical laws, is only a form of harmonisation of regulations with the European Union and the introduction of new terms and supposed powers and the possibility of control of bankruptcy proceedings, which we openly suspect, first because of the fact that in the area of justice... Because now Minister Stojkovic is probably here reluctant to represent this law, although it is not his area, in the absence of a minister of economy. And when it comes to trade courts, their jurisdiction and the way judges work in trade courts, nothing has changed better than to contribute to such an alleged, as you like to say, transparent implementation of this legislation. Not only has nothing changed, but experience until 10 days ago and famous Goran Kljajevic is just telling us the opposite. If we today have a devastating statistical data, but conditionally speaking statistically, it is a tragedy of the Serbian economy and all citizens of Serbia, that more than 30,000 companies should go bankrupt, that only the Trade Court in Kragujevac arrived last year, and that number was increased, at the same time that this law came, a proposal for over 2,000 bankruptcy proceedings. Of which, believe it or not, there are examples like this that suggest bankruptcy for a company that had a debt of only 1.75 dinars! There are even more drastic examples, of course, but there are even on that list of 2,000 companies and those where a bankruptcy procedure is proposed and whose length of debt is moving, believe it or not, between 97 and 445 dinars etc. The basic question here today is for you from the new - old DOS, and above all for employees in these companies, what led to that and how the recipe for bankruptcy was made, or a springboard for "burazer privatisation", as the workers call it popular, of course ironic, because of the fate that has reached them under the former, present regime, when they lost, over a million of them, work, and the fate of others is uncertain. So the basic course of action of these DOS directoral lobbys has not changed, so the redistribution of political power is such that instead of someone from Batic's DHSS party, and even some others, like this one who runs the factory of dedicated products in Kragujevac from Batic's party, came someone from G17; on the other hand, if some of the DS has been moved, and I doubt it, because you didn't have enough time, and now in love, in a new coalition, someone from another party has come, but the goal is the same: the more to devalue this company and bring it into such a situation to inevitably follow his bankruptcy. The principle followed by the previous ministry and the previous government is something that continues in this session. He showed us this with the choice of Dinkic and Dinkic himself. Namely, your intensity was -- and that's exactly what the draft budget is talking about, as the most important law in one year -- to continue the sale of businesses to fill in budget gaps. On the other hand, the way you act today is not able to look at the growing external trade deficit, Dinkic boasts and says, he will stick to the level of $4.5 billion, the inability to attract foreign investors if there is no malfeasance and if there is no robbery of Janjusevic, Kolesar, Hamovic, Lazarevic, if you do not reroute resources through new economic flows in the way it is applicable today in Serbia, if you are not redistributing within the existing branches of industry and businesses to employ the staff, and not fire an increasing number of workers, if not only salads, but other agricultural products, and fruit... Today, fruit trees that have collected cherry trees wait for days and blocked the road. If all this is happening in one political farce where your new bankruptcy manager, and it is no longer Montgomery but the one that has theatrely taken off chains and locks, says that you should not do this, and on the other hand, he, by his example, has, as far as the citizens of Serbia know for the past 15 years, not only has he shown that he is no businessman, but has shown that he is, in one hand, a monopoliest, a salesperson of colorful lies, throwing dust in the eyes of citizens, all of this cannot lead to a better direction. If you have a new bankruptcy manager, Karic or Solana, if it is someone else's, it is not an interest of the MPs of the SRS, not interested in farmers, workers without a job, not all those who will attach this bankruptcy law. They are interested in liberating you as soon as possible in the context of that word bankruptcy, followed by liquidation, ladies and gentlemen from the newly formed DOS new coalition, DOS two or DOS plus, obviously followed by liquidation, political liquidation, of course, in the elections we expect very quickly. The new SRS government will know how to launch economics and economic flows in our country, to deal with crime, with the mafia that has brought businesses into this situation and will know in the right way that it will take new steps to make everyone in this country better. Mr. Markovic, be kind, establish the quorum, because it is obvious that the MPs in the hall who need to provide you with the majority, from one DOS option and furniture, are not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-01-0.u4624	Thank you. I ask the MPs who provide the majority for the work of the National Assembly to determine the quorum insert their cards into the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that only 70 MPs are present in the O.R., which is visible in the naked eye, and I am giving a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask you before we continue the session to determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, only 71 MPs are present in the hall, which is not enough to continue the work. In accordance with Article 81(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia, due to the need for the laws of this agenda to be passed as soon as possible for the government's functioning, I schedule an extension of this session for Monday at 12:00 p.m. Thank you.
