ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5074	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, first and foremost, good afternoon. We are continuing the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 117 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall and that, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Milena Milosevic, Sava Urosevic and Meso Omerovic. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE TaxION ON THE ADVANCE (principle) I would like to inform you that, on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group, MP Slavoljub Matić is an authorised representative of the Parliament's Group for the 4th Point of the Agenda - Proposal for a Law on Value Added Tax, and in front of the Parliamentary Group DS Aleksandar Vlahovic for the Proposal for a Law on Value Added Tax, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sales Tax and Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Corporate Tax. You have received the bill of law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Gordana Pop-Lazić; Zoran Krasic; Vjerica Radeta; Milorad Krstin; Natasa Jovanovic; Nemanja Sarović; Igor Mirović; Zarko Obradović; Veroljub Stevanović; Vladimir Jovanovic; Veroljub Arsic; Milorad Mirčić; Vojislav Milajić; Darko Glisic; Sreto Perić; Petar Jojic; Zlatan Jovanovic and Nenad Bogdanovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: SRS – 1 hour 38 minutes 24 seconds; DSS – 1 hour 3 minutes 36 seconds; DS - Boris Tadic - 44.24 minutes; G 17 plus - 37.12 minutes; SPO - New Serbia - 26.24 minutes; SPS - 26.24 minutes and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs, by five minutes, based on Article 89. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report the word immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5075	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a bill on value added tax. It's a key tax code in all countries. We and Bosnia are the only countries in Europe that have not yet introduced value added tax. Indeed, it is high time for Serbia too to replace the sales tax with value added tax. The value added tax is a general consumption tax, which, unlike sales taxes, is calculated and paid on the delivery of goods and the provision of services at all stages of production and transport of goods and services, as well as on imports of goods. Therefore, value added tax is not a new tax form added to these existing taxes. The value added tax replaces the sales tax. Under this bill, value added tax would be introduced as of 1 January 2005. At the same time, he would stop the sales tax. Also, there is a big difference between this tax form of sales tax, because at every stage, whoever buys raw materials accounts for tax on them, and here tax is only paid on newly created value, and that's why it's called a tax on added value or newly created value. Unlike any other tax form, taxpayers can also have vomiting in this form. So this is the only tax where the state pays more tax to the taxpayer. Why is the introduction of value added tax crucial to establishing a stable economic system? Because in a system way, he is disturbing businesses to pay taxes on goods and services. Namely, one who does not enter the value added tax system loses because no one will want him to buy goods and services, because he loses his right to deduct taxes. So this is the only tax that systematically leads to a reduction in the grey economy, because whoever deals with a taxpayer who is not in the value added tax system loses the right to return taxes. This tax form will introduce itself a selection of businessmen and will eliminate the gray economy itself. I would also like to say about some neighboring experiences when introducing value added tax. In all countries, the introduction of value added tax significantly expanded the tax base and increased the collection of income, thus reducing the grey economy. In different countries, this percentage of first year income growth was different. Usually countries that have higher growth and higher levels of social product have a smaller impact on the spread of the base, because in these countries it already has a smaller size of gray economy. Thus, for example, the introduction of value added tax in Slovenia caused the expansion of the tax base and the growth of income by 9% in the first year of introduction. However, Slovenia had a very low grey economy when it introduced value added tax and is now low. In Croatia, revenues rose in the first year by 26%, in Macedonia, which has a high size of the grey economy, just like Serbia, revenues increased by as much as 60%, while Montenegro saw a increase in revenues of 220%. Montenegro introduced value added tax a year ago. We expect that real revenue growth in the first year of application of this law will be at least 50%. So one good part of the gray economy will voluntarily be translated into a legal system, because if we have two suppliers to a manufacturer, one of which wants to go gray. black to sell goods, and the other is legally operating, no one in this value added tax system will decide on the one supplying the goods on black, because he will not be able to include the tax he pays at the price of his goods. He won't be able to refuse that tax and he'll have higher expenses. So here are the sellers and manufacturers motivated to do business only with those in the legal sector of the economy. There are different experiences from our neighbours when it comes to the impact of value added tax on inflation rates. It is not a rule, as the public sometimes says, that the introduction of value added tax increases prices. On the contrary, the countries that have properly prepared for the introduction of value added tax did not have an impact on prices. The example for this is Slovenia, which before the introduction of value added tax had an annual inflation rate of 8.8%, and in the first year when the value added tax was introduced, that rate was 6%. That means inflation's down. On the other hand, it has increased in Croatia. It was 3.6% a year before the introduction, and 5.7% after the introduction of value added tax. In Macedonia, it has also been significantly increased. Interestingly, the inflation rate was reduced in Montenegro after introduction of the value added tax from 9.5% to 6.7% annually. Our assessment is that the introduction of value added tax in Serbia will not affect price growth, or inflation. On the contrary, we expect that next year we will have lower inflation than in this, and I will give you detailed explanations when we come up with an explanation of how to calculate value added tax. Who are the bonds of this tax? These are all legal entities, which in the past 12 months have achieved a total turnover of more than 2 million dinars, in fact those who today are not cobblers, according to current regulations, or those legal persons who estimate, in their initial activity, that in the next 12 months, they will achieve a total turnover of more than 2 million dinars. By giving the right of choice: all those legal persons who have made over a million dinar traffic can voluntarily join the value added tax system, where, if they have already volunteered to participate in this system, they must have a obligation to pay the value added tax at least two calendar years from the time of their registration. As far as tax rates are concerned, in different countries they are different. Some countries have a unique tax rate. We have defined ourselves in the case of another group of countries, which have a general but also a special, or reduced rate. When we compare the proposal to the general value added tax rate, in the law we propose it would be 18%, while the reduced or special rate would be 8%. With a general rate of 18%, Serbia belongs to a group of countries with the lowest value added tax in Europe, as even 80% of European countries have a higher overall rate than these 18%. For example, Denmark, Sweden and Hungary have 25%, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Poland and Finland have 22%, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Slovenia and Italy 20%, Macedonia, the Netherlands, Portugal and Romania have 19%. The lower rate of Serbia has 17.5%, Montenegro 17% and Germany 16%. No one has a lower rate than Germany, where it's 16%. At an 18% rate, we would have one of the lowest value added tax rates. As for special rates, they range from 4% to 12%. We defined ourselves as a special rate of 8%. Thus, unlike the current rate of 20 % turnover, the value added tax rate would be lower and would be 18 %. We've been calculating -- what an effect would be on prices. Since all taxpayers have an obligation to register value added tax in two accounts, i.e. in one account, all previously made payments on the basis of raw materials and inputs shall be recorded, and the other account shall record the obligations that a person has on the basis of the added value of the finished products. If the amount of taxes paid on raw materials is higher than the tax to be paid on the finished product, then the taxpayer does not report anything, but rather asks for more tax refund. We calculated that for those products where the 20% turnover tax rate is replaced by the value added tax of 18% of the price level at the same margins will fall by 7%. So Serbia can also have a deflation after the introduction of value added tax, because for all products that have a general rate of 18%, at the same trade margins, the average price can be reduced by 7%. Whether it will be in practice or not - it is another question, because traders are likely to want to increase margins, but some of them will make use of it and lower prices. As for products where today's zero sales tax rate is replaced with a special rate of 8% of value added tax, they will have a decline of 2%. Why? Many will be asked in public how it is possible for a product, which today has a zero rate of sales tax, and now introduces an 8% tax on added value, not only not to increase the price, but to fall. It is possible because the value added tax system, as I have already stated, requires first to settle the obligations for raw materials, for inputs and those, if the bread producer is concerned, milk or oil, will record all the obligations paid for raw materials at 18%. The obligation for their product is 8%. But what they paid for the raw materials is more than what they should pay for the finished product. They will not pay anything for the finished product, on the contrary, they will demand more tax refund and their decline will be 2% on average. So those whose sales tax of 0% is replaced by a value added tax of 8% will not have an impact on prices. On the contrary, even they have room to lower prices by 2%. We have suggested that the following products be taxed at a special rate of 8%, that is - bread, milk, flour, sugar, edible oil from sunflower, corn, oiled rapes, soybeans and olives, edible fats of plant and animal origin, then fresh and chilled fruit, vegetables, meat, fish and eggs. Then, drugs with positive lists, orthotic and prosthetic means, as well as medical means, products that are surgically incorporated into the organism, dialysis material, fertilizers, plant protection products, seeds for reproduction, fruit material and livestock; textbooks and teaching tools, daily newspapers, monograph and serial publications, heating wood, hotel accommodation services, motels and resorts, homes and camps and utility services. This is also in line with the relevant European Union directives, which limits which products can be classified into a group that is taxed at a special rate. But what I would stress is -- some of these products, such as bread, milk, flour, sugar, edible oil and others, today have a zero tax rate on traffic. The introduction, by replacing zero sales tax rates with a value added tax rate of 8%, will not increase the prices of these products, as their previous deduction for raw materials, for which they pay 18% of the tax, will be higher than the amount of the potential tax liability. So they're not going to pay any taxes, they're going to ask the state to refund taxes, so they have room to lower prices by about 2%, on the same trade margins. The law also provides for a proper tax exemption in accordance with the European Union's sixth directive. There are three kinds of releases. First, these are the tax exemptions with the right to deduct the previous tax, so zero rates with the possibility to deduct the previous tax, then the tax exemption without the right to deduct the previous tax, and the tax exemption in imports of goods. We have literally copied the list of these releases from the Sixth Directive of the European Union, so we have fully complied with this law with European standards. I wouldn't list all these services that are tax-free, with or without the right to deduct, because it's detailed in the law. I just want to point out once again that we have used this experience in the sixth directive of the European Union. As far as taxpayers' obligations are concerned, they have an obligation to identify value added tax. The key thing is to take fiscal accounts and that's why fiscal accounts are now being introduced. Evidence of refusal of a previously paid tax or a tax refund claim, if you have paid more than your obligation, is a fiscal account. Taxes are accounted for and paid by filing tax returns. The tax application is submitted monthly for those legal persons who have more than 20 million dinars for the previous 12 months or estimate that over the next 12 months they will be trafficked by more than 20 million dinars. For those legal persons who have less traffic than 20 million dinars for the past 12 months or estimate that in the next 12 months less than 20 million dinars will be trafficked, the tax returns are filed three months. As I said before, the records are made in two accounts. One account for previously settled liabilities, for raw materials, for inputs; and the other, for liabilities based on value added tax for the finished product. The debtor shall have the right to recover the difference if the amount of the previous tax is higher than the amount of the tax liability. The law stipulates that the deadline for return is the maximum period for return to those who have charged more taxes than they should pay, 45 days after the deadline for submitting tax returns. There are different solutions here in different laws, but in all European countries, the deadline ranges between 30 and 60 days. We chose the middle, by giving a kind of stimulant to predominantly large exporters, where the tax refund deadline will be up to a maximum of 15 days after the deadline for submitting tax returns. In the value-added tax system, there is the possibility of total vomiting, i.e. refaction, by foreign taxpayers, humanitarian organisations, foreign donors and foreign citizens when leaving the country if they bought something here in the country, and it is not our taxpayer. I would like to say that the Ministry of Finance and Tax Administration is seriously preparing for the introduction of this tax form. It would be far better if this law had been passed earlier, but six months is enough time after the law is passed to prepare well for law enforcement. We have prepared all the regulations and by August 1st we will publish them, a sublaw under this law, and by October 1st, all instructions for the application of this law will be ready. I want to say that the risk some traders and producers will certainly have is liquidity, because in the first round, you need adequate resources to start paying that tax, because later when you enter the system, there is no problem. It is possible that some businessmen will have to charge themselves to pay that first round of taxes, but we also made that calculation. If we assume that instead of a sales tax, someone is now paying a value added tax of two percent lower, so 18%, given that at the same margins its price will actually fall by 7%, so there is room to lower them by 7% and, even if it pays some funding costs, it will have the space to keep at least unchanged prices, if not to lower them. Our estimate is that the effect of potential borrowing of some taxpayers is at a maximum of 2% of the retail price, so that for those who go from 20% to 18% have the possibility to lower prices by 5%, and those who go from zero to zero of the sales tax rate at a reduced rate of 8% can have unchanged prices, with the exact same profit if they keep the same trade margins. Finally, we have really taken very seriously the project of introducing fiscal cash registers, which should facilitate the tax administration's control of the application of value added tax. As you know, the deadlines for some taxpayers have already expired, and for another group of taxpayers, they expire on September 30th. I have to say that the controls we're doing have shown that 60% of the taxpayers have introduced a fiscal cash register, and that another 34% of the taxpayers have contracted and paid 100% of the advances, but the producers are late in delivery. All 6% didn't introduce fiscal cash registers. That's why we shut down these bonds for 30 days, with the possibility that, as soon as they introduced the fiscal register, the store would be open. I have to say, there's a growing number of fiscal tills in the field. Of course, it is controlled whether those with fiscal accounts issue fiscal accounts. Those who do not issue it also have a temporary closure of the facilities and we are convinced that by January 1st we will have 100% coverage of Serbia with fiscal cash registers and that this law will be effectively implemented. So the introduction of value added tax is a small revolution in the field of tax legislation in Serbia. We would prefer that it was done earlier, but I think it is the last time that Serbia gets this modern tax form that will in itself lead to a significant reduction in the grey economy and to the giving of incentives to those who regularly operate and pay their tax obligations to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5076	Do the representatives of the committees want the word, the Finance Committee, Radojko Obradovic, deputy president, and the Legislative Committee, Milos Aligrudic, chairman of the Committee? They're not here. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5077	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, the Socialist Party of Serbia believes there is a need for the adoption of this law, because as you said yourself, it is a process of agreeing with European Union acts. The bill was based on the sixth European Union Directive of 1977, on which members, I stress, have been instructed to level the system of taxation of goods and services in their territories. Member States are left with the possibility that, in the frameworks set by the Directive, in accordance with their capabilities, levels of development and internal specificities, they adopt appropriate concrete rules. I mentioned this because I believe that the bill did not sufficiently respect our economy, the fact that it was under the ten-year sanctions of the United Nations, that it was destroyed and bombed in 1999, that it was essentially robbed through alleged privatisation, that for more than a decade it was without credit, direct investment, that there was a predominance of huge imports in relation to exports, that there was a huge internal indifference, that there were over a million unemployed, that hundreds of thousands of workers would be out of work or already are, once they said that it was in a much more difficult state than does the application of value added tax laws, as we got it. When it comes to the basic rate of value added tax, we believe that it is high for the first stage of tax introduction compared to the state of business. Since we are using the European Union directive, it is our turn to address the experiences of the European Union countries, which show that they started at lower rates to increase them later. For example, Germany had a 10% base rate in 1968 and below 5%; Spain had a 12% baseline rate in 1986 and below 5%; Luxembourg had a baseline rate of 8% in 1970, and below 4%, etc. The countries that started at a higher rate, as we move, higher than the possibilities of their economy, had to lower them. For example, Belgium had a rate of 18 percent and six percent in 1971, but since 1978 it has reduced that rate to 16 percent. It should be mentioned that this type of tax was applied by the European Community before the directive was published, I mentioned the dates in 1968 and 1970, and the directive was adopted in 1977. So, Germany and France since 1968, Great Britain, Austria and Italy since 1973, which means that the value added tax has been part of their system at the time of application of this law, part of the legal and economic system, and it has been easier for them to apply this directive, i.e. to respect it. If we already respect the European Union directives, and we want to be a member of the European Union, but we are not obliged to strictly comply with their directives, why did the law not prescribe the rates prescribed by the Directive since January 2001. In 2001, a directive was adopted that the overall rate should not be lower than 15 per cent or that it cannot be lower than 5 per cent. The directive is due to be applied on 31 December 2005, and the application of this law begins on 1 January 2005. The logical question is why at this point we are going with 18% and 8%, i.e. the value added tax rates, if the directive establishes the obligation of the Member States of the European Union to have 15 per cent and 5 per cent by 31 December. At this point, Switzerland has a general rate of 7.6 per cent and two lower rates of 3.6 and 2.4 per cent, and these are some logical facts. It can be said that the content of the bill says that it is a translation of the European Union directive, and that not all specificities of our economy are taken into account, because, in our opinion, more than six months to understand and apply this value added tax, to take account of the whole procedure of applying this law and, of course, to implement the necessary reorganisation. This, objectively, we consider will not be possible until early 2005, which can make this law inapplicable. The estimates of certain experts say that it takes at least two years for the preparation, education, explanations and introduction of the future way of working, for the whole process of law enforcement in order for the economy to be able to operate adequately under the new system. Western countries, which in the 1970s, when the value added tax was introduced, had an economy in a better condition than our economy today, started with lower rates, to stimulate economic operators to launch production and, of course, so that the state could perform much of the functions that belong to it. We also believe that this law must be more conceptually and terminologyally clear than it is in certain members, because adding certain formulations, terms, attitudes that are not contained in the European Community directive is, in our opinion, an additional confusion. We also believe that value added tax rates must be lower than the proposed ones and that this creates a condition for the application of this law. The fact is that we do not have entry into the European Community until 2012, according to the estimates of individual experts. Some say that the date is also questionable and that this can happen in 2016, so we have time to apply these taxes in the right way, not immediately starting with high rates, higher than the European Union is now prescribing, or what it requires of its members. On the contrary, lower rates will not choke what we call economics, but will be a better incentive for its development. Since we are not a member of the European Union, we should have started with these lower rates, and then made adjustments so that the value added tax rate could be harmonised with the rates applicable in the European Union countries at the time of entry into the European Union. It is now 2004, and the projection of our entry is in 2012 and 2016, respectively. Another very important thing, and this is the lack of this law, at least we believe that, in addition to not respecting the state of business and payment opportunities of citizens, as the last link in the tax pay chain, it is also seen in the fact that citizens are not exempt from paying taxes completely or at lower rates of certain goods and services that have a significant impact on their lives. The minister mentioned these goods, except in an explanation we disagree with what the minister said. We have submitted one amendment to the proposal of this law, only one, where we propose that these tax rates on the added value of the freedom of this goods, as referred to in Article 23 – bread, milk, meat, flour, sugar, edible oil, sunflower oil, oilseed rape, edible fat, fresh and chilled fruit and vegetables, fish, eggs, medicines listed in the list of medicines to be prescribed and issued on a burden of health insurance, orthotic and prosthetic means, medical means, dialysis material, fertilizer, plant protection products, seeds, fruit material, livestock, textbooks and teaching materials, daily newspapers, monograph and serial publications, heating wood, as well as hotel accommodation services. I mention this for a simple reason: one dimension of the story is if there is one in the chain of products that imports these things and the real product that is sold, and the other is if someone is working, for example, by printing books, and it has to buy import paper and there are, of course, other elements, and they are an integral part of its production, i.e. the construction of a book. If that's the same way the minister explains it to us, then there was no need for it to stand here that the lower tax rate was 8 percent, it shouldn't have existed, it should have been 18 percent, and then it could be applied. Otherwise, there's a logical reason why it costs 8 percent.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5078	Excuse me, do you want to use the other ten minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5079	Yeah. I mentioned a few things and let me say a few more words about it, so why do we think that these products, that is, these goods and services, should be exempt from value added tax. Case works, dialysis materials. There are currently 3,649 renal patients in Serbia who are being treated with dialysis and objectively existing centres are having difficulty solving their problems. According to people who are organised and who are fighting for their position, it takes a lot of new appliances to solve their health problems, because Serbia's health system does not have enough appliances, even in Belgrade, so Belgrade patients have to go to cities in the environment and solve their health problems there. Although the price is low, I mean dialysis, the fact is that for them in this way, within the capacity of people, it will be a significant burden. If there are so many patients, and God forbid there are no more, it would be logical to release that dialysis material from paying the value added tax. The second thing, statistics published a few days ago by the minister of trade showed that wages in Serbia fell by 6.5 per cent compared to the previous month and to cover the minimum consumer basket, it was necessary to allocate 0.91 per cent of the average salary, while the average consumer basket needed one and a half salary. The payment capacity of citizens is falling objectively, and this tax, which in theory may seem this simple, in practice, to raise prices, will be an additional blow to the citizens' budget. When it comes to books, textbooks, taxing instructions in the production of books and textbooks, it will be 18%, and there will be another 8% in traffic. The fact is that there is a difficult material position of the publisher and it will not be facilitated in this way, and will endanger their publishing production. We have suggested that this value added tax be zero for these goods and services, because we have in mind a higher tax burden on copyright and translation fees, editors, checkers. A large period of one to ten years for book sales and most publishers have increased book prices in the last three years. The people have no money and the books are sold slowly, because the objectively insufficient purchasing power of the population and all of this endangers the material position of the publisher. In addition, the fact is that one part of the publishing production of scientific institutes and educational institutions is not being put into circulation, but is being used for their own, scientific and research projects. This tax solution is applied in several countries. We have received data that is so in Ireland, England and the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia, about as we have, at the time of the introduction of value added tax, had lower rates for these products, but by amending the law of 1999, I have amendments and additions to that law, they have found that the value added tax is 0% for these products, and they are taxed as well as in our law, I can even say that the formulations are the same. objectively, not to mention medical resources and everything else, because it will certainly cause certain problems with the citizens. When transposing the EU directive, it is obvious that the proponent went more freely in interpreting certain provisions, so he added both terms and attitudes that can be interpreted differently in practice, and which will objectively cause certain misunderstandings, ambiguities, and may even be said confusion. The fact is, the minister was also left to settle some issues. It has been found in several members of this bill, which says there will be a number of regulations in addition to the law, which will not necessarily simplify the issue and the application of the law. All in all, if we recapitulate in a certain way what this bill contains, we can conclude the following: it will be difficult to implement this law from 1 January 2005; we believe that, given the state of the economy, the rate of value added tax should be reduced, and the general, and this lower. For example, it seems to me that the Swiss have this lower rate of nutrition and books of 2.4% and that since 1 January 2001. Furthermore, the taxes of certain goods and services were to be exempt, and I cited concretely which, and will need to be implemented, obviously by other acts, the precision of certain provisions of the law. If this is not done, we will have a law that we will not be able to apply in practice and that will cause more problems than it will benefit.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5080	Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? Mr Slavoljub Matić, and Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5081	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the DSS, I will present our views in this discussion in principle and I will announce to you that the DSS will vote in favour of this law, because we believe it is necessary that our country is not outside those European frameworks. It is simple, life and economy that require that this tax procedure be applied, because of the general ambition of our people, all of our citizens, to be in Europe, and as soon as possible. I'll just remind you that economic science has known VAT since the time when German economists, somewhere from the end of World War I, have been thinking about this comprehensive tax procedure, are charging taxes at all stages. And I will also remind our MPs that France is the first country to introduce VAT, not for services, but for goods, far back in 1954. Denmark is the first European country to introduce VAT in one complete form. In the state of Michigan, the Americans tried VAT away in 1954, but they gave up in 1967, because they operate a tax-accounting system, primarily a corporate profit tax and corporate tax. But not only that, but also because of the problem of functioning federal states with federal authority, which is one of the shortcomings in this law. Although obviously we won't have any problems in the foreseeable future with some federal government, which we know how it works, i.e. It no longer exists in this common state of Serbia-Montenegro. It is also important for this law which fully fits the EU directives. Which means that we here have two tax rates that are completely compatible with what we have in developed European countries and other EU countries. However, those rates are different. The minister himself mentioned what frameworks the rates are going to. We believe that these are the rates that can fully meet our needs for budget revenues. However, we will most likely hear in the very reasons of amendments to some remarks when it comes to some goods or services. But it seems to me that many of our MPs will not understand the paradox of the VAT itself. This is that basically what is tax-free, there are far more taxes at the end than what is at a lower tax rate, but with the possibility that even lower retail prices can be released from the previous VAT. It's something that, I suppose, many of us won't understand enough, but I hope that with one good performance and only the Ministry of Finance and the Republic government should primarily channel their energy towards this possible psychological, inflationary moment, which certainly occurs after the introduction of the VAT, which is certainly one of the lacks of VAT. Inflation potential exists when VAT is introduced and can cause the opposite effects of what we expect. What is very important, and it is one of the good sides of value added tax itself, it is certainly a fight against the gray economy, the fight against unfair competition, because all the participants in the transport of goods and services are able and have an interest in controlling each other. If there is no such control, if a retailer, buying wholesale goods, does not have an invoice with the VAT shown, is not able to be released for that amount of tax paid. This means at all stages, starting from raw materials, production, through wholesale to retail, everyone is very interested in controlling each other, two-way and both sides, and especially on the side where you buy goods and services, so you are able to get rid of that part of the tax already paid. It is one of the good sides of the VAT, which also allows for budget revenues to be created, which are necessary as well. We have listened to a number of objections and amendments when it comes to the social policy law, which was at the previous agenda. I'll remind you, all of this to come true, money from the budget is needed, and that money won't happen unless we're suppressing the gray economy, unless we try to collect what needs to be charged, I mean, first of all, the value added tax. The shortcomings I mentioned can also be found in one danger, to introduce a more complex approach to accounting work itself and possible or increased administrative scope in the accounting process itself. This will require new costs for taxpayers, but I hope, at this stage of the Information Revolution, I am more than sure that all taxpayers will easily adapt to a new way of calculating value added tax and will reduce their own price of administration in this tax procedure. As for the individual amendments, we will wait and hear the explanations of the Ministry's representatives, i.e. The minister himself, but in this discussion in principle, I can't help but ask, and also to remove some discussions that await us unless we get answers in time. Please, Minister, turn to page 12, where the tax exemption for goods and services without the right to deduct the previous tax is stated here in paragraph 2. - VAT shall not be paid on the market 3) of objects other than the transport of objects referred to in Article 4 paragraph 3 of point 7 of this Act, and this applies to the first transfer of the right to dispose of newly built buildings or economically divided continents within those objects. What does that mean? In my opinion, this means that a value added tax will be paid for newly built housing. It seems to me that the introduction of VAT on newly built housing will burden especially young people who want to resolve their housing issue. We spoke earlier, you gave me assurances that it was possible to avoid it in one way, by passing a new law that would not double tax the transfer of such newly built objects. But, please, to prevent perhaps some subsequent discussions on this issue, as soon as possible, to give us an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5082	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Vlahovic, and Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the DS will support the value added tax law, because we consider this to be one of the very important reform laws, which has its very clear objectives. This law completes tax legislation, i.e. the reform of tax legislation, which I will remind you, was launched in 2001. We believe the value added tax law should have been passed even earlier. More specifically, the bill had to be held at a session of the Serbian Parliament immediately after the election of the new government. The efforts of the previous ministry, i.e. the law prepared, were quite a good basis for the law to be passed in March, April, and for the application of value added tax law to begin half this year. I won't talk much about the law. I just want to point out the three essential features that have been given in the reasoning of the law, and the first is that in this way, the grey economy is further curbed, as traffickers are motivated to pay value added tax. I think, along with other measures, this law will contribute to a significant reduction in the grey economy and a significant increase in budget revenues. With increased budget revenues, it is certain that the Serbian government will be in a position to run a more active economic policy, as promised by the adoption of the Budget Law, which has not been implemented so far. It is very important to point out that the value added tax law is actually harmonised, among other things, in the fiscal sphere of economic systems between Serbia and Montenegro. And we in the DS are particularly pleased that this is one of the most significant points in the context of this law. We are particularly pleased that there are different interpretations of Serbia-Montenegro's fate in the political coalition that today forms the government, i.e. whether the state union of Serbia-Montenegro should survive. I am pleased that this is an argument that indirectly suggests that the government's position and attitude of all political parties is, in fact, further harmonisation in relation to Serbia-Montenegro, that is, the survival of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Of course, it is also very important to harmonize with European Union legislation, because it seems to me that we, in addition to Bosnia and Herzegovina, are the last countries that have not yet introduced the category of value added tax and thus have suspended, i.e. to replace the category of sales tax. I want to point out that there are two dangers in implementing this law. First of all, I am not sure that the happiest solution is the two tax rates in value added tax, on the one hand the general tax rate of 18% and the special rate of 8%, because it is not good to introduce any institutes and any places in the legislation that provide discretionary rights to those who implement or implement the law on value added tax. I think that, among other things, was a principled complaint from the DS. But, of course, we will, despite the introduction of these two tax rates, vote for this law. I think one general tax rate would ensure, in fact, the elimination of all places for the discretionary rights of the tax administration, or whoever implements this law. That is why, in our own time, in a principle debate on the Committee and we have suggested that a solution be accepted with a single general rate of value added tax. The second danger is the fact that the effective implementation of this law depends largely on the degree of development of the tax administration. In front of the finance ministry, the government of the Republic of Serbia faces a very difficult period in which the tax administration must be prepared and able to implement the value added tax. Why? If the tax administration isn't able to effectively implement this law, I'm afraid we're going to have reverse effects of the law -- instead of going towards reducing the gray economy, the gray economy is going to increase. But I don't doubt the agility of the Ministry of Finance and I don't doubt that a plan of activity has already been defined in the coming period to improve the efficiency of the tax administration. So this law is rounding up a package of reform tax laws. That's why the DS will vote to pass this bill. First of all, I want our public, and I want to remind you, gentlemen, that the law on value added tax had half last year in the National Assembly, and that this law on value added tax, at that point, did not come to the understanding of MPs who were then in opposition, and today they are in the political coalition forming the Government. The law was proposed for a National Assembly meeting last October. I would remind you that it is the votes of the political parties that are today forming a political coalition and forming a government, therefore, in the ruling structures, that the law is not included as a part of the agenda. That is the difference between DS and all other political parties in power today, and then they were in opposition. The difference is in the principle of attitude, the difference is in interpretation, i.e. accepting the fact that what is in the interest of continuing economic reforms should not be used to obtain cheap party points. As we are in opposition today, we, the principle political party - DS, are not entitled to vote against this law, because this law will contribute to economic reforms and economic transition in our country going much more effectively, especially in a grey economy reduction. Let me remind you that this was one of the important laws that we proposed last year and that should have provided for the continuation of economic reforms. So our message is: for reform laws, if you are truly defined for the continuation of economic reforms, you should always vote whether you are in power or in opposition. The DS therefore supports this legislative project and is well-intentioned, primarily to the Ministry of Finance, to make significant efforts in the coming period to improve the tax administration, so that the law can be effectively implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5084	Replica, Mr. Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5085	Article 97(2) I will just remind my colleague Vlahovic that during the previous period, the DSS MPs supported all reform economic laws in the previous term, that we voted for them, because we knew, regardless of what they would bring to our citizens' transition torment, that they were necessarily evil, in order to take this country on a real European path. That's one of the truth. The second truth is that during the fall of 2003 we had a parliamentary crisis and that, voting or not voting for the proposed agenda, we wanted first to determine who voted for the agenda from this hall and who voted for the agenda outside this hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5086	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5087	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 97 - misreading the previous speaker. Voting for the quorum has absolutely nothing to do with the fact that we need laws over to continue with economic reform. We were then assigned to a legal document that was meant to provide for further reform of the tax system in our country, which was meant to ensure the improvement of the tax administration, so that we could realise the objectives defined by this law. And this is a reduction in the grey economy, it is a harmonisation of the economic system with Montenegro, because all parliamentary parties were then in the Assembly in favour of the survival of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which is an iharmonisation with the economic systems of the European Union. Therefore, you, then, voting against the value added tax law, actually voted against the continuation of the economic transition. It's a fake.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5088	Article 1(1) describes what the replica is and where it is given. It cannot be misused to reply with a replica to a replica, because it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but a description. Mr. Prophetovic, here's a replica of Mr. Vlahovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5089	Mr. Vlahovicu, nobody from the DSS said last fall that we didn't need this law, as he didn't say we didn't need a lot of laws that were on the agenda at the time, but could not be adopted on the agenda, because we had an institutional crisis. We didn't know at that point how many MPs there were. Remember that the professors of the Faculty of Law then resigned from their mandates, and after a few days they wrote that they were in error when they resigned, so we had a case of MPs from the Democratic Serbia Movement. At that time, the assembly counted between 240 and 260 MPs. It's absurd then to talk about the agenda, about any reforms, when we didn't have the institutions of the system that needed those reforms to implement. The situation cleared up last October and November. We also said then that we support the law on value added tax. Today, he arrived on the agenda and we will vote for him, with a small remark, that last November we also had such a grudge at the level of that tax, because, if you remember, Mr Djelic's proposal, the minister of that year, meant that the value added tax was 20 plus 5%.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5090	Ambassador Alexander Vukic, representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the SRS believes that value added tax must be brought in, but the question is at what point, in which way and, I would say, after which legal and changes in Serbia's economic practice. Namely, the adoption of this law at the moment carries with it a number of problems in Serbia, at the moment we have minimal nominal growth in industrial and agricultural production, at the moment we have, I would say, a real problem with all forms of production in Serbia, where we have huge problems both with factories and with employees in Serbia, the introduction of value added tax, abruptly, in a period overlooked by this law, will create new additional, huge problems. We have made a number of amendments, and only after accepting or rejecting both the minister and the assembly majority will we make a final decision on how and how we will plead on this law. First of all, I have to say that there have been several variations that should have been better prepared for Serbia to introduce value added tax laws, and in what way we should have done better. I've had this law since 1998. The federal level, then, we have a Montenegrin law on the introduction of value added tax. Both are legally-technically better than this bill. We could have, even us, the Law to implement the Constitutional Charter, and the Constitutional Charter itself obliges us to apply the law that we have at that federal level. We didn't do it. We passed a law that had to be changed in terms of Montenegrin opportunities, but legally and technically better, with a smaller number of new legal terms that are unclear to those who need to apply the law, especially the tax administration and in the tax procedure. This law, apart from what its intention is, therefore, and it differs from a one-phase sales tax by what is multi-phase, but it also differs from a multi-phase cumulative sales tax, which we have had the opportunity to see how and how it is applied. The benefits of the value added tax system are without a doubt greater tax betrayal, more effective countering tax ejaculation, neutrality in external trade transactions. So that's what's absolutely undeniable. Now, they're controversial -- general and special tax rates, method of application. We think that first we should go on a calculated tax, then transfer the tax, and then go on a value added tax. Why? In the last sentence of his statement, Minister Dinkic spoke of it. We have a huge liquidity problem. In the first phase we have three phases: production, income and consumption, or three so-called. a form of value added tax, but what we're going to do with liquidity. Where'd you get the money? Where'd you get the funds from? Where are we gonna find that? At the first moment, it will be an attempt to camouflage, the first three months will remain the same, but already in April we will have a big problem: between 5% and 20%, and possibly bigger, inflation. Then there will be a reduction in the purchasing power of the population. You know, sales cuts, too. We're going to have a growing inefficiency and a huge problem with a terrible drop in living standards. At the first moment we will have inflation, and later it will come, according to this, even deflation and the big problem, because no one will be able to buy anything, and that will make the citizens feel it in the worst possible way. It'll be easier for the state - it's true. The state will have much more financial resources at its disposal. The budget deficit will not exist or will be incomparably lower. But according to the SRS bill, with a general tax rate of 12%, you'll have more than 30% of the budget increase. More than 30%! Does that cover the budget deficit and what public expenditure needs, public spending at all -- yes. We know, of course, that this general tax rate is moving today in Europe, especially in Eastern European countries, which have accepted it since the 1990s, somewhere between 14% in Georgia and 25% in Uzbekistan. We're not going to say that our country is the largest. It's not. It's somewhere on the level that the surrounding countries have accepted, for example. Bulgaria has an 18% rate, with them introducing two other special rates of 2% and 10%, and we have here a direct special rate of 8% and another of 5%. Of course, we have a so-called. Zero taxation, which should be incomparably wider than provided for in this law. I've prepared here to read to the citizens what kind of problems we're going to have in a few areas of social life, and then in the other ten minutes I'm going to talk about concrete things. So, we have a general VAT rate of 18% and a special rate of taxation of goods and services of 8%, and the following: medicines listed in the list of medicines prescribed and issued on the burden of health insurance funds, in accordance with health insurance regulations; orthotic and prosthetic, as well as medical means; products that are surgically incorporated into the organism; dialysis material. Why didn't that go to that group of goods that belong to the zero tax rate, or to the tax exemption? On the other hand, we're going to have a big problem with farmers, with those who have eight big heroes, because that goes beyond these millions of dinars that are referred to in Article 34. I think that's about the price. So directly in the barn will be charged VAT of 5%, which he predicted, by the way, and the previous bill, which was submitted by the Democratic Party, and it is not true that there was no special tax but only a general tax, as was said earlier in this pay phone. What about real estate traffic? What about young people who need to make money? Calculate how much and how much the price of real estate will be because they are not on this list at a special rate of 8%, they are not at this single rate of 5%, there is no tax exemption. What do we do with that? How and how will this great problem be regulated? We're gonna have a problem with what's-his-name. with this lex, many other measurable and immeasurable bad effects of law adoption at this time and in this way, with this general and these special rates. With that delayed fact, it will be somewhere between 6 and 18 months, and not only in application and what the tax administration should do, but also in something that is objectively our problem, which is that our economy is in complete collapse. We have an insecure problem for those chains and locks, and it's those who talk about chains and locks that made us chains and locks, so we'll see, because they said that Tadic's victory is going to take them off, and we see that they're not going to take them off. We're going to have a huge cost-of-life growth. We will have, it's true, almost double the income of the state, but there will be a huge economic borrowing of the economy, for us and our country at this point in time unsecured. And it is quite clear that a country that is so affected by the value of national production will have huge problems and that problem we will not be able to solve. So, besides accepting and prescribing what is in the sixth directive, we need to do what is specific to this market, which is specific to this economic area. Bulgaria could have introduced a rate of 18% in 1993, plus a special 10% and 2% in 1993. But Serbia can't in 2004. We need lower general rates, lower special rates and a wider circle of those who enter the so-called. group of zero taxations. And again, we'll have enough to increase the income of the state. We're going to have a bigger inflow into the budget again than we've had so far, incomparably bigger. We will, if we succeed in that intention, and a reduction in the grey economy, but in any case, we will have a complete economic collapse, if a lot of things don't change in this. That's why we invite you, of course, to accept the amendments of the SRS MPs, not to be according to that people's "saw frog to soar", so we caught ourselves in the same way as others, both in the environment and in Europe, and we are not able to do so. We're not capable of it because our economy is dying, our industry is dying, our agriculture is dying. Now, we don't need to do euthanasia, but we need to raise and fix our economy, go into production, finally start working in Serbia and live from our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5092	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from MP Veroljub Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5093	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I don't think we've read the law well, or we've deliberately interpreted it in our own way, or we haven't heard the reasoning. I'd start with that -- what are the objectives of this law. And it has been said that the goal is to establish order, to curb the gray economy. And immediately the question, which is asked before, is that appropriate to the conditions in which we live? So it is certain that order is being introduced, and very likely, almost certainly, it suppresses the gray economy. Is it appropriate to the terms, we can talk about it. The Serbian Renewal Movement and New Serbia have delivered a number of amendments. We'll talk about them. We think they're okay and we will, of course, support this law, with a desire to adopt our amendments. Since all these questions that can sound and be used for some political purposes, and we don't think it's the time to do that, I would ask the minister to answer these questions one last time. They can be set up like this. First, what this law will bring to agriculture, but very directly. Will it improve agricultural production, will it fuck it or not? We thought, now we're thinking, and we're going to ask that, since we've heard that the budget is likely to be increased by 50% in the following year because of the application of this law, it's very important when it's already how this budget is spent. So, what are the priorities? We're just thinking and asking that the priority be agriculture, that what happens next year is seen in agriculture, so since that's the case, we're asking that the 18% rate on agricultural machinery, on veterinary medicines, on livestock food is 8%. We think that we can talk about these categories and think that it won't put a lot of things at risk that are set as a goal. Secondly, another question, which again because of all of us and citizens should be asked and answered, which is how will this law affect the standard of the population? I ask the minister to say very clearly and very precisely, because it is very important because of the moment we live in. That's where we gave a few amendments. The value added tax on natural gas is now 18%. We think it's a significant part of the population, that there's a need to change the rate and it's 8%, again because of population standards. One more thing, which may be important to say or perhaps the most important, which affects the first two, is how is it going to affect the economy? Specifically. And there's one question, which is used for different purposes, which is the value added tax in construction that's going to be 18%, is 5%, and let's just see, let's hear for everyone how it's going to affect construction, whether it's going to increase construction, improve the standard of the population, whether it's going to be cheap or expensive. These are some questions that we all expect an answer to. We were thinking when we talked about all this at the Parliament Club and some more stuff. So how do we increase liquidity even more, especially those companies that import, and here we have suggested that the bond be a guarantee of payments and we would ask the answer to that question as well. In the end, another thing that we think was very important to think about, which is services. Wasn't there room and isn't it time they weren't 18%? So all in all this law will be supported by the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group. We think it really introduces a lot of order and we think it's very important, but we especially want to say that now is the time to put a lot of things in the right place, not to wander, and that really, if we said in the pre-election campaign that agriculture is number one, thing number one, thinking number one, to take advantage of this moment by even cheaper agricultural machinery, livestock food, veterinary medicines, and making it cheaper. The SPO parliamentary group - New Serbia will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5094	Do any of the other authorities want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted all MPs. I give my word to the MP Radovan Teodorovic, and let the MP Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5095	Dear President, dear colleagues and Mr. Minister, I would like to join all those who support this law. As the minister said, this is a European law that will solve many problems, problems in the gray economy. However, I'd like to give some of my regrets. Since I'm a farm man, I'd like to point out because of the general public that zero tax rates were for fertilizers, plant protection, reproductive seed, fruit material and cattle. Now she's 8%. However, it has been proposed for veterinary medicinal products, complete feed for livestock feeding, agricultural machinery and equipment in agriculture, that the rate also be 18%. I think it's a high rate in that area of agriculture. Why? You yourself know the state of our agriculture. As for the complete feed for feeding cattle and veterinary medicinal products, we know that it participates in the product with 60%. If it's 18% tax, 60% times 18 is about 11% the cost of our agricultural product. Secondly, as far as agricultural machinery is concerned, because of the general public, we have so far paid 20% of the sales tax, if a natural person buys a tractor. Now we pay 18%, even though we know the state of the machinery park in the peasants, that the tractors are old, that the machinery has run out, so we suggest that it be 8%, to speed up the purchase of new tractors and the machinery itself in agriculture. All in all, I advocate that this law be passed and he is good because he will settle many things in the area of agriculture. I would take this opportunity, since the current harvest is wheat, only two words to say which are circulating in our public. You know the price of wheat is 7 plus 1.5 dinars. I have to inform you that such a situation isn't on the ground, that there are interferences, that it's taken much cheaper than that. I want to remind you, since I'm a member of the Committee on Agriculture, that the Committee is proposed to have a price of 9 plus 1.5 dinars, so 10.5 dinars. The price is now 8.5 dinars and on condition that it is 8.5 dinars, that the average yield is 5 tonnes, we have a 42.5. Given the cost of wheat cost per hectare, I have to make it clear for the public, and a lot of people attack the government if it's wrong, there's profits, but I'll tell you something else. So if we have one plate, another plate, sowing, sowing, seeding, MPK, storage, preparation and spraying, combining, taxes and contributions per hectare and going from house to field and back, all that costs 25,900 exactly. If we got five tons of 42,500, when we subtract this 25,900, that's 16,600. People, it's a profit and it's turned into a euro that's about 240 euros. But peasants don't complain about it, they complain about their hand being dragged into their pocket this year. God gave birth the way he gave birth and we had good offerings, two dinars per tonne were taken. Five tons per two dinars is 10,000, about 150 euros is drawn from our pocket, from our peasants. You know we didn't make any money last year. This year, when we were supposed to get it, someone took it from us. If we know that 500,000 hectares are under the wheat, times 150 euros, that's 7.5m euros in private hands. She took the state, actually the peasants didn't get it. The biggest regret is that the price of 10.5 dinars was promised, so 9 plus 1.5 dinar, and that went in the media, I can bring you evidence, and I was on the Committee on Agriculture. Now you buy the wheat at 8, or 7 plus 1.5 dinar. So, watch what's promised and why the blockades happen. I want to remind you that the estimated price of buying cherry 23 dinars, and we know that in southern Serbia the cherry was paid for 18 dinars, and at the end of the 12 dinars, and no one will, and the cost of picking one kilo is 6 to 7 dinars, so you can see there's no profit there. To conclude, then, if she gives birth well, it's not good, and if she doesn't give birth, it's not good again. What does that mean? We must have a long-term strategy for agriculture. I see here that many colleagues don't find it interesting to listen to this, it's more appropriate for them to wear shirts, so they can go out in their T-shirts a little bit. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5096	Mr. Nikolic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5097	Mr. Ambassador, we were just about to applaud you after this speech. This whole speech was meant for the government of the Republic of Serbia, and you, in the end, to justify participation in the government, are attacking the MPs of the SRS. We don't have money for suits with Vojislav Seselj's character, we'd wear those suits, too. We've got money for T-shirts. Seselj is dear to us, Seselj is our ideologist, Seselj is our president, Seselj is still an innocent sitting in The Hague, Seselj is in a combination like this with a power that the peasants wouldn't give up, you know that very well. Don't mind us respecting a president who deserves respect, but you think a little bit about whether your presidents deserve respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5098	Mr. Teodorovic, it wasn't an invitation to the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. If you're going to do business, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5099	Just to remind you, you're all witnessing that Mr. Nikolic just warned a few days ago...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5100	Please, Mr. Theodoreovic, which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5101	... The vice president said he came in indelicately dressed. Yesterday was a formal session and the gentlemen came in 50 dinar T-shirts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5102	Mr. Teodorović, you are not included in the microphone because you did not specify a member of the Rules of Procedure. Whether or not you are referring to a specific member. Please, article 100, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5103	So when you're doing something that's wrong, it's okay. You came in your shirts and that's fine. Your vice president of the assembly sat in a T-shirt at the session, you participated in the game for the president, you lost, honestly congratulate, there will be a choice yet, you may win, but if you continue to be a T-shirt, you will never win.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5104	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5105	What makes you so angry and so bitter about the SRS? Not a session of the National Assembly can lead a man in a t-shirt, for he represents the National Assembly, and the messenger of the people comes as he wills. I didn't warn any of you how to dress. Second, there was a session yesterday, the President of the Republic took an oath. Our MPs showed their relationship with the state by coming and their relationship with the president by getting dressed. Let us have the right, to have a relationship with both the state and the president, and the cameras of state television have worked so hard to show our rudeness that they can't even show what kind of T-shirts we're wearing. They're good shirts, let them remind you of our election results. Don't be a hero over the victory of Boris Tadic, it's neither his victory nor yours. What I won, those are our voices. Translate them to the next election that will be held, so see if you can sit in that last place.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5106	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let the MP Milan Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5107	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, before we move to the law itself, I still have to say that I cannot resist reacting to the opening word of the Prime Minister, Mr Dinkic, as he assured me that for some products that fall into life supplies, which are now tax-free, so when he introduces a tax on added value, there will be a cost-effective, or deflation. That's just because the basic raw material, flour, is taxed by 18 percent, the bread is 8 percent, and it's going to make a difference to the manufacturer. The current situation, Mr. Minister, is that the manufacturer does not pay any tax based on the tax statement and the truth is that the trader who gets the bread from him, under the current applicable Transport Tax Act, does not pay any tax, so I think you are scratching grandmothers and frogs in this case. These are two completely different types of taxation and that's your problem. When it comes to value added tax, the fact is that it is one of the conditions for Serbia-Montenegro to be members of the European Union and that is one of the reasons why this government proposes one such law. The basic objection is the very concept of law and the moment the law is passed, that is, the moment the law begins to apply. The main problem with this whole legislative proposal is the lack of free capital for this law to enter into normal application, with no adverse consequences for the population. The basic, only and most important regret is the fact that our economy has no free capital to lend to the state, because now, under this bill, the value added tax is paid and raw materials. To obtain raw materials, one producer is now paying only the price of raw materials, based on a tax statement, without sales tax, without any form of taxation. Now he's gonna have to buy a tax-based raw material. In what way he'll be able to get that raw material, unless in a situation like this he tries to get some short-term or long-term credit from our business banks. Thanks to Mr. Dinkic, then governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, we have lost domestic banking, and currently the most foreign bank mechanics or certain banking lobbys here, which dictate the price of capital on the market. The price of capital on the market, at least, is 12 per cent to 14 per cent of the fixed interest rate and over 17 per cent of the calculated interest rates, Mr. Minister, and there is a revaluation, not at the rates prescribed by the National Bank of Serbia, but based on the growth of the euro. This is now the problem you have with such high interest, because you are now experiencing that you cannot stop the growth of the euro, which is slowly but certainly growing. So, one producer will also have to calculate these things into its product and don't convince me that it's a small item in the product measure unit, but also that it will participate in the price, although it counts that someone next in line will have to take the same loan from the banks to buy it from the manufacturer. The same thing happens with retail and the price building starts. That price building, Mr. Minister, is called inflation. I remember in 2001, when you participated in the adoption of the law, at least as the Institute of G17, and when a general tax rate of 20% was introduced, and when then Minister Bozidar Djelic said there would be inflation between 30% and 35%. I warned him from this same pay phone that he couldn't be less than 65%, and it ended at 73%. With this law, with this way of introducing a value added tax for the first month or two, possibly three, there will be no inflation. There may even be some deflation due to goods currently located in stores and shops, but as soon as the new goods start to arrive, 30 to 35% for the first six months, by the end of the year when agricultural raw materials, this wheat that we've been talking about, corn and other agricultural products, will start to enter the production process, industrial production, there will be over 100% inflation, and you will be responsible for that. This story you've now told about the drop in prices or deflation, or the drop in inflation in countries that have introduced value added tax, is, but it's only after 100, 120%, and then there's an inflation drop of about 9%. That's the drop in inflation. So to get back to some normal value, it'll be at least seven, eight, ten years. Montenegro had over 80% inflation. They can write in their statistics, issue statements, etc., that it's smaller. The other thing is when a man walks in with a certain amount of money in the store and wants to buy something, then he sees how much more expensive it is. In any case, one of these types of taxation will lead to a rise in the cost of life, a reduction in purchasing power. By reducing purchasing power, you reduce productivity, Mr. Minister, and by reducing productivity, there is an increase in product prices per unit of measure in the factory itself, in the hall itself, in the service industry itself. That's the thing you're gonna have to deal with. When it comes to Eastern European countries, which you have talked about here in your exposé, I can tell you that Eastern European countries, which have introduced a value added tax in the 1990s, all for the sake of their citizens' social security, the protection of living standards, have introduced a zero tax rate on basic life supplies, while this is not the case here. Here, at a certain number of products, which can be called life supplies, a tax rate of 8% is introduced. Just to remind you of 2001 and this famous reform law on product sales tax, that then Mr Djelic introduced the same products to a tax rate of 20%, so that, for the sake of some pre-election campaign for the presidential elections, he would usually come out with a proposal to amend and supplement the Transport Tax Act and, for the sake of political points, prescribe amendments to the SRS, where the SRS MPs sought tax exemption for these particular products. The paper in all this is still in this bill that for the first time, agricultural products belonging to primary agricultural production, which is wheat, corn, soy juice, that's rape oil. Every farmer who earns more than a million dinars, on any basis, becomes a taxpayer and will have to pay a tax of 5% on his products. That's what article 34 says. It's a bill of law. Because of the situation in which Serbia is located, our economy and the grey economy, which is certainly present in the economy, with value added tax, you could have started stage. It is that it would be the first time that someone in one such way introduces value added tax, but the only one that can give some certain results and reduce all the negative consequences that triggers this sudden introduction of the tax. You have certain experience in these stages, applied to certain legal provisions, which is that the first stage is to pay taxes on the calculated value. Already, there is the possibility that individual traders are paying a tax on calculated value rather than on the traffic of goods and services achieved. It's just, in this way, it's the first thing that would be burdened with trade, which is the first thing that comes to money and capital. The second stage would be the tax, which is already applied to certain products, such as oil and oil derivatives, alcoholic beverages and cigarettes, and only the last stage would be the introduction of a similar law on value added tax. Whether he's going to be technically different, whether he's going to have some other tax rates, whether it's going to be so-called. Zero taxation to be wider or not, it is now a story for discussion, but it is the only way to gradually introduce value added tax to protect domestic economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't understand why you're in such a hurry when the most optimistic forecasts for joining EU countries in 2011, and I say you're wrong, and I claim that this moment is much further and more and more you will remain in power will be further and further and further.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5108	The word has been made by MP Milan Nikolic, a sorry minister. Here you go. Just a moment, Minister, to let me know. [[Dropping out of the O.R.: Pause.]] Under Article 81(1), on Tuesday's working days, Wednesday and Thursday, it was defined to work from 10.00 to 18:00 and to give a break from one hour. It's not said in what period, and this remains a discretionary right. We started two hours ago. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5109	Just so there's no confusion. First of all, I'd like to repeat what the DSS MP explained. There is a paradox of value added tax. When you have a zero tax rate, this is also said in economic theory and practice – freed and punished. In other words, one who has a zero tax rate goes worse, without the right to deduct, than one who has a reduced tax rate. Ask the other bakeries in Montenegro, who have introduced a zero rate on bread and have all in a row of losses, and are now preparing to increase the tax rate. Why? Because if you have a zero tax rate, you have no right to refund taxes based on previously paid raw materials tax. This is the value added tax system. Taxes are charged at every stage. If you paid, say, for yeast, for electricity, for other raw materials at 18%, you have the right when your rate of 8% is to demand a refund of that tax, or not to pay any of those 8%. In other words, you're counting on a potential commitment of 8%, but since previous payments are higher than potential liabilities, you're actually not paying anything, you're asking for more tax returns and that's where that difference is created, which I said, of 2%. All countries that once introduced a zero rate of tax without the right to deduction replaced it in the meantime with reduced rates. The zero tax rate without the right to deduct is paid only on the export of goods in different segments. Once again, it is important for citizens to understand, there will be no inflation if the sales tax rate which is now zero is replaced by an 8% reduction; rather, these producers are in a better situation if you replace them with a reduced rate of 8%, rather than a zero rate without their right to deduct. Also, there will be no such cataclysm, which the predecessor suggested, for the simple reason why this tax form is not being introduced by us because of the EU. To be perfectly clear, we introduce ourselves because this tax creates equal conditions for all producers and stimulates legitimate business. Because of Serbia, because of our economy and our citizens, we need to stimulate the transition to legal flows, that everyone has equal conditions, and that is why we are introducing him. Of course it will help us to enter the European Union, but it is not the primary reason for the introduction of this harmonisation with the European Union, but for improving our conditions of commitment. Other countries, all of them, except Bosnia, would not have introduced this much earlier than speakers said, that this does not promote the development of the economy. I guarantee you, talk to everyone who has an 8% rate here, get them to make you specific calculations, oilers, milkers and others, whether it's worth more to them to have a zero rate without a deduction tax or an 8% rate. If they tell you they're worth a zero rate more, without the right to deduct, we'll put it in the law, but it's not worth it. The only thing they can say -- it would be better if 5% instead of 8%, because then it would be an even bigger price difference in their favor. So the specific tax form is completely different from the sales tax, and logic is different. I guarantee that inflation, with this value added tax, will be lower next year than this year, for the simple reason that the 20% tax rate in most cases is replaced by a general rate of 2% lower, which is 18%. When you perform calculations, you will see that for the same product that today has a turnover tax rate of 20% and tomorrow VAT of 18%, an absolute tax amount will be paid less. So, with a VAT of 18% of states, it gets less in absolute terms, but more taxpayers will pay in mass. That's why tax revenues grow 50%, not because someone's going to pay more to the state. Tax bonds individually pay less to the state, but more taxpayers will pay those lower taxes and then the mass of taxes collected is higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5110	I thank Minister Dinkic. Veroljub Arsic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5111	Now let's let the minister explain - who pays the tax? Whether VAT, whether it is a sales tax, is a citizen's tax. Another thing, you can talk about a story now - what would happen if it were. The fact that one product per unit costs 100 dinars for value added tax now costs 118 dinars. Whether I pay my taxes directly to the state or to the supplier who invoices my goods, I don't care. Instead of 100 dinars, I hired 118 dinars. For those 18 dinars, I'm going to have to raise my loan, or I'm going to be in charge, because I don't have any other free money. Then I don't want to go with a smaller margin, if I went from 20 dinars to 100 dinars, it's 20%. I'm not going to give up my margin as a merchant, I'm going to increase it by a percentage. You can't deny that. Money is a commodity and it has its value. You're devoting money right now, in this case. And then later on, if I'm counting the margins on a percentage, and the traders are all going to count the margins, if they have to install loans they're going to have to raise at the banks, it's called inflation, and that's the fact that you have to get back together with. Whether it's a zero tax rate or not, tell me what's better; if it's better for a baker to buy flour without sales taxes, buy yeast without sales taxes, charge him with electricity, and don't tell him the truth, and sell that bread without a sales tax, or just expect someone to pay him back. Anyway, how? Whether to give it back to the state or not, but one part remains with the country that was so far, which only belonged to the citizens for the protection of living standards. That's the problem with VAT. It's that most of those who talk about value added tax, I say, don't know how to make a manufacturer's calculations, or service calculations, or retail calculations, and then come out for this pay phone and everybody's mind-blowing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5112	The word has the People's MP Milan Nikolic, and let the MP Darko Glisic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5113	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is a very important law in a series of economic laws that this assembly is adopting and, as you have heard in the opening presentation of SPS representatives, we will support this law, we will vote for it because we believe that this is another step towards Europe. On the other hand, we believe that it expands the number of taxpayers, which is very important in conditions where we know that almost 40-50% of traffic takes place in gray channels. This percentage decreases, but in any case we think that not only the instruments of state control, but the mutual control of creditors and debtors can increase the number of those who are obliged to pay the tax. In fact, the grey economy is slowly entering the legal economy and I personally want to believe that very healthy economic assumptions are being created for healthy competition, which will allow for a reduction in inflation rates over time, because now there is a very large difference between non-tax and tax payers in that competition. I think a few objections are on the bill of this kind. First, the time needed to prepare for the absolute and effective implementation of this law, I think, is short, and if all the instruments of the law are not implemented properly, I think a very good law, which all countries in the environment, the whole of Europe is subject to, can be questioned. I therefore think that a little consideration should be given to the time of the establishment of the tax obligation of one who is obliged to pay tax and the time of payment of the tax refund by the state, where it is 45 days, so that there is some financing of the state in conditions where this economy is really tired, over-indebted, and when there are many problems with liquidity, how to ensure first and foremost the acquisition of material, after ensuring that these obligations are paid. I think there would be a serious threat to the bad liquidity of the economy anyway, unless at least those relations were evened out. I think that here, at least for a start, for that first round, as the minister said, complex economic systems, I speak as a businessman, in a very complex situation, given that the problem of indifference is present, that many materials must be imported and paid customs and that part of the tax, and then so on by phase production. Until it has its retail sales, and then in these procedures they are always in a position to gradually pay taxes, and they will charge it, when it comes to permanent consumption, within six, 12 or 24 months from consumers, which brings it to a very difficult position just like this. I think there might be a solution to the Ministry's thinking of giving benefits to certain credit arrangements, at least in the initial period, until the momentum is achieved in the right way. Secondly, some products that should be included at an 8% rate should be carefully considered, at a special tax rate. The whole of Europe, the whole world, for example, drinks water from a bottle. We are in a situation that only 30% of Serbia's population is drinking that water from the tap, from unverified sources. Actually, we drink a lot of unhealthy water. I think the rate of 8% could increase far more traffic. We have resources, we have capacity, and I think that would be a move for both consumers, and producers, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5114	Thank you. The People's Messenger Darko Glisic has the word, and let Susana Grubjesic be prepared for his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5115	I would ask you, Mr. Angelkovic, before I begin my discussions, to determine the quorum, because it is obvious that we are not as much as the electronic system shows. I can't discuss it when we don't have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5116	Then I ask you to go to your place... Please, at the request of MP Dark Glisic, let us determine how many of us are in the O.R. Fortification of the quorum. ) Since there are not enough MPs in the hall to continue work, we continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, I ask you to establish a quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We're continuing our work. The People's MP Milan Nikolic came to the floor, and let Darko Glisic prepare. (Vlasovi: Milan Nikolic is not present. ) Here you are, MP Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I expected that during this discussion, Minister Dinkic, as well as MPs, especially from G17 plus, who defend the laws proposed by the Ministry of Finance, would highlight it as a pre-election promise. This was the case when we had in the previous period several laws submitted by the Ministry of Finance, that it was a pre-election promise of G17, that the wheat of 7 plus 1.5 dinar was the result of successful negotiations by the G17, that the negotiations that the Government of the Republic of Serbia had, that they were successful negotiations that G17 had fulfilled, etc. I would also ask Minister Dinkic and G17 plus not to keep their pre-election promises anymore, because whenever they fulfill any pre-election promise, let the factory close down, many people lose their jobs and citizens living every day. As far as the proposed value added tax law is concerned, one such law is required to be passed. The question is, have some of my predecessors pointed out whether it had to be brought in at this point, before some other law offices opportunities in our country, that such a law could actually have its own application. It seems to me that this sudden introduction of this law and the short deadlines will cause a lot of problems, and I'm afraid a sense of a drop in living standards will be the result of this law. From the presentation of the minister and those who defended this law, I could not clearly conclude that this bill, if adopted, would not be a blow to the budgets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would direct your attention if I had submitted an amendment to Article 34, which includes agricultural producers, where I predicted that such a member should be deleted. I hope that there will be hearing from those who need to be made known about it, when there is a vote on amendments, and one such member would really add to the burden of agricultural producers, given that the only thing that works in this country is how much agricultural production. There are somehow people who are able to cope with both the country's intrusions and everything that makes their work more difficult, so it seems to me for these reasons that this article 34 would add to them, and we shouldn't make agricultural producers worse, given that we have also reversed them with this protection price of cereals and raspberries, and someone has mentioned cherry, because with these prices, countries really have their work, if I may say so, belittles them. You predicted this would come into effect on 1 January 2005, if I'm not mistaken. That's what members of 62 and 63 regulate, but I'm afraid you as Government won't wait until January 1st and some other government will have to pass such a law. I support this by the fact that you have quite a problem in the government itself. If, Mr. Dinkic, I have a daily newspaper in front of me, your colleague, the minister, calls and threatens to "cut off your mob fingers", you and your mechanics, then you have quite a problem with that government. (Glasses – darkness. That's the darkness. That's the topic, because the minister and the government need to implement this law. If a fellow minister cuts off his fingers, him and his mechanics, he won't be able to enforce the law. I have no doubt that you will not be obliged to qualify your fellow minister the way you should qualify him. I trust both of you, and what you're going to say about each other, but I think your relations within the government are starting to slow down the citizens. Their standard of living from day to day will become more difficult and it will prove that the coalition you have made is not at the will of the people and that it will not really do the citizens any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5119	Here you are, the head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, Mr. Goran Paunovic - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 40th anniversary time that the SRS is against some law in this council. It is strange, indeed, that someone should be against every law proposed by the Serbian Government or the National Assembly. I'm just wondering, what's the point of that? Serbian citizens should know that here, apparently, some political parties work for someone's interest. If we have seen here, a recent quoted text from the paper, a young colleague from the SRS simply leads me to question whether the SRS and the aforementioned minister work for the same man. Is that the interest of this country? Whether it is the interest of citizens who voted for both the SRS and the party of the said minister. Let's open up and tell the truth to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5121	Thank you. The word is Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be fully open, concrete and correct, unlike Mr. Paunovic. I'll tell him who he meant, and I'll answer him directly. Well, what are you saying in your gloves? What are you howling about an aunt? Say you were thinking of Bogoljub Karic. Now, Bogoljub Karic pays no one of us, and we think as badly of him as he does of you. We think you are equally responsible and guilty of the accident Serbia is in today. Well, that's how it works, gentlemen, politically, manly if you want. Do not bend, but go out and say, and you will receive the answer. And as for the 40 laws, there will be 400 laws, if you could rule by then, because none of the laws you've made were good, none of the laws you've done is right. And, one more thing -- you talking about banned the appearance -- the Serbian Radical Party, as a phenomenon, banned in their media. You could have noticed that. But you don't seem to read it, and you don't look at it enough. You haven't listened to what I said in the last 15 days. It didn't occur to you. You didn't listen to what we said before, but your problem is now that I'm going to tell you -- so since I told you openly that we had nothing to do with these people, whose name you shouldn't even mention, now I'm going to tell you who you're having an affair with. You have nothing to do with it, but you have connections with top criminals and mobsters, such as Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic and many other bandits who mix around Serbia, do what they want, hold half the media. The other half not held by Bogoljub Karic is held by them, and the difference is that one has so much and one has little or little more money. Who's to blame? Who's responsible for that? You who are the government, Mr. Paunovic, because they sponsor you and support you. They gave another one to the one that should have almost won more than a million euros. They made a deal at the Daka bar, right here in the city center, this one was newly built. And Sally agreed on how much money she needed. You can't tell us that. You know who's holding us and who's supporting us? People and citizens of Serbia, which is why we are against your 40 laws. We will be against another 40, and you will hardly wait 41st for you to propose as the Government of Serbia, because by then people and citizens of Serbia will have the opportunity to choose a better power, to choose a people's power, and there will be no place for anyone from G17 plus and for a few from your ruling coalition today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5123	Mr. Paunovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5124	I'm referring to article 100. Mr. Vukic has made several insults, so I don't count them. I think there's enough reason for a replica. Mr. Wolfichu, smart people are once told that something that is spoken from the assembly booth is not true. MEPs G17 plus said neatly that it was not true what Serbian Radical Party MPs say. We're content to say it once, and you repeat 100 times the things I'm going to openly call lies. Smart enough to say it once, and radicals obviously have to repeat it more than once. From now on, we'll repeat as many times as you say. As for the open mention of the name, Mr. Vukic, I will openly say, the Serbian Radical Party MP, obviously along with Bogoljub Karic, is complicit in the attack on G17 plus, and that is what the Serbian Radical Party MP did earlier. So Bogoljub Karic and the Serbian Radical Party are on the same path against G17 plus, more specifically against the interests of Serbian citizens, against the state of Serbia, and that is what we will see very soon, Mr. Vukicu.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5125	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I admit I don't have anywhere near the wits of Mr. Paunovic. He's a very smart man, a real expert, one word genius. Go back to what he was talking about behind it. So, Mr. Paunovic, Bogoljub Karic, about seven days before the presidential runoff, seems to have eaten a lot of salad, not a little bit but a lot of salad, and it appears that the salad was broken, as it was from imports, and supported your candidate Boris Tadic, directly supported Boris Tadic against Tomislav Nikolic. And he told the people and citizens of Serbia -- when Boris Tadic, he, Boris Tadic and you, all of you together, will agree and do everything to make sure there are no more chains and locks, that there will be no more visas for going abroad, so you said democracy will flourish in Serbia, that people will have a huge standard of living. What happened, Mr. Paunovic? It happened that the people recognized you all and there's only one truth in all of it, there's no two, there's no three truths, and that's that there's no difference between you. What is our task, I speak openly to you and to the citizens of Serbia, is to defeat the three-headed angel made up of Tadic, Karic and the Serbian government. There is no difference between you, we will beat you all together and we will lead this Serbia in a serious and smart way. We will lead this Serbia by not insulting political opponents by not being smart. You're a genius, you're very smart, and you have 34 MPs. We're not that smart, but we have 82. Look what you wanted to say about your people, and I think the people are much smarter, and that the people know who they choose and who they vote for.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5127	The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, I would return to the topic if it were possible to do so, and leave our fingers, some ministers and others to the tabloids and press conferences. I don't think the National Assembly is where these things are said. We have a much more important task. We have 11 points on the agenda, and today there is a value added tax on the agenda. This bill should be adopted by the National Assembly after the debate, which means that the sales tax on goods and services is definitely going down in history. This tax standard is recently applied in the European Union, as well as in the surrounding countries, including Montenegro. Only Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't have VAT yet. It is interesting to mention that, for example, the United States continues to stick to sales taxes, but only at the level of individual Member States, because there is no federal level of sales tax at all. I would also like to mention that the last government of the former SFRY has announced the introduction of this tax instrument. In its successor SRJ, the Federal Assembly adopted the Law on Value Added Tax in 1999, and it even went into effect, but then its application was suspended three times. The current proposal by the Serbian government to introduce VAT would be the fifth in a row and hopefully the last. It has been shown in countries that have replaced the sales tax with a profit tax that VAT is a far more tax instrument. Excess revenue will not only result from a reduction in tax ejaculation, but will be ensured by the introduction of a VAT payment obligation on products which have been exempt from sales tax. In addition to the fact that the tax system, even in this segment, is brought into line with European Union practice, the transition to VAT will have other positive effects. The tax ejaculation will be reduced, which will contribute, in addition to increasing budget revenues, to establishing more equal market conditions, i.e. to reducing the size of the grey economy. These are sufficient reasons to leave the sales tax, although the system of accounting and control in the VAT system is more complicated. However, VAT law would start to apply from 1 January 2005, which means that businessmen and tax administrations have enough time to prepare. The difference between VAT and sales tax is that VAT is paid at each stage of production and transport, only to that part of the value of the products and services added at that stage. The VAT, which is crucial, should fully legalise business in the economy, because no one who does not pay regular commitments to the state will be able to operate. This means that business in the gray market would become invaluable, because if a business in a chain of tax evasion, it will be paid by the next businessman. The VAT was not agreed between Serbia and Montenegro. The overall VAT rate in Montenegro is 17%, and according to the government's proposal in Serbia, the overall rate will be 18% and a special 8%. Secondly, there is no special rate in Montenegro, but there is a zero rate, with the right to recover taxes charged in previous stages, as there is a tax exemption without the right to return. This, however, is not so crucial to the functioning of the common market. The customs laws of this Member State define the territory of the Republic as the area where the law is applied. This results in the same procedure, whether goods or services come from abroad or from one of the Member States. There's only a difference in customs. It does not count on goods produced and obtained in another state union member state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The same solution is contained in value added tax laws. The Republic is defined as an area of VAT application and this requires appropriate import-export documentation, i.e. traffic control among the entities of the two Member States, but it is positive that this procedure would not change much more if Serbia-Montenegro became two independent states. What is the essence of value added tax? One of the definitions says it is an indirect non-mulative multi-phase sales tax, which taxes all phases of traffic from the manufacturer to the end-user. The essence of this tax is that products and services are taxed at all stages, but so that the tax paid in the previous stage does not enter into the tax base in the next stage of taxation. By tax, therefore, at each stage, only the added value of products and services is taxed. The added value shall be the value added by the manufacturer, trader and other persons in the transport chain to the basic value of the goods, or to the value by which they have acquired the goods. The easiest way to calculate the tax base is the difference between the value of the input and the highway, i.e. the difference between the sales price and the purchase price of the product, i.e. the service at a certain stage of transport. What are the advantages of value added tax? It is, above all, a reduced possibility of ejaculation, i.e. avoidance of payments, self-control, that is its betrayal, neutrality in foreign trade, and the exemption of the instructions from taxation. I would also mention some shortcomings, which are high administrative costs, inflationary potential and that the economy is actually lending to the state. The basic principles of value added tax stem from the way goods are taxed, so we distinguish the principle of origin, which implies that they are well taxed in the country where they are produced, regardless of the place of consumption. In applying this principle, import goods are not subject to taxation. The second is the principle of destination. So goods and services are taxed in a country where they are used, or used, and the subject of taxation is the total additional value, whether added to the country or abroad. Here exports are free of VAT payments, while imports are taxed and conditions are created for competitiveness between domestic and import goods. Technically observed, VAT can be charged and charged by direct and indirect taxation of added value. In a direct method, the newly added value of the product is first established, and the tax rate applies to it as a tax base. The correct determination of the new added value in practice is difficult to achieve, so that this method is rarely used. In the indirect method, there is no determination of the new value of the product, but the tax liability is calculated by deducting from the total sales tax paid at the previous stage; this method is more appropriate today and is more frequently applied. I will say one more thing about the basic characteristics of the VAT bill, which was delivered by the Serbian Finance Ministry. The introduction of VAT achieves the following objectives: reducing the size of the grey economy and harmonising tax policy with European Union standards. The proposed model is the consumption type VAT, the indirect method of determining the tax obligation and respecting the principle of destination. So export is tax-free. VAT bonds are all legal persons who have made total income of more than two million dinars over the past 12 months, or who, when the activity begins, assess that they will achieve total turnover in that amount in the next year. Those who have achieved or estimated that in the next 12 months the total turnover will be more than a million dinars can opt to become VAT bonds, with the obligation to pay the tax lasting at least two calendar years. The key in this bill is that VAT returns exist, i.e. the taxpayer has the right to recover the tax difference if the amount of the previous tax is higher than the amount of the tax liability. The deadline for vomiting is 45 days, and as the minister explained to us, in the surrounding countries, the deadline is between 30 and 60 days, and the ministry has been defined as the medium variant, within 45 days of the deadline for submitting tax returns. In accordance with the experiences of other countries, the right to return, i.e. VAT refaction, have foreign bonds, humanitarian organisations, foreign donors, foreign citizens, in order to avoid double taxation. I will just say that by passing this law, as well as by amending and supplementing the corporate tax law, a package of tax laws is being circled and Serbia becomes one of the countries with the lowest tax rates in Europe. Of course, lawmaking is always easier work, although not always in this Parliament, since its application, and we hope that the tax administration, as well as citizens, taxpayers, will be well prepared to start implementing this law as of 1 January 2005. Finally, to add that, in any case, the G17 Group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5129	The word has a People's MP Branislav Rankic, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, already these laws that we had before, which relate to the introduction of taxes, as well as earlier excise and tax laws, have exceeded the limits (and taxes must know them), and that limits all three natures, and we have come to the situation that we will very hard to charge taxes in the future due to a highly inefficient economy. It is said here that this law replaces the sales tax on 1 January and does not slow down anyone's need for a law like this to be passed. However, the effects this law will bring on the Republic of Serbia's budget are large and more money will be seized by citizens of the Republic of Serbia and by the economy. Since for many years in Serbia, money has played the role of former social food bonuses or certain companies. At the beginning of the month, on various grounds, those who are still employed are divided through salaries, and those who are users of social services, social contributions and pensions return that money through spending to the state again. From month to month, money revolves around, no new values are created, and that's why we come into a situation that we won't even be able to charge new taxes. We are here in a situation where the government treats businesses and citizens in a similar way as international financial institutions treat our country. In fact, it is that there is a wish, even the minister said that some economic operators or taxpayers will not be able to pay taxes at the beginning, but they will be able to pay taxes, and that will only be the first time, and later it will prove that the tax is lower, although we are not sure there either, because it is said that prices will fall by 7%, but the minister doubts and said he is not sure that it will happen. We will be in a position to invest all the profits on behalf of these loans in the payment of the loan, and in this way, as a state, we will soon be in a situation that with this kind of debt, the entire economy will be able to serve interest only, and that the principal will always remain like a rock around our necks. This is how the government now treats the citizens of Serbia, our business entities through the introduction of taxes and citizens in general, so that we will bring citizens and economy into one relationship with the state that it will work and will not be able to make profit. What may be a surprise to MPs, which we are not used to in this conference, is that the proposal of the new law does not follow the establishment of the agency, and it is not unusual because mostly, if the laws of the financial sphere are, there are no agencies there, but here we have a large number of members that always say in the end that the minister in charge of financial affairs will be closer to determining the terms, closer to laying down patterns, and this is going through the whole law, and we are now in a position to suspect that the minister will be able to carry out all these obligations he has made to himself through this law, provided that he does something else. I would only draw attention to Article 23, because it seems to me that there has been a little talk here, that, at a special rate, VAT of 8 percent is taxing the turnover of goods and services or imports of goods, etc. Now this is interesting here about imports, given that the largest number of items listed below, which are taxed at a special rate of 8%, practically makes our imports, and counting even flour, so for the first time in 50 years in the last year, we had a situation that we had to import wheat, edible oil, etc., since sugars are becoming less and less products. We have raw materials for this type of production, because they are privatised and not functional, so for the factories dealing with the processing of agricultural products, it is especially imports of fresh and chilled fruit, vegetables, meat, fish and eggs, mainly imported goods and it is customs at a lower rate. And here we have that at a lower rate, customs and hotel accommodation services, motels, resorts, etc., which is why we recommend to some citizens living in some rich countries as a very cheap and labour force and a country, which will provide cheap services, and it goes directly to the damages of Serbian citizens, including our budget. I think it should be more relevant here to make a different list, which is what should be taxed at a lower rate of 8%, and what is it that could be taxed at a higher rate. In the end, it seems to me that the government is acting, when it comes to Serbia's economic system, much like a polar wolf. Traditionally, he's been hunted by the northern people for centuries by stabbing a knife with a sharp edge on both sides of the ice, oiling it with blood, and the wolf, when they smell the blood for miles, comes up, starts licking the knife, and so he drinks his own blood, and in the morning they find it next to the knife. So it seems to me that this kind of procedure, this kind of law, is going to make the government practically the entire economic substance that the state has in store for destroying, destroying, and we're going to get into a situation very quickly that we won't even be able to provide food for the population without talking about the start of the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5131	The People's MP Milan Markovic has the word, and let the MP Sreto Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5132	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I will refer only to the debate that was held in the afternoon session, because I think that part of the MPs did not understand best the presentation of MEP Teodorovic, our colleague from the SPO-New Serbia Parliament Club. Mr. Teodorovic wanted, as I understand it, only to point to one problem, which is that the price of 7 plus 1.5 wheat dinars is not respected, or that part of the price relating to 7 dinars is not respected, and I don't think it was a criticism of the government. The government probably did the best it could at this point. The fact is that the promises were something different, that when the wheat were sown, people made calculations at 9, or 9.5 dinars without premiums, or with a single dinar premium. Now the government has come out with a premium of 1.5 dinars, but here the question is, what if the government had come out with a premium of two dinars. Then would this other part shrink to 6.5 or 6 dinars? In fact, it's a whole other topic that the government needs to think about first of all, and that's the point where the price parity of 1:2:4 is respected, or at the price of dinar wheat, that flour be two, and a kilo of four dinars of bread, or a loaf of bread, in that case (if there were 10 dinars, 20 and 40) should be 24 dinars, which is not. This means that practically here the primary producers are paying, on the one hand, because their price is depressed, and on the other hand the end consumers, because it seems to me that the current calculation of bread was practically made at some market price for wheat that was the whole 15 dinars last year. That's all I wanted to point out and say that the price per hectare, which my colleague Teodorovic said, is, therefore, how practical are the inputs for producing wheat from some shareholders, he said 25,000 dinars, applies to individual agricultural producers, or farmers, and that the price for social enterprises dealing with primary agricultural production is far higher and is close to 40,000 dinars per hectare. This significantly changes this situation and changes the calculation of five tonnes per hectare, which is a far higher price basically, so that the profits that the colleague was talking about, when it comes to agricultural producers, are not exactly available. I'll just tell you that on a single dollar of the obligation of the agricultural producer, the social enterprise that deals with primary agricultural production has as much as 26 dinars. So 26 times the load. In any case, this little recession was necessary simply to hear the MPs, the minister, and the public, who are all the problems that arise, i.e. to accept the knowledge that the problem arises somewhere between the manufacturer and the consumer, which are millers, bakers and that this price does not correspond to parity 1 :2 :4. As far as this law is concerned, this is another good law, one of those proposed by the DS, or previous government. Despite the fact that a respected colleague here said a few days ago that it doesn't matter who is proposing the law, it's important that the law is good, I think it's important that we say that these are the laws of the previous government, precisely because of the campaign that is part of the current ruling coalition, I don't think all but part of the ruling coalition, which was then led, which was an irresponsible campaign, full of libel, untrue, to a good extent destructive, and which resulted in a very poor government's work in the first four months. It is not disputed, I think it is clear to all, that the reforms started in 2001 de facto stopped, and now we are all working together to start these reforms and I'm afraid it's not going so easy. It's all going on, right, but I think it's a little unmarked, that certainly that crisis we had in the autumn wasn't such a character that we couldn't adopt value added tax back then, but I say everything and accept that for some stronger political reasons then we didn't adopt a value added tax. The question arises as to why the law did not appear on the agenda, perhaps in March, April or May, but only now is it now on the Assembly's agenda and now, with the right part of the opposition, raises the question of harmonising other regulations and the possibility of all being prepared for the implementation of such an important law by 1 January 2005. I cannot ignore the ruling coalition, the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was more important to her than some laws that practically now await their fate in front of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, so whose constitutionality has been disputed. One of these laws has even suspended the Constitutional Court until the final decision, as if it were more important to have any personnel shooting or perhaps some kind of a passion and struggle against DS, which is now proving to be extremely absurd, since they didn't want to, we're forced to work together. We have been working in the best way since we are here, trying to do so, to be constructive, and to support all those laws that we consider to be on Serbia's behalf, regardless of what we are the fruit of the opposition, which we might be able to achieve in such a way as to interfere with your work. We don't think of that, and that's why we're helping you, as we helped you last week, and last week, and the previous four months to adopt laws that are reformal, which are an extension of the government's economic policy, whose backbone was still in 2001, then 2002 and 2003. We stood behind this bill even when we were the ruling majority. Nothing has changed between us in our views and our principles by turning us into an opposition. We are still behind this legislative proposal and, as counterpart Vlahovic said, our reasons are very clear why we support this legislative proposal, which is given in the material itself. It is a further fight against the grey economy, harmonisation of tax policy with Montenegro. I don't know if it's said here, but Montenegro's value added tax introduced on 1 April 2003. Of course, harmonising with the standards of the world we are seeking and belong to, and this has already been said here – the Sixth Directive of the European Community on the common system of value added tax in the Member States. This value added tax will certainly increase the level of charge, but on the other hand it can be a good incentive to reduce individual burdens, i.e. investment incentives, and thus economic growth. This value added tax has been proven in parallel systems and should be accepted as such, and it does not need to be made into an excessive dilemma or too big a story around it. Certain concerns, said Mr Vlahovic, who conducted through the discussion of some other MPs, are precisely about the timing of the adoption of a new law, i.e. a major failure and responsibility of the ruling majority or part of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which apparently had a advantage over the other part of the government of the Republic of Serbia, were chosen by the order of the law to come on the agenda. We've submitted only a few amendments. We will discuss these amendments more in the discussion of details. Now I'm just going to tell you, it's on Articles 24, 34 and 68. By amendment to Article 24, we wanted to fix a solution regarding tax exemption for the provision of services to users of the free zone. We think that it might be more precise to settle, so that this would not be the reason for the tax ejaculation, and that the applicant for the amendment, counterpart Vladimir Jovanovic, will say something more, as well as the amendment 34, which we wanted to point out to a little bit about agriculture. In fact, practically all inputs from farmers, i.e. in their agricultural production, will be taxed by 8%, some 18%, and the amount of compensation they can charge for their highways is 5%. I must admit that this solution is not clear to us. It should also be added that most farmers will not meet the conditions to be a taxpayer, i.e. in the value added tax system. First of all, few will show that they belong to that group, according to, I think, Article 34, if I'm not mistaken, over two million; and those who are over a million will find it difficult to decide to keep books and to deal with it, which is not close to their work at all. We'll talk more about the amendments. We have this dilemma regarding Article 68, regarding business in the free zone. We do not dispute the need for individual tax reliefs, but we believe that only the issue of free zones should still be regulated by some other law, or other regulations. We are going back to the old ones, if we had passed this law in March of 2005, we might have more time to make it possible by 1 January 2005, that is to say, to make all the preparations necessary for this law to be applied. It is important that we adopt this law, it is important that its application starts from 1.1.2005, it is important that the budget is filled more efficiently, and on the other hand, to open up a new space to the quality tax system, open more places, that the individual tax burden be less and therefore more places to invest. However, given that DS-Boris Tadic supports this law, I think the minister himself has clearly explained what needs are and what reasons are to vote on this law. I will use the presence of Mr. Minister to inform him that I have raised one parliamentary question to the president of the National Assembly, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure on Labour. I'd like Mr. Secretary to make an effort to help me get an answer in writing. When we discussed the matter of the budget, and when you look at it, we keep going back to the budget, whether through the wheat story, whether through this story or through another, we go back to the Budget Law, and then, as an opposition, but in the spirit in which we usually perform here, constructively, we show that the 44 billion-billion budget deficit, and on the other hand we felt that the 338-billion-dollar revenue itself was too high, but then we showed concern about part of the deficit's cover of 16.800,000 dinars, and that was the revenue from privatisation. We thought that the irresponsible policy led by the current ruling coalition towards privatisation, populist approach, investment or ideological compromise, which apparently exists in this coalition, not only led to the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation calling itself the Ministry of Economy, but also led to the whole campaign being targeted in such a way that the negative relationship with privatisation itself will not be good, quality and will not bring results. When we received the draft budget law, at the very least we were shocked to see the government predicting that it would receive 16,400,000 dinars from privatisation, and I'll tell you that our government, which was far more responsible for accessing the problem, even the revenues from privatisation, have been estimated by about three billion less. That's why I asked the question, and I know that maybe it's not directly directed to the finance minister, but since the finance minister is keeping an eye on the charge and discharge of the budget, I have to ask him, because we don't have a finance minister. So -- how many companies have been privatised since the start of the government's mandate until 1 July 2004, how many new tender privatisations have been announced in this period, how many enterprises in the restructuring process have been privatised from the beginning of the mandate until 1 July 2004, how many privatisation revenues have been made since the start of the government's mandate until 1 July 2004 and what is the cost of the privatisation agency in the period from 15 March to 1 July 2004? You, Minister, will not mind me using this time to ask you this, or to ask you to give me an answer from the Serbian Government in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as is the order and what is the case, if the government respects this parliament. After all, our parliamentary club will support this law, support all the laws it would put on the agenda itself if we were in a position to rule Serbia, as we will never propose any single solution that we ourselves would not apply to the situation so that we can decide which solution will apply. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5133	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure. Replica, authorized representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5134	Mr. Markovic, I want to ask you that when we talk about important reform law, we stick to the subject. It's pointless to waste time like this, to open up a series of other topics that aren't on the agenda. Secondly, to remind ourselves, the DSS in the previous term supported all serious laws that are on the trail of what leads Serbia through Europe. Eighty thousand pages are written. There is no need for me to know what wisdom, in order for these laws that lead us through Europe to be translated and brought here before the Assembly, to need the political will of the ruling coalition. In the previous period, unfortunately, we did not have the political will to finish some of the work that is very important for what you call reform. So I'm asking you -- which is why last July we didn't have a controversy or a conversation, or a decision on value added tax law, but last July we had what we had in this assembly, let's say, we discussed the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. As far as privatisation is concerned, I'll remind you, what was worth selling. A good deal of those companies that sold themselves have problems, too. At least a hundred companies, I'm a member of the Privatisation Committee, I know perfectly well, we have problems and it's huge. Don't pour oil on the fire. Don't talk about some of the things that got cooked just at the time we had that so-called. the reform authority. Please, and all other MPs, let's stick to today's agenda. This in the end and how it costs our taxpayers and let at least, when it costs so much, we do this job quickly, efficiently and in favor of our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5135	Thank you. Please don't mention names, so you don't cause replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5136	I don't know why a colleague was called, he probably meant that part of the government, which has not yet been clearly defined, still leads to an ideological struggle and is looking for an ideological compromise. I can't see I jumped off the subject. We're talking about value added tax as one of the budget-charging instruments. Speaking of budgeting, it was logical for me to take advantage of the Minister of Finance's presence to ask him about a very important item relating to the amount of 1600,000 dinars. As for why we didn't pass that law in June last year, I know he was ready in September. If I'm not mistaken, your colleague just spoke about the period September, October, November. There's no need to go back to July. The agenda was already scheduled in July. It was an extraordinary session of the Assembly, it was not regular and could not attend an extraordinary session of the Assembly. I asked a question of your responsibility - what was going on these four months? That, in my opinion, is the key thing. Fortunately, the election took place and you got the result you got. Obviously, it affected a little change in your policy. I just didn't like politics for the last four months. Instead of these key laws, which are important to the state and which cannot make a difference between the government and the opposition, we had some other laws that mostly came down to people's shifts. So, for example, we changed the judges by law, which is totally illegal and against the constitution; so, let's say, we passed another law suspended before the Constitutional Court, etc. That's what I was talking about, and I don't know why you found yourself called, there was no need. Let's move on, together we'll pass this law, and hopefully we'll adopt together, and the next two laws the minister has proposed here, but it's important that as an MP I get an answer to questions about privatisation. It's not possible that everything was sold until we got there, so now there's nothing left to sell. It's going to sell, there's going to be privatisation, but it's another problem, and you and we know it, and it'll probably work out later.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5137	We've established that you've caused a replica, and this is what we end up with. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5138	I'm advertising my right to a replica, Article 97 of Article 2. What do I mean, Mr. Markovic? The first 40 laws related to institution building, mostly. If it hadn't been for those laws, we wouldn't have a president of the Republic today. To implement reforms in one society, you must have strong institutions. The DSS or that part of the government that is not determined to make changes here that you think are on the right track, that part of the government still said in the election campaign that, above all, this country needs strong and normal institutions. So we had to, what had been neglected over the past three years, do some additional work with these 40 laws, so we moved on to what Serbia needed, which is these laws. Otherwise, they're not in the same shape. I remind you that Djelic's Law meant two tax rates: a 20% general and a 5% special rate. This law is very different. Of course they are similar, because they are within the frameworks of the European Union and those regulations that we already have from the European Union. Please, building an institution was the first prerequisite to build an economic order in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5139	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another one in a series of laws where the former and current regimes bicker over who proposed the law. It seems that the citizens of Serbia will have to wait a little while longer until the government takes over the SRS, so that we can propose our laws, which, of course, we will accept with your amendments and suggestions. Maybe we'll wait a while. Obviously, you don't know how to use, as you would say, resources or potentials of the opposition. It is not true that the SRS has been against 40 laws, which have already been passed since this congregation exists. In principle, the SRS was against those draft laws where agencies were founded, not other laws, by submitting a number of amendments to the laws to make them interesting to the citizens of Serbia, whose interests we represent here. As far as this law is concerned, of course there are heads of parliament who occasionally appear only in replicas without making any special work and contribution to make this parliament as effective as possible. When it comes to value added tax law, SRS MPs consider this to be one of the laws needed. The second question is whether this is the best time to pass such a law. Let me tell you that I've contacted a large number of people working in the IRS, to see if they have any objections and suggestions on this bill. Many said, while the law was in the draft, that they were not able to read it and look at it, and later they admitted that they were watching it, but that many things were not clear to them. I think it should be accepted, too, that the law should have been written in a more acceptable way. I agree that education will be done for those who work in the tax administration, that they can apply it. However, it should also be worked to ensure that taxpayers, whom the law also directly refers to, understand and that they can act and act in accordance with the law. Furthermore, when it comes to the category of the general tax rate, whether 18% is what is most needed at this point, it would be the minister, or the ministry that proposed this law should see. It is true that in the environment, around, the largest number of countries have accepted the tax rate, but perhaps the economic environment, development and entrepreneurship in Serbia are not at that level that 18% would be a stimulating rate that would surely eliminate in the good part of the gray economy. The SRS would support this law, with the adoption of amendments submitted by our MPs, but should have reduced the percentage of the overall tax rate here, because there is no recovery of the economy until economic potentials are launched. I don't think there's any tax regulation that can stimulate the launch of the economy if it's not in the function of economic production. The law itself says in 16 members that more detailed provisions will be regulated by the ministry, or by the finance minister. It is probably one of the reasons why it should be suspected that this law can be applied as of 1 January 2005. Even in Article 36 of this Law, it says: "The Minister is closer to editing what is considered to be an art piece, a collector's good and antiquity as set out in Article 1 of this Article." I think this should be done by another minister, or another ministry, rather than the finance minister, because if it is from Minister Dinkic, it would be a lot, probably. Then, in Article 60 of this Act, in criminal provisions, if the FIB is not listed in each surrender document, a fine of 100,000 to 1,000 dinars is prescribed. So that's how much you're going to be punished for a violation by a taxpayer, or a legal person. I think it's too much of a fine, because this isn't about tax evasion, it's just that if, by any chance, it's about missing the FIB in that document. A slightly smaller sentence is intended for business entrepreneurs, but it is also a great punishment. Then, throw up your taxes within 45 days. In explaining this law, the minister said it was an average deadline. I think in some things, we should use some moments, where for businessmen, or entrepreneurs, there will be some benefits, not something that is in the environment, or perhaps even the worst version of us. I still think that at this general rate you should see that the percentage is something lower than it's supposed to be. In particular, we will talk about amendments and our objections to these members, in order to correct the text of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5141	The word has been made by MP Alexander Vukic, as deputy head of the parliamentary group, another ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5142	Each major rate will contribute significantly to inflation, increase inflation rates, we will have great trouble and problems to keep it, as seen in these countries that, by introducing VAT, wanted not only to receive the same amount of income, but also to significantly replace the budget deficit and achieve a large budget surplus. That is why I call on you to accept these amendments to the SRS MPs, and it is our job, to once again tell some MPs who spoke after our last statements and exits, who speak of what is the work of the opposition, to seek weak spots and to criticise the authorities. It's the work of the opposition, but it does it with real grounds and in a serious way. Those who want to play the opposition to others to blame are no opposition. I remind those from the party of the elected president of the Republic of Serbia that he has promised, although it is not his constitutional jurisdiction, to resolve the issue of jobs and the issue of living standards. There we are in a month, two and three outside Boris Tadic's door, Bogoljub Karic, as well as the Serbian Government, to ask them what's better in Serbia, whether they live better in Serbia. Since we know how and how you are able, how and how it will be in Serbia, then you will see what a people's reaction will be, equally against one, the other and the third, and what changes it will have to make in Serbia. And Serbia already understands today and Serbia is already fully clear on changes today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5143	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Goran Cvetanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5144	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as the mandated representative of the DSS has already said in its opening statement, the DSS will support the Bill on Value Added Tax not only because of the fact that we are harmonising our tax system with the European Union and with more than 100 states that have introduced VAT, but also because of the fact that the adoption of this regulation stimulates economic growth and creates regulatory frameworks for business, and in any case destamises business beyond regular flows of business. This is very important because by adopting this regulation, we are somehow rounding up a system of regulations that encourages investment in Serbia. We have passed the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, we have passed the Company Act, we have passed other regulations and in some way this law – and, of course, it is in the announcement that the law amending the Tax on Profits Act, which, as we will see, we are becoming the most attractive country to invest – to eliminate what was the fundamental negative side of the application of the Transport Tax Act, which is the fact that it was a great tax non-discipline, that the budgeting was weak, that it was a very reckless relationship to the state and a healthy economy, that there was unfair competition, that there were both privileged and monopolies. In the application of this law, it was believed that by just playing the rules, avoiding tax payments, it could easily and quickly reach profit, and thus it was damaged by whoever established all the conditions and all the rules of the competition, which is the state. This VAT, which means general consumption tax, is such a possibility if it does not completely rule it out, but it narrows it down to the minimum and creates the same conditions for all competitors on the Serbian market. As it was said, there were many non-payable privileged ones in the previous period, avoiding them because of the system of sales tax, as the tax was calculated only at one stage of the turnover of products and services. Mostly those who bear the greatest burden of paying taxes, which were the most hit by the tax administration (which, it must say, was completely covered by corruption in the previous period), were small entrepreneurs. They paid the most, they filled the budget, and they largely avoided it, using various political positions and political influence. Why VAT and what are the advantages of VAT is repeatedly highlighted here. This tax model selected the credit method because it monitors all the stages of the traffic cycle in which everyone participates in one cycle, and everyone is interested in VAT accounting in accounts, in showing in accounts, in order to obtain the right to tax credit and that the next in that cycle would not bear the obligation to pay the predecessors. There's everyone controlling and there's a minimum possibility of abuse. Generally, this tax is neutral for the taxpayer because the invoices received for the products and services delivered by other taxpayers at the same time have the right to deduct from their tax obligations. In some ways VAT is not, according to the receipts, the cost of business for the taxpayer. Of course, it is very important that the VAT insists on a wider tax coverage, and the number of tax exemptions, exemptions, comes down to a minimum and thus differs from the sales tax. Of course, I would like to reiterate the fact that in the case of sales taxes, the obligation to charge and pay taxes at the last stage has favoured avoidance of the tax liability. More than once here, the positive effects of this bill are highlighted when it is applied. This is a higher tax income, more effective opposition to tax ejaculation or tax avoidance. All participants in the traffic are taxed and all phases of the traffic cycle are monitored. As far as individual solutions are concerned in the bill itself, and here it is most debated about what is covered by the general tax rate, which is all covered by the special tax rate. I want to point out that the chosen general and special tax rates are in some way the average of those tax rates that we have in the European Union. We have up to 25%, but we also have the minimum prescribed by the Sixth Directive 15% for the general tax rate or 5% for the special one. The question was whether it was possible to make the full use of all the solutions in the Sixth Directive and Annex H, whether some products and services could have been released or subdued at a lower tax rate. The veterinary medicines for prevention are mentioned here. The directive says that literally lower rates can be applied to them. A lower rate under that directive could also be applied to natural gas and electricity. However, here I would concentrate on two questions. I think they are strategic and are already mentioned in previous discussions, so the minister will probably give them an answer, as one of the important definitions of economic policy is to stimulate housing, but also to stimulate exports. We have a fact that in the traffic of a newly built construction facility, payment is foreseen at a general rate of 18%. A few months ago, we adopted the Law on a national housing insurance corporation, and of course we need to see if this general tax rate, which applies to the sales tax of a newly built construction facility, can undermine the effects of applying the National Corporation Act and providing housing loans. In addition, when it comes to the transport of immovableity, we see different solutions in the European Union when it comes to the first transport of newly built real estate. We have a release in Denmark, Finland, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Sweden, Great Britain, Spain, Ireland, we have the fact that the newly built facility is taxed at a lower rate. It would be interesting to hear why this bill takes the view that newly built real estate is taxed at a general rate in the first traffic. The second question is the position of importers which are at the same time large exporters. We have the fact that, as foreseen by the value added tax law, VAT pays immediately on imports, along with customs duties, but we also have the fact that exports are free of VAT payments. Then, the fact that this is not about deduction, but about the request for return, and if the time at which the tax is applied is calculated, which is the accounting period, during which period the return is made in the case of the bulky exporters, and here is the estimated period of 15 days, we can get into the situation that importers and also exporters find themselves in a situation where they constantly enter into debt with business banks to pay VAT at the time of entry, until they wait for vomiting by the state. We know what interest is in business banks, what these duties are, especially when it comes to large funds. In addition, these importers and exporters are in a position to make those assets they import for foreign exchanges, to recover in dinar assets and may be in a position to be at a loss due to these exchange rates. We have examples in European countries, and this is what the Sixth Directive allows such businesses to in some way move the payment deadline for VAT on imports. It is mentioned here in one statement that an amendment is envisaged to carry out such security, or such payment, with the menu. These are questions that would be interesting to hear and will probably be answered by the minister, because we have defined ourselves in general to encourage exports, to strengthen exporters, and on the other hand to strengthen housing. In any case, unrelated to these issues, the DSS will support this law for the reasons that I set out at the outset, because it is a law that surrounds the system of incentive laws good for investment, and when the corporate tax is passed, we will have such conditions that investors will certainly not only invest, but also wish for business headquarters to move and open here in Serbia. In any case, once again, in the end, we support this reform, excellent law, which harmonizes us with the regulations of the European Union and will certainly make a improvement after the start of its application.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5145	Thank you. The People's MP Goran Cvetanovic has the word, and let the People's MP Vladan Vukicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on value added tax is a model that is in accordance with the Sixth Directive of the European Community, where taxes are charged in all stages of the production and transport cycle. Minister Dinkic said the bill represents a small revolution and I am truly fascinated by its flexibility, because he as a participant in the big revolution on October 5th and in a completely inappropriate way now participates in a small revolution in the economic sphere and is indeed in every praise for his behaviour. Since everyone boasts that Serbia should become a member of the European Community, and now a small child knows that Serbia cannot become a member of the European Community before 2016, it is interesting even if the president of Serbia yesterday after the inauguration said that during his five-year term it is difficult to achieve such a goal, although it is a priority, to realise and achieve it. Since I see that the DSS, and Kostunica too, is no longer talking about changing the constitution, and DS and DOS representatives say there will certainly be no early republican elections in a year, does this mean that there is an agreement that the constitution does not change, because it is said earlier that MPs should elect the president of Serbia in the assembly or something completely third. However, Mr Dinkic said the law is there not because of European integration, but to reduce the grey economy. The provisions of this law apply to all goods and services and goods imports since 1 January 2005. It is necessary to improve the situation in the economy over the next two years, and then start applying this law. Since it is claimed to be acting because of the reduction in the grey economy of this law and that this is the basis for the adoption of this law, I ask the minister a question as to how it is possible that he also proposed a tax exemption for goods temporarily imported and re-exported under the customs procedure, as well as on the contrary, which was precisely the good one as a generator of the grey economy. You can see that from Article 26 of this bill. The value added tax will cause inflation and will further burden both the financial and social situation of most Serbian citizens. The bill could have been better, above all, in a legal-technical context, but more attention was paid to two different tax rates that allow the tax administration's discretionary rights. More attention was paid to individual members of the bill, where too many powers were given to the competent minister, and some of the matter of this law had to be regulated by law, not left to be regulated by sublaws of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For the application of this law, the government has to solve several problems. First of all, the lack of free capital, the problem of the liquidity of the economy, because the economy is collapsing, and it is over-indebted, the budget deficit, which is evident, as well as production, which and how it must be increased. Criminal provisions already exist in the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, and therefore double punishment is unnecessary and inappropriate because it is already a matter regulated by law. In the end, I was just about to ask the minister, and he ran away, at least to pay attention to two amendments to the SRS. So, on an amendment where we insist that agricultural producers should be free from paying value added tax, as well as an SRS amendment to Article 24, which I will not quote because it is longer. But as a doctor, I would like to insist that the value added tax of medicines listed in the list of medicines prescribed and issued on the burden of health insurance funds, in accordance with health insurance regulations, orthotic and prosthetic means, medical means – products that are surgically incorporated into the body, as well as dialysis materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5147	The People's Messenger Vladan Vukicevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Rodoljub Gačević.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to understand what law we need to pass today and what benefits the citizens of Serbia and Serbia will benefit from this law, we must go back a little bit and remember those times when there was a tax of 43%, 60%, 86%, 23%, 20%, and, of course, we are now proposing, i.e. This value added tax law, that the general rate is 18%. We need to know that in the 1990s, Serbia's middle class was the most, that there were few poor people and that there were rich people. However, the time behind us has made today in Serbia we have people on the verge of existence. We don't have a middle layer at all and we have enormously rich people. It's not easy for ten years of work to get to a great fortune. A great fortune in ten years of work comes only by fraud and tax evasion. That's why I've listed how many steps have been in the past, to see how many people have in some way hidden themselves and come to a great deal of wealth. All that value added tax needs to be corrected at the moment. Of course, any change in Serbia is causing a dilemma. It's hard to change acquired habits. We want to go to Europe, we are full of Europe's mouth, and we do not want to accept any European law. All those MPs who today advocate that what has been better in the past, which is poverty today, simply advocate that those who robbed this country are the right citizens. That is why I believe, and as a businessman, I am absolutely behind this, that this law on value added tax will correct many things in the tax system and bring order. What's good is that it's being introduced by this law. First, it is good that the state will have a large and good budget inflow. What will the budget, if charged evenly, allow? It will enable regular pension payments, regular and quality payments of children's allowances and, of course, will allow for regular payment of all budgets, i.e. pay. In recent times, many have falsified their accounts while importing goods, always paying goods to an inopartner at one price and making lower invoices for the country and tax authorities in Serbia. After that, they demand that their goods be partially paid off through an invoice and partly in cash. The value added tax excludes such business option. It is also good that many businessmen have easily come to money, by marching their goods with a hundred, two hundred or three, and a thousand percent, and of course now they won't be able to, because that's where they're going to have to show their profits. What's not good is that we have two tax rates. It's better to have one tax rate, much easier to count on, and absolutely as a businessman, I'd say it's better to have one tax rate of 14% and then a rigorous criminal policy. I think that would give more financial results. As a businessman, I must say, it's not a good second tax rate, a special 8% tax. Now we have a situation where we have 8% of basic bread products, and the bread is still a social, economic and political category in this country. Of course, we also have pastries, buns, which are 18% each, and so are the social, economic and political categories in this country. I have to say about the town of Kragujevac, where there are a lot of unemployed people, where there are a lot of social cases, that there can be no kifla article that needs to be taxed at an 18% rate, because in some ways parents who are poor enough to give their child enough money to buy one breakfast bun, and since it's all from a bakery domain, I don't think it's right and that this article would have to be at the same rate as bread, and it has to be lower. In the end, I want to say that we will be in Europe before 2016. When we introduce these European laws and when we know that we are acting like normal people, when we realize that the opposition should be a constructive and constructive critic of the government, when we learn to behave, then we will surely go to Europe before. So this is how I get the impression, if someone suggested that cholera be introduced, then here's the division -- half would be for, and half against. We need to understand that what is good, which is constructive, which is right and what will absolutely bring financial flows into order, we have to accept. I support those MPs who care about the agrarian, but if we want real co-operation with the world, if we want to be a European state, to be in the family of European countries, then we have to accept those codes. No farmer will pay tax on a tractor, but it's a basic asset and the underlying asset is released, but we have to simply do what is necessary, and that is to legalize ourselves as businessmen. I support everything that is in the interest of improving Serbia's citizens and for these reasons I also support this law, and I believe that this law will bring economy and businesses into order, that it will create more regular payments, smaller speculations, and that citizens will quickly feel better from this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5149	The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it is said in the people - it is the law, then it is understood that it is something that no one can change individually, something that is clear, unequivocal and precise, which cannot be said for this bill. In fact, reading this bill reminded me of the story of how Prince Milos Obrenović, when they passed the law, first called Uncle Milija and ordered him to read to him, and then asked him – Uncle Milija, did you understand? No, nothing at all. It's not a good law. Write it again. I want Uncle Milly to understand it. This bill was given by a high-level accountant whose wife was a longtime controller in the Service of Payments, or former SDK, and who, when they read this law, eventually said that neither was clear nor understood. If he wasn't understood by those who needed to enforce, to control the law, what was left to the people, those taxpayers. We agree that the public is a taxpayer and should understand this law. I know this law needs to be passed and someone just said that we are against the law, all those who are being proposed here. However, we are only against those bad laws, those who are undefined, who have shortcomings. It's already been said what laws they are, but we're for all those laws to be settled, to be good and quality. That's exactly what the SRS is fighting for. We know these laws have other countries in our environment, except BiH, but not such vague, not so incomplete laws, which may be perfiduously calculated on the possibility of malfeasance, machination of the government and the minister, if not for the survival of crime in Serbia, because this is all permitted. I believe that in this law, above all, high tax rates, as was said earlier, are also criminal provisions, which are also inappropriate and very high. The reason behind this law states that the principle of destination i.e. taxation of goods and services by place of consumption means the release of exports from tax and the taxation of imports. That's what you can see from this legal one, and I couldn't see anywhere that it was. For example, in Article 23(2), it says that 8% of imports of fruit, vegetables, meat, fish and eggs are taxed. If it is difficult to ban all of this, why tax at such a rate, which is like importing those drugs that are necessary in the country. The second is the internal traffic of these items, however, these things are not separated. How to explain to farmers what meat is, or to sell cattle, what about agricultural and other products, such as fruit, vegetables, etc., when it is already permitted to import all of this. Due to these misunderstandings, that almost every other member there has a provision that says the minister is closer to editing and interpreting the members of the law, we wonder - why the law, if it will edit and determine the minister closer. He will do nothing but write interpretations and any other provisions of the law. If he may not, there is no possibility of abuse of all this, depending on the interpretation, according to party membership, family, godfather and other ties, if not that it can depend on the minister's mood itself. It's like that story again when Principal Milos Obrenovic agreed to sign the law, but to write one point that reads -- all this is going to be like this, if the book doesn't say otherwise. The translation would mean - everything will be like this if the minister doesn't say otherwise. So, for example. in Article 36, the Minister is closer to edits what is considered a work of art, and in Article 45 is governed by who has no obligation to issue an account, or by the right to return VAT in Article 52. I have gained confidence that all of this law enforcement work has been made and calculated because of Article 60, or because of the criminal provisions provided there - ranging from 100,000 to 1,000,000 dinars. So, punishments in article 60 with such measures as this. fine for unpaid VAT prescribed within 10 days of the expiry of the tax period, unlisted regular number or PIB, which has no special intention, which can be returned to the supplement, etc., but the penalty measures are from 100,000 to 1,000 dinars. Mr. Minister should know that this amount is a death dose for all small businesses and perhaps for some medium-sized enterprises. If you consider that personal incomes, someone said 16,000, perhaps for those who regularly paid personal incomes and those who handed over statistics to the Bureau for processing personal income data, but I know, for example, in Prepolje, that in a small number, perhaps two or three cases in businesses, personal income is greater than 5,000 to 6,000 dinars. Some have not received salaries, most of them since February of the month, so here we go. If that's what you mean, then imagine what a huge disproportion is between these criminal provisions and the possibilities on the other side. I am afraid that there is not another practice that has been seen before, which is that when the minister, when it is necessary to fill the budget, or the cash register, first calls the director of the income management, cuts up as much as anyone should bring into the state register, and then they call the executive bodies, or inspectors, who take the list of enterprises and bring in a plan of penalties. As soon as the inspector comes into some company and grabs hold of the company's handle, he knows how much the punishment is cut off. That legal lesson that is finally given, which says he has the right to appeal, but the appeal does not delay execution, is practically a cat about the tail, because I have not seen in practice any company where the appeal is accepted. Everywhere, the appeal is, as a rule, rejected. On the other hand, I have insight that the government, or the minister, I don't know who wrote all this bill, had more intention of filling the government's register with sanctions than tax sanctions, which is why these measures have been passed. These criminal penalties outweigh even the criminal penalties provided for in the most severe cases, tax evasion, etc. Let's say, if the penalty of 12,500 to 500,000 is punished by the entrepreneur, the physical person, from all of this I conclude and I suggest that this law be returned to completion, fill in the shortcomings and return to the assembly procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5151	Thank you. The word of the Messenger of the people is Zlatan Jovanovic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milko Šimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5152	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get one thing straight: the SRS is not against the value added tax law. The SRS has objections for a moment at which this law is proposed. We believe that the moment is not appropriate, that the Serbian economy has grown, weak, weak, so that this law could be applied in Serbia at this point. In order for this law to be applied in Serbia, the economy has to strengthen, we have to stand economically much better to apply these provisions of the law. Generally, this law is essentially prescribed by the Montenegrin law on value added tax. Some numbers have only changed, and the essence is the same and the solutions are the same. Generally, my first remark is that this law is rather vague, incomprehensible and complicated to apply. There will be a lot of problems in the application of this law, because those who need to implement it will not be able to cope with all this, they will not be able to accept this law first, in order to apply it in practice. It'll take a lot of time for them to get dressed, train, as you say, to apply this law in practice. The second thing that's general nature, the second thing I've noticed, the general, is that a lot of space has been left to the minister. Of the 64 members of this law, the minister in 16 members must act in some sublegal acts, meaning by various rules and instructions. It starts with the 4th member, where the finance minister is closer to editing what is considered a newly built construction facility, etc.; then, in Article 5, 6, 23, 24, 25, 30, etc. to Article 64. In 16 members, out of 60, it leaves room for the minister to regulate and regulate certain provisions of this law with sublaw. In this presentation, I'm going to look back at a few things that I think are important and that I have an objection to. First, Article 17 speaks of the tax base in the transport of goods and services. In his statement, the minister said that the application of this law would increase revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget by 50%. If this is carefully studied, and I tried to do so, you can see from this that, if the base and tax rate are the same, the tax amount is the same. Here is the tax rate of the reduction compared to the current, current rate of sales tax. Therefore, tax revenues will be somewhat lower. The question remains how the budget revenue will increase if, in the same conditions, at the same prices, the application of this law will lower revenue. These budget revenues will be increased by taxing both those things and those good ones that have not been taxed by sales tax so far. So, let's remind ourselves, since 2001, when DOS came to power, it was probably for the first time in recent history, taxes on some good, some products that had never existed before, among other things, on drugs, bread, textbooks and others, so the Dossovan authorities later saw this mistake in 2002 and 2003, some of which were corrected by amendments and additions to the law, where some of these products were exempt from sales taxes. So, these 50% of the budget revenues that will increase by applying this law, in fact, belongs to a tax that will be collected by taxing both bread and flour, milk, textbooks and teaching tools, seeds, seed goods, artificial fertilizers and other things that have not been taxed by sales tax so far. The same effect could be achieved, meaning higher budget revenue and a reduction in the grey economy, if these laws are not adopted, if it remains with the existing Transport Tax Act, but if inspections, market and financial, are activated and engaged to do their job responsibly. Even this new law itself will not bring positive effects unless we have capable and up-to-date inspections to control the implementation of this law. So, the problem is with inspections that, to the most extent, have not properly implemented existing laws. If this law is not accompanied by adequate behaviour and activities, by the involvement of inspection, both market and financial, then the effects will not be in this case either. The second remark concerns Article 23, which speaks of tax rates. This proposal provides for two tax rates: 18% and 8% respectively. I was just talking about it. Here it is very important, very important to be introduced again, because it was introduced in 2001, bread tax, milk, flour, sugar, edible oil, fresh and chilled fruit, vegetables, meat, fish, eggs, medicines, orthotic and prosthetic products, dialysis materials, fertilizers, plant protection products, seeds for reproduction, textbooks, teaching materials, etc. All of this was freed from sales taxes. Now that tax comes back again, at an 8% rate. I am now interested, as the minister said that by applying that 8% rate to lower the prices of these products on the market, I would like the minister to be there and to convince me, I am interested in how it is possible to lower prices on the market if tax is introduced, and so far there has been no tax. The minister says - prices will be reduced, because taxes will be rejected because they are paid for raw materials. Gentlemen, so far we have not paid taxes on repromaterials and raw materials. So far, manufacturers have obtained re-promaterials and raw materials without sales taxes with a statement. How the price of these products will now be lower if these 8% are introduced into the final product, and besides, there will be taxes on re-promaterials, and on raw materials at 8% and 18%. So it's impossible to lower those prices. The prices of these products will be higher and this will cause inflation, an increase in the cost of life, which will negatively affect the standard of Serbian citizens and, of course, the overall life in Serbia. What's even more important here is that the introduction of taxes on raw materials and repromaterials will burden producers. So, the legal persons involved in manufacturing now will have to pay for semi-factories, raw materials and repromaterials 18% more than ever before. They don't have those funds. Production will be much more expensive, much more difficult to produce in these conditions. It returns precisely to the beginning of my presentation, when I said that Serbia's economic position should first be strengthened, production needs first to be strengthened, production in Serbia is revived, and only business entities that are financially more powerful and capable can move on to this taxation system. Until then, it is impossible to apply this, because by applying this system we will also choke this little production left in Serbia. Also, a member who remains unclear to me is a member of 34 talking about farmers. It's unclear what the promoter wanted with this measure, which he wrote here, to achieve. If I understand correctly, farmers who sell their products to legal entities that are bonds under this law will receive a VAT fee of 5%. I found no explanation of what this fee means, but in Montenegrin law, I found that it was a particular stimulant for agricultural producers, because they pay this tax by buying machinery, buying materials, various repromaries, etc. I can accept that. But I can't quite accept that this country is so generous, that farmers want to be honored and rewarded in any way. Here is something that is ultimately very bad, which is the attitude of the 5th member, which says that a farmer can be defined as paying VAT if he makes traffic in a calendar year greater than one million dinars. This provision does not oblige farmers to be defined for payment of VAT. I ask you - then what does this provision mean. Which means someone can, but they don't make a commitment. I personally accept this, and I accept this, that farmers are being stimulated in some way, that the 5% VAT is being left to them as a reward, but I don't understand the 5th attitude that tells me or leaves the farmer to plead and accept the payment of VAT, which will have a negative impact on agricultural production. And, at the very end, it says in its explanation -- financial means to implement this law; nowhere is the figure, but it is said to require large funds and it is obvious and clear. It even mentions the education of the debtors, the media campaign, but what is most important here and what will require the most funding is education inspection, or people who will have to enforce this law. It takes a lot of time and money to get them to accept this first and that they can do this in practice. In the end, I would ask the chairman to reset the system, as there are many MPs who have left, according to Article 117, and the cards remain. Just to determine the true state of affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5153	The word has a folk MP, Milko Šimac, and let Milan Stanimirovic be prepared. Can I help you? According to the Rules of Procedure, before that, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5154	Article 117 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, under which MPs are required to carry identification cards with them when leaving the National Assembly. It is obvious that only two MPs are in the fifth row and even four cards are there.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5155	Thank you. I'm asking professional services to check the fifth row, just say which side. Does he have a card? Please, I warn MPs to respect Article 117, which Mr Sarovic has just quoted, and Article 217, by which all MPs, who are in constant work, are on permanent incomes, and employees in the Assembly, are obliged to keep their identification cards in MPs' units during their stay in the hall. Thank you. The People's Messenger Milko Stimac has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5156	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, as it is a matter of principle, you will allow me to, before I specifically speak about the value added tax law, which we have already heard a lot of exhaustive discussions, mentioning another topic, which is only seemingly not about what we are talking about today and what is the subject of the fourth item of the agenda, that is privatisation. Dear counterpart Markovic, from the Democratic Party, mentioned in his presentation, in addition to all other topics, the privatisation itself, in the context of privatisation and the ruling coalition. I personally felt called, as president of the Privatisation Committee, simply invited to highlight two things. First, the Assembly is the holder of the Supreme Authority in the Republic of Serbia. She has her own authority - the Privatisation Committee. In this committee, which I am proud to point out, representatives of all parliamentary groups cooperate as well as in any other. Now, if you gave God that this congregation is doing as well as the Privatisation Committee does, we would be much faster, much easier and simpler to come to all of those goals that we have all declared in our political programmes. With this in particular, I would like to stress that this is not the case to bring the present moment of privatisation in connection with the ruling coalition. On the contrary, the Privatisation Committee, in which, in the same way as everyone else, the Democratic Party's representatives, respected counterparts Petrovic and Knezevic, adopted a document aimed not to challenge privatisation, but rather to make what is the primary objective of privatisation - how to make it more efficient, in order to make the economy itself, through the privatisation process more efficient. And above all, this document applies to all other, accompanying institutions, or parts of the system that need to monitor privatisation. That's why I once again refuse every insinuation in the direction that someone is holding back the privatisation, that someone is against privatisation. No parliamentary group, whose representatives sit in the Privatisation Committee, has ever questioned the meaning and justification of privatisation in any way. On the contrary, I say once again, we all stressed that privatisation is necessary rather than more efficient businesses. Now, this word -- efficiency, basically connects us to today's theme, with value added tax. I have already said that the previous speakers in their presentations highlighted some of the basic features of the value added tax, in general the tax system, which rests in this way. This is VAT, general consumption tax, which is calculated and paid for the delivery of goods and the provision of services at all stages of the production and transport of goods and services, as well as on imports of goods, where it represents a consumption tax, replacing the existing sales tax of products, services, etc. However, there are three basic features of value added tax that I would like to highlight, which represent its essence. First, that it is fair, to enable a even expansion of the tax base, while at the same time disabling what we have in the case of sales taxes, which is to transfer the tax burden to only one participant in the chain of production, i.e. services. Then, it's simple to apply to the taxpayers. He certainly approves the tax administration itself, but it's already a matter of preparing the tax administration. The period of six months will be, I suppose, quite enough for the administration to get used to it, that is, to train to calculate and apply it. For the taxpayer himself, he's much simpler and cheaper. Finally, we come up with this key word -- it's more efficient, it increases tax revenues, and thus allows for a reduction in the tax rate. In previous contacts with manufacturers, with merchants, I had the opportunity to hear it needed to be introduced much earlier, to make their job easier. That it's simpler for them. Chuck, there are suggestions to be introduced from October 1st. So the manufacturers and traders themselves have already understood its essence, these good qualities, and they're ready to apply. In addition to this -- efficiency, it is especially important to emphasise that here is also repeatedly said, and that is that it reduces the gray economy. I would call it much more open and explicit -- it allows for the control of corruption. The key word of corruption is something that has stalled reforms so far. It's something we've had to deal with at this point, which has been going on for several months. Corruption has been raised to the system level. She's institutionalized, unfortunately. The value added tax should practically enable businesses to pay taxes, not a racket through the bribery of those who decide on their profits. So the tax is paid to the state, the budget, instead of being used to bribe ministers, who would then, of course, cut off their fingers, rip off their heads and promise. It may be about ministers who wanted to be surgeons, but that's a whole different story. As for our parliamentary group and our party, one thing is symptomatic. Every time we get to one of the key moments, when we need to step up to reforms, to one improvement in the environment in which we all live and work, to normalize the situation, we face the avalanche of the attack. So when we come to something that should be used by everyone in Serbia, which should make the economy more efficient, the answer is always to attack the G17 plus. This happens to us all the time, in continuity, we're just used to keeping quiet, pushing our political agenda, insisting on it. Of course, from time to time we have to answer that question. But so far, we haven't called anyone, and we haven't made a good argument before, and so we come to a simple fact, which is that we haven't called anyone for no reason, and that the ones we called were very quickly fallen. On the other hand, those who called us also fell. It's a simple fact again. There's no such thing as a G17 plus. In three words, we're clean, we've always been and we'll stay that way. This can now sound like a series of paroles, but these are facts and it's just like that. Of course, it usually increases the attacks on us more. Once again, I would remind myself that everything that has been said about us has proved to be incorrect, and what we have presented has proved true, and the judiciary is now dealing with everyone we have called. Again, we are called by those whom our entire political programme and our endeavor do not respond, so this normalization of the economic situation I was talking about. It is those who live on an unsettled Serbia, from an unsettled economy, those who capitalise on people's torment, whether they take dirty money, whether they capitalize that people's torment in another way. Their main problem is that we are breaking through our consistent activity all these schemes and what we will continue to endure. The value added tax, it doesn't need to get carried away, it can't simply cross corruption in Serbia, cross all of these schemes, all of this that's been going on for ten to fifteen years, but in any case it's a significant step in that direction. That's why our parliamentary group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5157	The word has a folk MP Milan Stanimirovic, and if there is time, let Mrs Verica Radeta prepare herself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5158	Mr. President, distinguished fellow MPs, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic will support the law on value added tax, as already pointed out by the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Mr. Vlahovic, in terms of transforming Serbia's public finances into so-called. The third wave of public finance reforms. We find it very important to pass this law on value added tax. How long will this government last? If it continues to put on the agenda the legal proposals of the previous government, and these legislative proposals really do have a lot, it will take at least a year and we will be on the right path again. Due to the political instability that took place in the previous year, this law did not enter into force on 1 January 2004, as originally envisaged, even on 1 July 2004, and we really hope that according to a proposal that has now been put into effect before lawmakers on 1 January 2005, it will indeed round up the transformation of public finances. The generations that come will not really remember us by who he said about this speaker, but by who did what for the people and for the state. And we are not chosen here to worry about political officials and their parties, but to take care of the people and the economic work of our country. For the past three and a half years, the stability and predictability of the system has indeed been established, the decades-long economic Sun has been halted, certain results have been achieved that no one can deny, so small inflation, stable currency, increasingly better economic conditions, not the best economic conditions, but the better. Further, settled public finances, which are one of the basic conditions on which the quality of one government is assessed. We were aware over the past period of the previous government that the easiest thing to do was to give unearthed points that way. We require this government to behave responsibly, although the economic environment and the current situation does not give us the right to do so at the moment. Public functions are often mentioned here as an example, as an ocean tanker, and it's very dangerous to make some sudden turns, because that ship can very easily roll over. There must be no kind of adventure in tax policy, because there has indeed been an apparent progress since 2000 to this day. It is necessary to introduce value added tax as an invention that will replace sales tax from 1 January 2005, because it is indeed a tax where the state returns surplus and at the same time effectively reduces the grey economy, which is certainly the goal of all, and real growth in revenues in the budget will be increased by about 50%. The application will depend greatly on the economic conditions in which this law is being applied, and there are some indicators calling for an alert. The money left to the budget by the previous government has already been spent, privatisation has been stopped, and therefore a panic request to speed up the privatisation process, which has been practically stopped over the past few months, no donations, no foreign investments. The process of restructuring large public enterprises, such as EPS and railways, has been stalled. Also, a reduction in foreign exchange reserves is evident. We had an alarming announcement that the euro course will reach 80 dinars by the end of the year, directly from Governor Jelasic. Inflation will almost certainly go above 10%. To remind this home, inflation was 113% year-on-year in 2000, when we arrived. In 2001 it was 40.6%, 14.8% year-on-year in 2002, 7.8% in 2003, and the projected coverage for this year should not exceed 7%. It is now clear that inflation will surely exceed 10%. Two objections to this law, which is two tax rates, so 18 percent general and 8 percent special, because we believe that the elimination of all discretionary rights is good and that these two tax rates should not function like this, and effective application will depend largely on the efficiency and willingness of the tax administration to implement this law. So, we have a serious correction of the tax system, tax cuts, the introduction of a gray economy into a tax zone, and the goal must be to become the most favourable in the tax system in the region, and I hope this home will manage to establish, I mean, such a system; therefore, the restructuring of large public enterprises, without which there is no recovery of this state, and the accelerated privatisation that we have seen is currently stalled, but these are all the problems that we have to solve. Here I have warned of the general economic environment in which we adopt this set of tax laws, that we must pay attention and that we must not allow our public finances to be questioned and their functioning in the way that it worked in the previous period. So, DS – Boris Tadic will support the law on value added tax, because we think it is a good law, that it is reformal and that it will help us to get closer to the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-12-0.u5159	Thank you. We will continue, but please, a little announcement, I was not present today, so one MP has asked a parliamentary question. Unofficially, I am merely informing all MPs, therefore, during the extraordinary session, only if it is envisaged that it is possible to ask parliamentary questions at the sitting itself, otherwise it is not possible, and otherwise all of them are being forwarded, and this question is immediately forwarded in the usual manner. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, first and foremost, good afternoon. We are continuing the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 99 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We inform you that she was prevented from attending the session of the National Messenger Milena Milosevic. You have received the resignations of Milutin Zastanovic, Rados Ljusic, Branislav Ristivojevic, Branimir Trajkovic and Nenad Lemajic as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these paragraphs, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88, paragraphs 1 and 2 and 3. The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments establishes the termination of the term of office of these Members of Parliament on the day of their resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the mandate ended, before the time was up for the elected MPs Milutin Zastanovic, Rados Ljusic, Branislav Ristivojevic, Branimir Trajkovic and Nenad Lemajic, elected from the election list Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of the resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE TaxES ON THE CONTAINED WORTHY (resuming in principle-97; details) I give the word to the National MP Verice Radeti, and let the MP Momir Marković be prepared.
