ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 197 MPs attend today's session. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, Vladimir Jovanovic, Aleksandar Vlahovic and during the afternoon work, Zoran Micovic. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to review and adopt proposals for the laws proposed by the Serbian government to be considered by an urgent procedure. You have accepted the resignation of Vuk Draskovic as a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of MP Vuk Draskovic's term of office on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate ended before the end of the time elected to MP Vuk Draskovic, elected from the Serbian Renewal Movement election list - Nova Serbia - Vuk Draskovic - Velimir Ilic. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. You were presented with records of the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 7, 8, 13, 14, 15, 19 and 20 April 2004, the ninth session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 20, 21 and 22 April 2004 and the 10th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 29 April 2004. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions, as referred to in Article 82(3). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the eighth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 7, 8, 13, 14, 15, 19 and 20 April 2004. For 128, they did not vote 74, a total of 202 MPs. I conclude that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the eighth session of the First Regular National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held in 7, 8, 13, 14, 15, 19 and 20 April 2004. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 20, 21 and 22 April 2004. For 127, it did not vote 79, a total of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 9th session of the First Regular National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 20, 21 and 22 April 2004. I am voting on the minutes of the 10th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 29 April 2004. For 126, they did not vote 82, a total of 208 MPs. I conclude that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 10th session of the First Regular National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 29 April 2004. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the national housing insurance corporation, which submitted to the National Assembly on 19 April 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, against 80, seven, a total of 215 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Insurance Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 April 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, against 88, two of the 217 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 19 April 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, against 90, two of the 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Securities Market Act and other financial instruments, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 April 2004, should be put on the agenda of the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, against 91, three of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 April 2004, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, against 89, four of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, against 91, a abstentioned one, one did not vote, of a total of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2004, be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, against 91, it did not vote four out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the registration of business entities, which submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2004, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, against 89, six of the 221 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the Agency for Business Registers be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, against 88, nine of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Violations, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2004, be put to the vote. For 126, against 93, three of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Goran Paunovic, based on members 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Credits, Proposal for a Insurance Act, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Market of Papers of Values and other Financial Instruments and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement (points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the proposed agenda); and a joint principled review on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration (paragraphs 6 and 7 of the proposed agenda). Does MP Goran Paunovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 127, against 88, it did not vote seven out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Branislav Ristivojevic, based on members 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on the Registration of Business Entities and the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Economic Registers (points 8 and 9 of the proposed agenda). Does MP Branislav Ristivojevic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 125, against 93, five of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 125, against 94, three of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the 11th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law on the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Loans, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a Insurance Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Market of Securities and other financial instruments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 8. Proposal for a law on the registration of economic operators submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 9. Proposal for a law on the Agency for Economic Registers, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 10. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Violations, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As proposals for the examination of acts under emergency procedure have been accepted, the committees responsible, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports during the session. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle search on proposals... Excuse me, according to the Rules of Procedure? Please excuse me, Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2626	Dear colleagues, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, first objection to Parliament's dignity. The reason we're here is because we're passing laws on an emergency procedure. For the last three months, more or less, we have been working on an emergency procedure, which makes it impossible for MPs to adequately prepare for the discussion, and we get whole sets of laws, and there are no serious discussions afterwards. Of course, I've taken the floor of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm not going to abuse that call. I came forward because I think the provision of our Rules of Procedure, which provides limited time for a five-hour discussion, is a good provision. We need first of all to be economical, but our work must not be lost to its quality. If we, for the serious points of the agenda, for the united points of the agenda, as we have today, practically five laws, insist that we talk only five hours, or that the MP groups have all forty minutes to talk about five laws, we simply will come to the conclusion that one MP can only 15 seconds and 8 hundredths of a second talk about one item of the agenda. So, not the slow quality of the changes in the Rules of Procedure two years ago, when we found that we should be economical, but we can't go to the expense of quality. Therefore, my proposal today, in accordance with Article 90(3), is to set a double time for discussion of these five united points of the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2627	Thank you. I remind the MPs that the draft laws on the agenda today, by emergency procedure, will say that by the opening of a principled search, amendments can be submitted to the MPs on 20 April, following a request from the government of the Republic of Serbia since 19 April, so 15 days ago. But since a representative of the DS parliamentary group has suggested that the debate time for parliamentary groups stands, Mr Markovic, did I understand you well, for 10 hours, this proposal is being decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 95, against 116, six of the 217 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the SRS parliamentary group - 1 hour 38 minutes and 24 seconds; the DSS - 1 hour three minutes and 36 seconds; the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes 24 seconds; G17 plus 37 minutes and 12 seconds; the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; the SPS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs, five minutes each, paragraph 89. Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - PROPOSALS ON NATIONAL CORRPORATION FOR CREDIT CREDIT SERVES; OBJECTIVES; SERBIA SERBIA LAWS; COMPLETE TO THE COURT OF PUBLIC AUTHORITIES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS; AMENDMENTS OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY LAW (Common principled search 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda) Does Mr Mladjan Dinkić, Minister of Finance, want a word? Here you go. In the meantime, I would like to inform you, on the basis of Article 38, that an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group on points 1 to 5 of the agenda will be the MP Igor Mirovic; according to the same member as the representative of the DS parliamentary group for point 1 Milan Markovic, a member of the parliamentary group, and for other points Bojan Pajtic, a member of the parliamentary group. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2628	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we will discuss five proposals for system laws, which should improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens and further improve our financial system. First, let me say a few words about the bill on the national housing insurance corporation. As you know, today banks rarely, almost spontaneously, approve long-term housing loans. There are more reasons for that. First of all, it is a crisis of trust in the banking system, which was created in the 1990s after the roles of citizens in banks were frozen, when the problem of old foreign savings arose. As a result, banks are mostly short-term deposits today, although we have about a billion and 300m euros in savings deposits. They're mostly stakes up to a year. If the bank has short-term funds based on such roles, it is not possible to approve long-term loans and therefore the banks are almost not going into the housing process at all. It is quite clear, given that it is a capital investment for households and individuals, that a housing loan without at least 20 years of payment and with an interest rate which must be a single-digit cannot be treated as a favourable credit. In order for Serbia to foster housing lending, it must intervene with the establishment of such an institution -- a national corporation for the insurance of residential loans. If this law was not passed and if we let the market only regulate housing loans, our estimates at the ministry say Serbia will not be able to have favourable housing loans for the next five to ten years. The model that we adopted here was done together with experts from the Canadian housing insurance company, because Canada represents one of the countries that has solved the problem of homeless people in the world, through the provision of favourable housing loans. This project has been prepared for almost two years and I am truly pleased that it is finally in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia before you. The essence of this institution's work is to provide long-term housing loans that banks approve of citizens. In fact, insurance should serve the bank to reduce its risk and make up for most of the costs incurred, i.e. losses, which would arise if the citizen ceases to settle his wars on the basis of the acquired housing loan. Under this proposal, corporations will have the opportunity to secure a significant part of the risk, given that the project has been prepared for nearly two years. The institution's business plan envisions that up to 85% of the bank's risk will be taken over by the institution. In this way, the risk of banks will be reduced, if they have to, unfortunately, collect the mortgage, avoid being lost and go bankrupt. If this law is passed, it will accelerate the development of a whole range of industrial branches, for example. such as construction, because this institution will provide guarantees for credit to construction firms for new construction, but will also accelerate the development of the electrical equipment industry, furniture and all other household supplies. According to the bill, the Serbian government is 100% owner of the corporation's actions at the time of its establishment. Serbia's budget envisions 10m euros as the corporate's initial capital, which will also provide funds for its work. The company will guarantee business banks loan insurance with its total capital and can, under this law, ensure the amount of loans that are maximum 16 times higher than the corporate capital amount, which means that if the initial capital is 10m euros, guarantees can be issued up to a total of 160m euros. With the development of the real estate market and an increase in the size of housing, corporations will become a growing financial independent institution and will operate more on a commercial basis. The law also allows for the recapitalisation of this institution, both additional budget recapitalisation and privatisation, but not less than 49% of the shares, which means that this institution is expected to remain always in majority state-owned ownership that can at least be 51%. I'd like to briefly explain the way this institution works. So it's banks that approve loans. Banks approve housing loans to citizens, and then they can decide whether they want these loans to be secured by a national housing insurance corporation. If they want insurance, then they will receive special forms to give all those citizens who have a request to receive a housing loan, taking into account the total household incomes, other fixed expenditures: rent, electricity costs, possibly for wars based on other loans that someone in the household has raised. On the basis of this point, a residential loan will be granted, with the insurance of this institution. To be clear, banks will not be obliged to use the services of this institution, but given that only two banks currently in the country approve housing loans, and on relatively unfavourable terms, we are safe, because together with the banks and we have done a draft of this law, that a large number of banks will be involved in this process and that housing loans will finally become a mass phenomenon in Serbia, as is the case in other countries. After the point is made and the loan is secured, the property to be bought, the apartment or house is mortgaged, and one to one. It's far more favourable than it is on the market now, because banks are now looking for a double or triple security amount. Here on that property that is purchased will be mortgaged and on the basis of these mortgages will be performed, in case of disorderly settlement of obligations, payment of claims. If a bank in some period, over a few years, if someone does not properly serve its obligation, is forced to collect the mortgage and receive less money from it than it has given for a residential loan, the loss is covered by the capital of this corporation. Thus, the corporation does not cover the total loss of the bank, but only the difference between the loan granted at the present moment and the potential loss that would be achieved by selling the mortgage at a price lower than this market price. If I sell mortgages, by chance, achieve higher value, then the corporation of course does not engage in funds because there is no loss for the bank. Therefore, the amount of guarantees may be up to 16 times higher than the value of the capital. According to our budgets, 10m euros in capital will be quite enough for the institution to work for at least the next three years, given this amount of guarantees it will give and that this capital will be spent only in rare situations, in situations where the bank loses. We also mean that those who take credit, our citizens, are neat payers. It will certainly be 97% of the return rate of bank loans, but this will stimulate banks to move into the lending process, because they know they will have a guarantee of the state. The interest will be one-digit, that's for sure, and the payment deadline won't be shorter than 20 years. So the deadline will most likely be between 20 and 30 years, and the interest will be a maximum of 9% per year, with it being quite clear that, as time moves along and the more the mortgage credit market develops, that interest will fall. It is likely that something similar will happen here as when mobile phones are introduced into Serbia. At first, it was a relatively high price, and today the largest number of citizens use mobile phones. We have to go into the process in order to make it through time to make housing loans a normal phenomenon on the market. When housing credit becomes more massive, and we predict that this institution starts working in the fall this year and during the following year to develop its operations completely, then the corporation will take over claims from banks based on mortgages and mortgages, as collateral, will broadcast its own records of values to be called mortgages. These records will be sold on the market and the money derived from the sale of securities will be given to banks to grant new loans, so that with a capital of 10m euros insurance can truly be provided by a large number of apartments. It's a figure of at least 50,000 apartments. You know for a fact that in the last ten years, housing has, unfortunately, been under 10,000 apartments a year. Of course, this institution will charge, the bank will charge a premium of insurance, which will be calculated in costs, and thus the corporate capital will permanently increase. As for the conditions for citizens, they will be determined by the corporate business plan. In countries with similar institutions, it is a practice that the level of the monthly rate based on housing credit cannot exceed 60% of total household income. It seems to me that this will stimulate our citizens to report actual income, because a good portion of the income is not registered today. If they want to get credit, members of the household will likely be stimulated to report actual revenues, so they can raise a war that can be maximum up to 60% of the total household income, meaning not whoever is looking for the credit, but the total income of the household. Also, what's going to be a condition is that the apartment has to be registered regularly, so it's possible to put a mortgage on it, so the bank can secure its claim. I have to say that this will probably put pressure on the authorities of local self-government and the republican authorities to book something at a faster pace than it has ever been, because citizens themselves in their housing claims will press to enroll the facilities that are subject to credit. In fact, loans will be provided both for the purchase of new apartments and houses or for the construction of new houses, as well as for the purchase of already built houses or apartments or parts of these facilities. Also, this institution will contribute to the development of the insurance market, as citizens will conclude a life insurance agreement with the insurance company, as well as a contract to secure assets from unforeseen circumstances, more force, floods, fires and other things. So these are the basics of this institution's work. What is important is that this represents a chance to encourage construction in Serbia and finally start our citizens to solve the housing issue through credit. I repeat again, without public intervention in this sector, if we leave it to the market, our banks, given everything that happened in the 1990s, will not be able to approve long-term favourable housing loans in the next five, six, seven, eight years. As for the second bill of law that is before you, it is also a very important system law – insurance law. I'll tell you what the basics of the paper are compared to the previous law. First of all, we have to realize that there is no order in the insurance market. I won't say there's chaos, but there's no order in any case, because citizens rarely use insurance companies' services, mostly when they're forced to do so, when they provide cars or possibly apartments. The problem is that there are very solid insurance companies on the market, but also insurance companies that never pay full damages. The new insurance law needs to introduce order on the insurance market and lead to only serious companies being able to deal with this business, so they don't cheat on citizens, because it's not worth anything to citizens if they pay their money to an insurance company, and tomorrow the insurance company doesn't pay them any damages. This law is in line with the European Union directives and was made together with experts from the World Bank. The basic news is that there is a significant increase in the price for the establishment and operation of insurance companies, as follows: one million euros for accident insurance and voluntary health insurance; two million euros for life insurance and other property insurance; 2.5m euros for motor vehicles insurance and liability insurance; three million euros will be capital censorship for those companies dealing with voluntary pension insurance; and 4.5m euros will be a censor for insurance companies dealing with resecuritisation operations. This is about 123% growth in capital censorship compared to the current law. Why are we raising capital censorship? In order to ensure the basic principle of insurance, which is to increase the protection of insurance companies, i.e. users of these services. In the event that damages are to be paid, the company must have adequate capital so that the damage can be adequately and paid. The basic distribution of life insurance and non-life insurance business is also being introduced and a single classification of the types of insurance is being carried out within these two groups of jobs. I must say, for the current insurance companies, a period of adaptation is foreseen for some of the provisions laid down in this law by 31 December 2004, and for others until 31 December 2005. Thus, insurance companies will have plenty of time to adjust their business to these new, sharper business residents. The law strengthens the conditions for the establishment of new stock companies or conditions for entry into stock ownership in existing societies, by more strictly checking the stockholders' credits. It is necessary that they have three years of credited balances and that they are, of course, satisfactory, so that one who has the pretense to be a co-owner of a shareholder society would be a credible institution that can be trusted. The same conditions are also required for members of the Management Board and members of the Supervisory Board of Insurance Companies, as well as for authorised actuaries. The conditions of control of insurance companies are strengthened by the provision of a permanent maintenance and liquidity monitoring obligation and the three-month reporting obligation of the liquidity control authority, so that no insurance company can respond to its obligations in the event of damages. Additional instruments are also introduced to monitor the business of insurance companies, such as insolvency margin, internal audit, risk management rule, and in line with EU standards. There are also a whole series of details that improve control and reduce the risk of the work of insurance companies, and what I would like to point out as a special newspaper is that supervision, control of the work of insurance companies is entrusted to the National Bank of Serbia. I must say, there are three solutions in the world to institutions that oversee the work of insurance companies. In a small number of countries, it is done by the finance ministry; in most countries, it is done by an independent agency. These are mainly developed European countries. In some countries, where there is chaos in the insurance market, as is our case, central banks do, for the reasons that I'm going to tell you in the next few minutes. The decision to oversee the performance of the insurance activity is motivated by the following reasons. First, the National Bank of Serbia already has well-trained and qualified bank supervisory personnel, and often banks are founders of insurance companies and business insurance and banking are intertwined, making it a good basis for better control. Also, the central bank has developed information technology and equipment. The formation of an independent agency would require additional budget costs. It is a very important factor, because it would have to start over to form an institution, to buy equipment, to finance fixed and general costs, and it would also have to form a completely new infrastructure and logistics. The aim is to make control of the work of insurance companies effective and to start within a shorter period of time. If the agency were to be formed within the next year, it would not be able, nor would it be able to proceed with the control of the work of the insurance companies, and as far as the central bank is concerned, but as of autumn, the central bank will, within the framework of a special directorate, be trained to monitor and control insurance companies in accordance with this law. There's also another reason. In developed European countries where surveillance operations are carried out by an independent agency, which are EU countries, and independent agencies are also overseeing the work of insurance companies, as well as supervision of the work of banks. Both work is done within the same institution. For Serbia, which is in the medium transition period, it is too early for the supervision of banks to be removed from the central bank. Over five to ten years, the central bank will deal exclusively with monetary policy, but it is the time it takes to unite the operations of the insurance and bank control in the same institution, so that tomorrow, when the time comes, it can be moved out of it and that the new institution can later function. These are basic provisions, and criminal policy is tightened to disrespect the provisions of this law. There are four crimes in cases of the most serious violations of the law. As regards the potential privatisation of insurance companies, the law provides that a general privatisation regime is to be applied in accordance with the applicable regulations, but it is also given the authority of the Ministry of Finance that it can also launch an initiative for the privatisation process, which does not affect the Ministry of Economy's powers under the Privatisation Act and the Company's Law. It just spreads a circle of subjects that can launch an initiative for the privatisation process. That's what the biggest newspaper in one seems to me to be a very modified but key system law to regulate this segment of the financial market. The next law ahead of you is an amendment to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. The law changes only in one member, which allows for what I was just saying, that the National Bank of Serbia is also doing a supervisory of the work of insurance companies. The law on the National Bank of Serbia normally requires the central bank to take care of the stability of the entire financial system; given that insurance companies form an unbreakable part of the financial system, hence the decision to take control of the central bank and of this sector. The fourth draft law before you is a brief amendment to the Securities Market Act, which should allow for a more efficient way of privatising banks that have majority government capital. In fact, you know that on the basis of the conversion of debts to Paris and the London Club in the property of the state of the Republic of Serbia, the state has become a majority shareholder in a number of banks and that in the course of the preparation of the privatisation process in a number of banks. This process cannot be effectively realised unless the business is entrusted to the Bank Rehabilitation Agency, which will then be the entity, which will call a tender for the privatisation of banks with majority government capital, or with capital where the state has more than 25% of the participation. This amendment of the law was made in accordance with world practice and in consultation with the World Bank. As far as the fifth bill before you is concerned, it's an amendment to the Public Procurement Act. There have been a number of legitimate objections to the application of the current law, and the ministry has decided to meet both the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and domestic companies that have complained of inefficient procedures and the privileged treatment of foreign bidders in the procurement process. This law gives more favourable status to suppliers of domestic products. The law states -- domestic bidders, but it is also understood that domestic product providers, domestic goods and domestic services mean goods produced in Serbia. Such bidders will, under this law, have 20% of the price advantage over foreign competition, which is what we want to encourage the national industry. Also, public procurement costs have been reduced, as ads will only be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia for procurement worth up to three million dinars for goods and services, i.e. up to 15 million dinars for construction and other works. Therefore, the obligation to publish ads in foreign publications is abolished in the case of lower public procurement values, in order to free companies from unnecessary costs. Also, significantly reduced costs of the process, no competitive documentation for the value of public procurement under 12 million dinars for goods and services, or below 120 million dinars for works, and that documentation will be valid for bidders for six months, the period of validity has been extended. Procedures have been simplified, conditions for participation of legal and natural persons in competitions and tenders have been split. Emergency procurement can be implemented immediately without prior opinion of the Public Procurement Authority, and in accordance with the procedure provided for in this law. This law provides for more effective control and ensures the protection of bidders, but, on the other hand, also of public interest. Applications for the protection of rights under this law may also be submitted by tenderers participating in the tender, as well as by the Public Procurement Administration. In order to establish more effective control, the status of members of the tenderer's rights commission is improved, as they are elected for a period of four years and have equal status with the director of a special administrative organisation, which increases the ranking of the commission president and gives him greater authority. It is the same with members of the commission because they are equating themselves with the assistant directors of special management organisations. Finally, what is very important is that a high level of urgency is foreseen in the execution of public procurement procedures, as a decision must be made within a period of not more than 15 days, and only in exceptional cases 25 days. This reduces the decision-making period, must be decided by tender, and the process of public procurement is accelerated, which has been one of the biggest problems so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2629	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want the word, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please, MP Milan Markovic, authorised representative of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2630	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, as regards the proposed agenda that we adopted today, except for something we'll probably talk about, and that's another humiliation of the National Assembly that's being reviewed in the return of the Excise Act, even though we've spoken about the law ten days ago, I can express my satisfaction with the proposed agenda, because most of the laws you've proposed are laws that the previous government has come up with. It's good, it talks about you, but it also speaks about the quality of the work of the previous government and the quality of these proposals. The position of the DS Parliament Club will be constructive, as it has been so far. We'll vote for some of these bill proposals. But we believe that in some of these draft laws, such as the law on insurance where there were two drafts, this is practically the third draft, and he found himself in front of the National Assembly, making certain changes that we cannot support. Therefore, we intervened with the amendments, and our view to the proposed laws will depend on the parliamentary majority's position in relation to the amendments we have proposed. I'm going to say right now what our principled position on these bill proposals is. As for the draft law on the national housing insurance corporation, it is a bill that has been ready for two years; our parliamentary club is behind this bill, especially as some members of our parliamentary club have prepared this bill. We will support this bill, with the view that there are certain restrictions. First, we think that, with all due respect, the effects of this law will not be felt for a long time. We're not sure that the interest rates and the price of these loans are going to go down any time soon, and we think there's another law missing here, and that's mortgage law, so this law can live. It is good that this law is found in our legal order, in our positive legislation, but putting it on the agenda according to an emergency procedure, especially since this law, I think it is clear to you, too, will not be able to apply it immediately, we can still assess it as part of a pre-election campaign; it is not good, because a whole set of laws would certainly be better prepared if we were to deal with it in the interests of the citizens, not to take account of our political interests. It would be good if the government, in a way, had prescribed the recipe applied by the Belgrade City Assembly, or the Executive Board of the Belgrade City Assembly, especially because I know that the president of the city government is Mr Bogdanovic, as well as everyone else involved in the project, that is the project of thousands of apartments, certainly ready, willing and would be very pleased to invite them and share those experiences with them. As far as the proposal for a law on insurance and the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia is concerned, our position will depend on your attitude towards our amendments, and as regards the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Market of Papers and other financial instruments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, the DS Parliament Club will support these two draft laws. These are also draft laws prepared by the previous government, and the current government has made some changes. On the other hand, we intervened with some amendments, but we think it is very important that this continuity of economic policy, which was initiated in the previous period, continues. It is likely that all MPs express their satisfaction over such a way of working and especially because of an agreement with the IMF, which we hope will be as it is presented to us. I wished you luck before you left, when we talked about the budget, but I will remind you that at the time I told you that you would have to negotiate further with the IMF because of our deficit of 46 billion dinars. Well, that's not the point, it's a good thing you came back with good news. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, we are particularly pleased that this government has remained with this standard introduced by the previous government, or the previous ruling majority, to make public procurement a standard in business, to become something that will never be deleted from our legal order again. That's one philosophy, one function we've introduced. I will remind you that through this law we have introduced the protection of domestic production, i.e. domestic offers, which you are further working on and therefore you will have our support for this law, with a few amendments. Now I'm going to talk about what we less like in this set of bill. It's the insurance law. Although, practically, more than 80% of the members of the bill were prescribed from the draft law of the previous government, you have made some changes that we do not consider to be good. We have submitted a number of amendments in order for this law to still comply with the standards of the world that we strive for and with the standards necessary for the quality functioning of the insurance system. The second part of our amendments has been submitted with the aim of somehow providing a better position for domestic entities dealing with insurance matters. I'll make two basic remarks here. The first objection concerns surveillance matters. I do not agree with Mr. Minister's interpretation of the type of supervision in the countries of the European Union. I'll do a different interpretation. So I think there are three kinds of state surveillance. The first kind of surveillance is the one mentioned by Mr. Minister. It's a supervision carried out through the finance ministry. The Ministry of Finance forms an appropriate service, and in this service there are relevant experts from areas of importance for insurance operations; in some countries, such as France and Belgium, this is slightly enriched by the formation of a special committee of independent experts that verifies decisions of greater importance. We agree not to apply this system to us. The other kind of surveillance is one that the Democratic Party MPs' club advocates. This is the kind of supervision that was provided for in the draft of this law adopted by our government, and this type of supervision implies that the supervisory tasks are performed by an independent body that corresponds to the government for its work. This body can be called differently, it can be an agency, it can be a directorate (so called in Croatia), it can be a bureau. It is in the performance of its affairs independently and independently, and the tasks it performs and the workaround have been established by law. This body should have its own statute. The Statute determines the organisation, mode of work, and what is particularly important determines the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the person representing the managing authority in that body. The government appoints the organs of that body, agency or bureau, no matter what we call it, and to a greater or smaller extent, depending on the specific state, directly controls the work of that body. This kind of surveillance exists in many countries, especially in those countries that are similar to us, because they are countries that are in transition. For some of them, this transition is a success, an obvious example is Slovenia. So, this system exists in Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary, but also in some other European countries, and we think that this system is optimal and perhaps the only possible position for our society. One thing's for sure, that system's been checked and it doesn't carry any risks. The possible arguments that the formation of such a system, or service that would count a certain number of people, some significant expenditure for our budget, simply do not stand, because in this case, if there is a problem, there is a greater gift than the measure, that is, the damage is multiple and in these cases simply should not be risked because of populist views on some savings in the budget. The third system, that's definitely where we disagree, is not a system for the central bank to monitor. The third system is actually one higher level of the second system, one executed system, where there is also an independent body, but that independent body performs a little higher function. Namely, it controls all banking transactions and insurance jobs. This exists in countries and financial markets which we, unfortunately, can only imagine now, so that they are not the subject, and in that sense I do not agree with the way the minister has exposed the existence of the system in parallel practice. Normally, the minister was doing it in an effort to accept the system he was proposing. (President: Are you using for the next ten minutes? Yes. Since I've brought out these three existing sights of surveillance, I'll tell you right now what our objection is. It is our observation that this law foresees something that we believe is not known in parallel practice - if nothing else, it is not known as successful or unknown in countries similar to ours - which is that the central bank controls. Given the two plans so far, given what I have stated, given the practice of countries that look like our country, whose situation in this segment is identical or similar to our situation, there is doubt why our government is so drastically deviating from something that we all expected. The evidence for a drastic deviation is that no one has ever thought to make other amendments to internal legislation that would make one such proposal compatible with other regulations. So, such a relationship and such a surprising twist of the government, or the promoter, unfortunately raises doubts and what we said when we talked about the Ministry Act, it would be very bad if this country were run by a system of resistors or resources belonging to certain political parties. Unfortunately, if we look at the situation in which we are now and the way this segment is envisaged which is very perspective and very important, we will see that someone might say that this is simply done, this new, unseen solution applies only to be found under the auspices of a political party. Of course, I believe that's not the case, or I hope that's not the case. I think this is one specific etatization of this sector. I can say, a little perfidious or hypocritical, that Vlasi can't figure out, that we don't see it, but this is ethics, is putting under control of this sector in one way that isn't suitable for countries that we seek and European flows in which we want to engage. If someone recommended this recipe to us, it would be good to know who recommended it, and if he hadn't applied it first, he'd have to take the risk first, and then, if it's worth it, we'd have to try. We have recipes that have succeeded and we suggest that we apply successful recipes. The proposed solution is controversial from the aspect of internal legislation and therefore we have as the third item of the agenda of the amendment and addition of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. So, Articles 4, 5 and 6 of the law clearly state what the functions of the system are, what are the functions of the National Bank of Serbia. A 54th member talking about the control function of the National Bank of Serbia, and never to anyone who passed the law and suggested it had not occurred to put control there now, or control over insurance companies. It only heightens the suspicion that I was just talking about and tells about how much this is actually an experiment and something new in our legal system. This solution is the opposite of the Ministry Act. We argued a lot here when we talked about the Ministry Act. In fact, the members of this law are de facto exempted from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance in the affairs of the State Administration relating to the control of this segment. This is explicitly stated as the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The moment that this, along with logistics, is foreseen by this law, moves to the National Bank of Serbia more than obvious that, contrary to the Ministry Act, one significant jurisdiction from this ministry is exempt and transferred to the National Bank of Serbia. Speaking of the problems of the positive regulations, the minister mentioned earlier that in principle the system laid down by the Company Act does not change. I think it's a good thing that this system doesn't change, although given some experience, we can talk about other segments, let's say a special law on privatization of insurance companies. But you say the system doesn't change. Then it is not clear to me why you put into the law a provision of Article 244 relating to government powers to take certain measures, to take practical management functions in insurance companies operating in state and social capital, although a member of the 400a Company Act provides for that possibility, but only in cases where the privatisation process has begun and when it is found that the managing authorities in that company miss out on operations or in certain acts hindering or preventing the privatisation process. I don't know what this is about. Let the intention behind it stand. If it wasn't for intent, it would simply not have stood, because subsidiarity is always subject to the Company Act, and amendments to the law that is otherwise the result of the Privatisation Act. In any case, there remains a serious observation regarding surveillance. This kind of conceived surveillance is why we can't support the bill. We suggest a better, less risky solution, checked in situations identical to what we are now. It's one set of amendments. Please accept it; if you accept it, we will be happy to support your bill. The second observation refers to specialisation, so property and life or life insurance and non-life insurance, is not an important termology. Namely, here's the thing. So this is all the consequence of the 1979 European Economic Community Directive. It is already said in the preamble to this Directive that separation to life insurance and non-life insurance will not apply to insurance organisations already registered and already carried out, traditionally and stable, jobs and life insurance under certain conditions, which mainly concern the conduct of separate bookkeeping and the protection of insurance companies and of one and other types of insurance. So those who made that preamble in 1979, or that directive, too, had in mind that the obligation imposed on insurance organisations, to deal with either one or another insurance, expensive and risky and that it would certainly expose the entities to certain experiences that they might also be fatal to. As this went further in some laws, such as in Slovenia -- they made one exception in the law, they consider "Triglav" to be their national house and they said it was all so, specialisation must be carried out, but it does not refer to "Triglav". So people take care of their domestic resources, and the reason for that is purely practical and economical. In fact, it's about a very important resource, a very important and huge market, a big source of money, a big source of business just doing life insurance. Life insurance business in our country hasn't been developed. Our insurance companies, as they are, have failed to enter the market and put that great potential into operation and simply earn money. If we impose on our insurance organisations to carry out specializations within a relatively short period of time, i.e. until 2005 alone, i.e. separating their performance, this will be a major challenge for them, and those domestic insurance companies who decide to go to the life insurance market in the competition will be disappointing and inferior to the side of the offer, compared to foreign companies. There's something we need to do about it. Our proposal from the amendment is to extend that deadline to at least 2007, so that our insurance companies, our insurance entities, or insurance companies, are given the opportunity to prepare as much as possible for this competition, because at the very least they will be cleaned up, they will not be anywhere in this very large and significant market. These are the basic remarks of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary club. We're willing to vote for most of these laws, but we're asking you for an understanding and a reasonable relationship with what we've stated. We suggest that you accept our amendments, because we will surely come together to a much better solution, and I think that we will all be satisfied and that we will create one basis for the better progress of our society in the segments that we are trying to regulate today with this set of laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2631	The word is by MP Igor Mirovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, first of all, we need to clarify why the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly has not adopted the draft law on the national housing loan corporation. I think the president or some authorised representative of the Committee would be obliged to inform us about this, because the debate has already begun, and most MPs have not attended the Committee's meetings and does not know what the motives and reasons were for the Committee not to accept the draft law on the national housing insurance corporation. The minister has come out, but the echo of these words will surely come to him. The Serbian Radical Party will not support any draft law in this set of laws, which are brought to the National Assembly by an urgent procedure, which is very important, specialized areas in the economy of a country, and I would like to say immediately at the beginning as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The big promises made in that revolutionary enthusiasm in 2000 are also followed by this proposal for a law on national corporation. Today, the minister said the bill will speed up the growth of certain industries, especially in the construction industry, which is the industry that monitors construction facilities. In his words, and of course this law cannot be initiated, it could also lead to an increase in revenue in the budget, if these industries get a swing. It is obvious that the finance minister, and this is also the manner of the entire G17 plus parliamentary group, has not returned to the real economy, is still on the trail of big promises. Remember those six-billion-dollar promises that will arrive immediately after the revolutionary coup in 2000; to make things worse, it seems that some of that money has arrived, but it has been spent in some secret channels, it has disappeared untraceable, so that may be the reason for some additional investigations, at least for the full disclosure of the economic policy led by G17 plus, of course with the main element, even in the public part of the conduct of that policy, Minister Mladjan Dinkic. The law, in fact, intends in its essence to achieve a kind of security of super-guarantee for banks, those banks that will provide housing loans, which will already be covered by a mortgage, but this is not enough for banks, because the possibility of carrying out liabilities, i.e. mortgage payments, is now very narrowed down, often takes a long time, and mortgages are extremely unrealistic, suspiciously inscribed etc. And the banks are now trying to provide some kind of super-guarantee through the national corporation law. It's not the key to solving the problem that those citizens who want to get to the apartment and provide credit to the bank will be able to provide the loan. So two are open questions. One question is interest on housing loans. The minister is telling the truth and last night, in public representation of the law, he said that today, at this point during the debate in the National Assembly, the interest on housing loans at an annual level is about 9%, which is absolutely untrue. He even says that the introduction of this type of housing super-guarantee will allow for a drop in interest, which is also false, because one has nothing to do with the other, and that is a question that the finance ministry and the majority that appear to support this law today in Serbia cannot solve. This is, of course, a matter relating to the budget, to the unreal budget, to the increase in excise duties, to the increase in electricity prices, to the increase in prices of those goods that generally fill Serbia's budget; therefore, the increase in prices, inflation growth and of course, the reaction of banks and bankers who have to hold large interest, at least by a few percent higher than inflation, for the simple reason to ensure the value of their capital, that capital on the banking market. The second question the finance minister does not answer is how to get a housing loan without a mortgage. In the largest number of countries where there is a more developed credit market, of course much more developed than in our country, it is possible that housing credit can be obtained without a mortgage. After all, if we have in our country today selling other goods without mortgage security, let's say cars, then why doesn't the finance minister propose a system that would allow apartments, as a kind of goods, to be sold in one rational system, without the mortgage that is necessary to provide credit in this case. Third, the finance minister in a socio-nationalist manner says the law will provide additional pressure, he says, on local authorities to register housing facilities. So, he's not talking about a new mortgage law, which should commit, in a more perfect and rational, a more serious way, all bodies, especially local self-government authorities, to address the issue of those non-recorded housing facilities in the short term. In this way, it will expand the base of users who will be able to look for credit with business banks. No, he's not talking about it. He appealed to the awareness of leaders in local self-government, which is an amazing socialist manner and cannot fit into a liberal vision that, even on paper, Minister Dinkic represents. So, the law is not good, it's not good enough, it won't lead to an increase in the number of housing users, to the expansion of those branches that are directly related to the construction of apartments and that are accompanied by the housing market, the construction of apartments (building, construction industry, building materials, etc.).) so that the arguments presented by Minister Dinkic are simply not true for a moment and cannot motivate the SRS parliamentary group to support the draft law on the national housing insurance corporation. Therefore, there will be no lower interest on housing loans, nor will housing loans be made easier by procedure, nor will a large number of citizens be able to really count on one day being a beneficiary of favourable housing loans. In this sense, the law does not make it any easier for citizens, except for part of those business banks that will use super-guarantee in terms of this insurance fund, which again has a basic stake in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The second question I want to speak on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group is the insurance law issue. And, again, of course, a few notorious lies, which is startling to me. The Minister of Finance and in the preparation of the text of the law, in the light of the law, is today publicly speaking to the National Assembly about the law on insurance being in line with the European Union directive, and in some ways deceives the MPs of the National Assembly. I'd like to raise a few issues, disputed points in the law itself. The first question is supervision of the work of insurance organisations. I must say that the solution by which the National Bank of Serbia, for reasons only known to Minister Dinkic or perhaps the G17 Plus parliamentary group, becomes this law-based supervisory authority over the work of insurance houses, is not the solution known in the practice of developed countries. More pedantic analysts of the bill's proposal have come up with data that only four countries in the world have been affected by a national bank in the process of overseeing the activity of insurance. So Minister Dinkic deceived us. He said it was a solution already applied to the practice of European Union countries, which is not true, and said it was a solution already implemented in the practice of developed countries of the world, outside the circle of the European Union countries, which is also not true. He probably calculated that no one among the MPs would analyse the insurance law in detail, and that in a thunderous manner, reforms, changes, the introduction of order into insurance, would be able to pass at a small door in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Excuse me, are you using for the next 10 minutes? Yes. But it's obvious he won't be able to. Two possible solutions, which are applied in practice to the European Union countries. The first solution is for the Ministry of Finance, such as in France and Belgium, to oversee the work of insurance companies, and the second is to form a special insurance control agency, which would carry out the work, and such a solution has indeed already been implemented in several European Union countries. The second question is the simultaneous performance of life insurance and non-life insurance. It is true that the European Union Directive and the practice in most European Union countries implies a mandatory distinction between life insurance and non-life insurance companies. But it is also true that for those insurance companies that have a long tradition and which already perform both life insurance and non-life insurance, there is no obligation to distinguish them. Why does the Minister of Finance propose this today? Because, above all, it wants to reduce the value of the assets and the sum of portfolios of insurance companies by making those insurance companies that have a great tradition have to separate the jobs of life insurance and non-life insurance, so special companies will form, special legal entities; this will reduce the value of the assets of the insurance companies that are large today. It is certain, just as we are discussing this, that MPs should know that it is a sum of more than 500m euros in assets, portfolios, securities of values owned by insurance companies, etc. Simply, this imperative requirement for separation of life insurance and non-life insurance is not in the interest of domestic insurance companies, but only in the interest of foreign insurance companies, which they want, of course, is their natural interest, to buy domestic insurance houses at a lower cost and to profit from the whole job. Minister Dinkic must protect domestic insurance houses and domestic insurance companies from such a type, I would say, business aggressions by foreign insurance companies. Instead, he stands by foreign insurance companies and allows them to buy our insurance houses cheaply at a lower price, through the element of mandatory separation of life insurance and non-life insurance. And, of course, we're coming to a crucial point in the insurance bill's proposal, and that's not to be missed, and that's the issue of privatising insurance houses. This whole story is imagined, of course, and the law is a hindrance to the whole story, that insurance companies are being sold as soon as possible. The Prime Minister or Prime Minister, the government that lasted until a month or two ago, Mr. Zivkovic, remembers (and it is no wonder that DS supports the proposals of these laws to the greatest extent), spoke of the government's priorities, the former regime's government. First, the sale of Mobtel, second, the sale of DDOR, "Dunava" etc. Also today, the proposal for this law in Article 243 says - the process of privatising social capital in insurance companies, in addition to the entities set out in the rules governing privatisation, can be initiated by the Ministry of Finance. The goal, therefore, is for the finance minister to be some sort of point around which offers will be collected in the privatisation tender for insurance houses. The goal is to buy out insurance houses and the law is the best basis for such a sale. That's why we can't uphold this law. Next, the question of the National Bank Act. I hope that this law will not be discussed if you adopt the amendment that I have proposed; it is in one way that is consistent with these principles that rule in the countries of the European Union talking about the need for the Ministry of Finance to supervise this activity through the Security Supervisory Authority. Then we won't even have to change the National Bank Act, because the National Bank, by the nature of its work, can't control the work that's connected to the insurance. It's completely incompatible, and anyone who's finished at least high school knows that the People's Bank has no contact with the insurance houses and that it's a kind of exhibition of the finance minister, his parliamentary group and the quasiexperates in it. The law on public procurement, famous tenders, that's the question we have to react to. In the first wave, when the Law on Public Procurement was brought to the National Assembly, the public thought that the law would limit or curb the abuse of large-scale procurement, especially in public systems, in procurement in those state bodies which annually allocate large sums for public procurement. That expectation was correct. What happened in practice? Almost every tender has been set up and almost every tender doesn't win anyone with a cheaper offer. What kind of tender is that, then? It's an incredible abuse. To this question, the proposal for this law on public procurement does not provide an answer; the issue of price, as a basic and main factor in assessing bids in the process of collecting and organising tenders, throughout the process which organises the law on public procurement and the second issue, the issue of the advantages of domestic producers. We had an interesting case of "Belgrade Arena" equipment, a large hall, when one domestic company for technical, procedural reasons, was a domestic producer, lost a job left to a foreign company, which, of course, is not limited enough in the existing Public Procurement Act. The SRS parliamentary group considers that these two factors must necessarily be incorporated into the law and that they cannot be the fruit of some type of improvisation of tender commissions or influencing certain specific interests, but must be a strictly regulated area that will give priority to those who have the most favourable offer and those who are domestic equipment manufacturers who can, of course, be leveled by quality and other features with equipment offered from abroad. Those two parts aren't clear enough. Of course, because of these shortcomings in the draft law on the national housing insurance company, the insurance law proposal, the National Bank Bill, which is completely pointless, because I am convinced that most MPs will not allow the National Bank to intervene in the process of control and supervision of the work of the insurance companies, and in the proposal for a law on public procurement, the SRS will not vote for these laws. When amendments come on the agenda, I will be free to defend my amendments, of course, especially about privatising insurance houses, because I feel it is necessary to pass a special law on privatising insurance houses and insurance companies and not allow the Minister of Finance to be the organiser of the sale of our insurance companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2633	In front of the Finance Committee, MP Nenad Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2634	We agreed yesterday and the decision is to report to be Mr. Štimac or Mr. Obradovic, I don't know anymore, but it doesn't matter. Normally, he decided if he would. I must repeat, as chairman of the Committee, I will never defend the law if I am abstention or against it. That's not right. A reporter should be the one for the law. I don't think the SRS gentleman was deliberately explaining this variant of "Belgrade Arena". Namely, the title was clear, it's typical of our press: "Americans beat the U.S." But the Americans did not beat the Uzicians, the Italians beat them, as seats are not produced in Uzica. The Unity company, which took part, was just a contractor. Otherwise, the seats were Italian. That's not a good example of what you said. There are other examples that can be much better. It wasn't about what the title suggested. When you read the article, in fact, you can see that both the seats in question are foreign, because simply, this type of seat is not produced in the country of Serbia. I felt it was appropriate to say it anyway, because it was annoying to me, too, but what to do, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2635	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you are, MP Ivica Dacic, MP of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2636	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since there are several points of the agenda that, each for itself, are extremely significant, I would like to explain in a few minutes the views of the SPS regarding a few key things, as it is about laws that may not be related to each other. The first is the draft law on the national housing insurance corporation. As you know, housing is on a very low level. Only a few thousand apartments are built every year. Families in Serbia need housing. Also, as you know and as we have shown in the previous period, it is possible to build 10,000 apartments in Serbia annually. It is very important that this law is put on the agenda, because it is obvious that young people, and rich in our country and people already in the middle of the year, have the need to resolve the housing issue. Given the degree of development of our country, it is impossible for the housing issue to be resolved differently because there is no more housing assignments, as it was at the time of socialism. Also, there is no sufficient source of income for citizens to buy apartments themselves and from their own sources. That's why this idea is good. It is necessary to create such macroeconomic conditions and such a banking system and, of course, a system of ensuring these loans that will allow people to solve the housing problem. That's why we think this idea is good, with the shortcomings this law has. We believe it is necessary to obtain more mass approval of housing loans. Unfortunately, today, conditions are such that even after the adoption of this bank law, it will be difficult for them to give more housing loans. In particular, it will be difficult for them to go to long-term loans, especially if a very clear system of control of the implementation of the obligations that exist on the basis of these loans is not applied. Tenm euros as an initial, founding capital is certainly a small amount of funds so that a large number of families can get housing loans. Also, the limiting factor is certainly the fact that monthly war cannot exceed 60% of household income. When all of this is collected, based on this data that we have received, around 50,000 households in Serbia are able to pay, and has this kind of living need. So this law and the establishment of this national corporation won't solve a quick housing problem, but for us, two other things are crucial. We think it is very important that this law goes along with a series of accompanying laws that would regulate other areas, such as the mortgage law, and that it should, which may also be interesting, form a single national mortgage corporation. Secondly, conditions must be created, and this probably belongs to the Ministry of Capital Investments, to launch housing in our country, because without the start of construction companies that can build apartments can't be properly solved in this way even the issue of housing loans, i.e. the purchase of apartments. The second law is a law on insurance. Of course, we support the idea of tightening the conditions for the establishment of insurance houses, we support and increase the censorship, because there are a large number of problems with citizens, who simply cannot charge their insurance from various houses dealing with it. It's only today that it's mandatory to secure the car. You can't register a car unless you pay for insurance. Also, our largest insurance houses have shown in the compensation of the damage they were to pay for the demotion that took place on 5 October, in RTS, the Federal Assembly and the SPS, that there is simply no guarantee. He says it's a revolution. How is someone going to trust the insurance company tomorrow if they know they can't charge and why would someone secure their property when they can't collect it from the house they're dealing with tomorrow? So it's good to keep track of business. We have had objections regarding supervision, we have submitted some amendments, as well as some other political parties. Of course there may be different examples -- whether it will be done by the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, or the National Bank, or by an independent agency, it is a matter of the government's decision to make. World practice shows, however, that this example decided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Finance, is not exactly the most massive in the world, is applied in a small number of countries and, I would say, in rather undeveloped countries which certainly cannot be an example of Serbia when it comes to the adoption of such an important legal solution. We also believe that when life insurance and non-life insurance business is divided, it is very important that some world experience allows certain insurance houses that have done these jobs before to continue. What may be very important, and perhaps someone else's not, is the issue of privatizing these insurance houses. In the era of general privatisation, as has been said in the past, it may seem tempting and beautiful, but we can quickly get into the situation of Hungary today, which has no newspaper, in which there is no house for insurance in domestic, Hungarian property. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, should take care of it if it still has the authority in this area, because it is possible that, through the privatisation of two of our large insurance companies, DDOR and Danube, more than 500m euros can be cast into foreign hands. In that sense, he should be very careful. In the end, the Public Procurement Act. I am pleased to say on behalf of the SPS that what the SPS said in the debate on the Law on Public Procurement, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are now proposing. What was our intensity? Our intensities were that of domestic bidders or... It's hard to tell now what the domestic bidder means, whether it's domestic production or domestic goods. There are, as you know, differences and many machinations. At the time, we said that it was not good that there was no preferential position in the Law of Public Procurement, that is, a more favourable position for domestic providers performing works, providing certain services or offering certain goods that are wholly domestic. We then proposed this solution that was rejected and I think this is a good proposal which will, however, put domestic bidders (I would not say more favourably) in a more equal position than those offering foreign products. Also, it is very important that the commission that controls this business regularly does its job. I would remind the government, it seems to me that in the past, the commission has not met once and has not resolved the objections that have come from the side. One more thing, I think it should be kept in mind when a price adjustment can be made officially of 25%; manipulations have been observed to approve a one-price job, and to subsequently increase the price by 25%, in fact, to manipulate the entire Public Procurement Act. Anyway, we've submitted amendments, given everything we've talked about. If such proposals are accepted in the debate, the SPS in principle supports the need to pass these laws even though there are objections to them. At the end of this debate, as it is more laws, when amendments come to the agenda, we will measure what is in the interest of Serbia getting, what law and how we will apply these laws. It is necessary that these laws are passed, but it is essential that we know what the laws are and what legal solutions they offer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2637	Thank you. I'm setting a break. The work continues at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the joint principled search on the Bill on National Credit Insurance Corporation, the Proposal for a Insurance Law, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Market of Securities of Values and other Financial Instruments and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. Please begin by establishing a quorum for work. I ask the Members of Parliament to put in their MPs' cards. Thank you. I find that the electronic system shows that 97 MPs are present in the O.R. I ask all MPs that when they buy bread in the morning they do not stop by before 10.00 in the supermarket, because it is possible to stand by or sit across the street and wait for employees to come, since the question is whether they are comfortable with working hours. The same applies to all MPs. It does not refer to the opposition, the opposition is not obliged to provide quorum. Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents answering for a word? No, I don't. ) In the order of the registered speakers, Zarko Obradović is the first to prepare for Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2639	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, today we are discussing a set of laws, five laws are within the framework of a single debate. On behalf of the SPS, I'm only going to say a few views on two laws -- a bill on the national housing insurance corporation and a proposal for a law on insurance. It is undeniable that Serbia needs a new housing policy. The time when people were able to get an apartment, when they had the right to an apartment, now it belongs to the past and it is necessary to look for new ways for Serbia to allow its citizens in a relatively easy way, because nothing is easy, to reach the roof over their heads. The situation in the apartment is such that very few apartments are built, there are no apartments on the market, the price is high, construction companies do not work enough, citizens are not in a position to buy these apartments because their payload is very modest. This is what I am saying in the context of the draft law on the national housing insurance corporation; this represents a small, initial modest step in the formation of this national housing strategy. I say - small and modest, because essentially by applying this law we will not reach what every citizen of the Republic of Serbia is aiming to get a cheap and long-term loan. This corporation will primarily serve as a guarantee to banks that lend loans, which are primarily foreign banks, because they acquire money on the money market in their countries at lower interest rates and place it here at a higher rate. Those people who are users of housing loans regularly pay off their liabilities, because objectively that number is very small. We heard the data, it's only 50,000 people who have the ability to repay housing loans. So I said this is a small, modest step, which if not followed by other laws will objectively have no concrete effect. When I tell other laws, it is necessary to pass a mortgage law, a mortgage law of value, a law on guaranteeing liability in mortgage housing credit, a law on housing-saving associations, then, to make changes and additions to tax laws, the Law on housing, the Law on Real Estates, the Law on legalisation of residential buildings and other laws. Thus, it is necessary for the state to establish a single national strategy for a comprehensive housing policy system, and in this context mortgage housing lending. I'm saying this because I think it would be more appropriate for this law, at least according to what is in its contents and what should be achieved as the objective of realising this law, to have a national mortgage credit corporation. It's about the mortgage market, mortgages, and the law is about one dimension of the insurance of residential loans. When you look at all this, I think it would be a more appropriate second term, and compared to that second name and the content of jobs that would be covered by this law. We've heard from the promoter that he calls for other people's experiences. I have to say, for example, that in America there is a residential mortgage corporation and according to the data that exist, which is public, that corporation is practically the strongest financial institution in America, and therefore in the world; the capital that owns is four times the strongest bank. The total sum of the mortgage housing loan owned by the US corporation by 2010 is set to be $14 trillion. Otherwise, this corporation was founded by the state in 1938, and it serves to secure liquidity and stability on the market by buying different types of loans. I'm saying this because this law is only one side of that housing policy. We think it would be a more appropriate term - a national mortgage corporation, and that, of course, the content of the law should change in certain things, but we can accept this step as something that is the beginning. Otherwise, if there isn't another, we won't achieve that essential goal. Serbia needs a comprehensive mortgage housing system that will launch essentially all branches of the economy, as there is no branch of the economy, except tobacco and film, which are not included and which are not accompanying, related to the law. We have proposed certain amendments and I will not explain them now. We think this law can be absolutely improved. When it comes to the insurance law, I'd like to mention a few things. As for the supervision of insurance affairs, we heard that the National Bank of Serbia is an institution that should deal with surveillance issues and that is one of the solutions that apply in the world. It is one of the solutions and it is the least applicable solution, it exists in the smallest number of countries. We don't see any reason why an insurance agency couldn't be established. I'm not saying this by chance, because if these jobs have been in the Ministry of Finance so far, using simple logic, the separation of these jobs from the Ministry and the transfer to the National Bank is causing additional costs to be incurred and the insurance control agency would be formed. If we are already using some of the world’s experiences, then we should use the experiences that exist in the world in that area. As for privatisation, we from the Socialist Party of Serbia think there should be one national corporation, a large, strong one, where the state would have majority capital. There are two large insurance companies in Serbia -- "Dunav" and DDOR Novi Sad. They are said to carry out 98% of the total insurance business and that their privatisation can also cause a major capital outflow, of course in the case of whoever becomes the owner. We think that the state should seriously consider this issue and reach again for the experiences of the countries in the environment. For example, Triglav in Slovenia is a national corporation in which the state has majority ownership. I'd like to say something about societies dealing with life insurance and life insurance. We have proposed by amendment that companies that have previously done this work continue to carry out it, and that those insurance companies that are formed after the adoption of this law can only deal with one or the other, and there is a very precise schedule of obligations, a schedule of jobs. I'd like to draw your attention to one more question, where retroactiveness is introduced on a small door through this proposal for insurance laws. In fact, we don't mind that the censorship for the establishment of insurance companies is high and these strict conditions aren't in themselves a problem, because whoever really wants to deal with insurance matters needs to meet the conditions, but I have to mention that little retroactivity. Namely, in Article 39, the application for the authorisation to carry out insurance and reinsurance operations - among other things - and for shareholders, i.e. legal persons qualified are scheduled to submit a financial report, with the opinion of the authorised auditor for the last three years. This in itself would not be disputed if those same legal entities had not already received adequate certificates from the state for what they possess, that is the value of the action; first of all they had received from the Federal Securities Commission, received from the court, received from the Ministry of Finance and the question arises why the property of those legal entities is again determined. I'm referring to this in the context of a situation we've had recently, that for people who have a certain property of the state she didn't want to determine the origin of that property. She only set for them until March 30th; whoever pays the property tax, he is a taxpayer who fulfils all the conditions. We don't see why this way in a small door would introduce retroactivity and slow down the capital of the people who have already done it again. There is much more, but I will leave time for my fellow MPs, and I will probably speak in another announcement on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2640	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vladan Vukicevic be prepared. Two notifications: a session of the Legislative Committee will be held today, on 5 May 2004, at 17.45 p.m. in Hall I on the ground floor. The session of the Committee on Culture, scheduled for tomorrow at 1400 hours, has been moved to Friday at 1400 hours, because tomorrow will not work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2641	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, while a man listens to Mr. Minister explain these laws, he wonders if it's really possible in this country. However, when it enters into the essence of the bill, it is actually one of the most common political demagogy and one's beautiful desires, especially when it comes to asking the bill on the national housing insurance corporation. Apparently, the law should improve resolving Serbian citizens' housing issues. However, what does this law accomplish? Just one thing, that banks that are still holders of housing loans have the state's guarantee that the loan will be returned and more allegedly promises to be lower interest rates. The bank's risk of lending is reportedly reduced, so it will affect the lower interest rate. I honestly think it's one simple lie, because it's impossible. The national corporation itself is, at least according to the proposal of this law, conceived as a state corporation in which the majority owner of the state is, at first, the founder, and later needs to be transformed into a company that will function. If the intention is to function as a stock company, it is therefore understood that such a corporation will also have its original incomes that will not be from the Republic of Serbia's budget. These original revenues will be asked by the bank so the bank can receive a loan guarantee, which some Serbian citizen took to resolve his housing issue. It will also affect the bank's interest policy, because now on the one hand it has a lower risk of non-payment of loans, and on the other hand it has the costs to secure the guarantee it needs to give to the national corporation. Mr. Minister said the mortgage to be given to banks will be accepted exclusively as a mortgage of the facility, whether a residential, individual building, whether an apartment in a residential building, which is bought for purpose or for which a dedicated loan is taken to resolve the housing issue. However, in the whole of this law I have not noticed that it is written and certainly does not say that it is the subject of a loan and the subject of a mortgage and that it is a condition on which a guarantee can be obtained. This is left to the Rules of Procedure which are a sublegal act and which the board of directors and the supervisory board of corporations can change how they like it, i.e. the interest of someone representing that national corporation and that board of directors. In best terms, such a legislative proposal does not have any future and perspective, because it is exclusively proposed and adopted for political purposes, most likely because of the presidential election campaign being conducted. In one more part of the law, the law remains inconclusive, at least when it comes to Article 9. It's a bill of law. Article 9(2) reads: "The total nominal amount of corporate liabilities arising from the performance of the corporation's activities under Article 1(1) may be up to 16 times the amount of corporate capital". Item 3: "The total nominal amount of corporate liabilities arising from the carrying out of the corporate activity referred to in Article 1, according to the individual business bank and the individual legal person, will be determined by the corporate business rules. "The government can, on a reasoned proposal from the corporate board of directors and supervisory board, change that the amount can be greater than 16 times, and thus the purpose of the existence of Articles 9 and 2, 3 and 4. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, only one new position 6a is added. under which the National Bank has the right to issue and withdraw licences, i.e. the powers to carry out the activities of the insurance undertaking, to exercise control over the performance of that activity and to carry out other tasks in accordance with the law governing the insurance. This is the proposal for insurance companies to be controlled by the National Bank. We are all aware of how it was while the governor of the National Bank was Mladjan Dinkic and while he was in control of business banks, that I am not talking about how certain business banks that were in social or state-owned property were, call whatever you want, were shut down because of the interest of some other private banks. It always kind of coincided with the transition of Western currencies to the euro, with the crossing of payment traffic from the Office for Accounting and Payment to Business Banks, where suddenly a large vacuum was created on the market and these private banks had an exceptional impact on a vacuum created by the closure of major state banks. Given that Mr. Minister said in explaining these laws that banks were one of the factors that provided the bill, the question arises whether the minister is working in the interests of Serbian citizens or is simply an extended arm of the financial-banking lobby. I'd like another seven minutes, how much time do I have... I've only managed to explain two laws, five of which you suggested and merged in a single debate. I don't mind that you, gentlemen MPs, are in a hurry, but I think the debate on five laws at one point in the agenda is too much. I don't know the reasons and your motives, but I can tell you that the next time you make such proposals to unify the debate, you have to imagine that the MPs of the SRS can come out on any amendment. Any MP can come out, so uniting these discussions won't be worth much to you. Because it seems to be the only way for this ruling majority, which continues the policy of the previous ruling majority, to learn how democracy is grown.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2642	The People's MP Vladan Vukicevic has the word, followed by MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is normal for the opposition to criticise the government and that is the main task of the opposition. I am one of the MPs who is willing to always accept any well-intentioned criticism, including criticism of opposition MPs, if something that is really good is said and can in some way improve some law that is before us. Of course, from this entire set of laws, I will refer only to the insurance bill proposal, but before I say anything about the proposal itself, I would like to perhaps in some few sentences to remind all of you, including those who have listened to the law that we have had in the past 14 years and whether we have had it at all, what was it like in practice and how this law was implemented. Have we had a good law in the last 14 years, did we have good insurance? I believe that none of you here can say that we've had a good one, but we have to accept the fact that we've had an awful bad insurance law and that insurance in the past 14 years has been a terrible thing. Of course, this was most reflected through that part of the Law relating to vehicle insurance, i.e. Car accident insurance. In the past 14 years, and especially in the last 8 years, we've had those insurance forms. We had a policy pro-forms policy, and we knew that we could never charge that damage with that policy. Simply, only some legal form was met, and the real, essential enforceability of the law at the time of the damage was not there. For these reasons, there are too many people in courts today who want to collect their damages through the court on the basis of car responsibility, and these disputes are being conducted for about five or six years. I would like to say that the proposal for a law on insurance on the agenda today is an extremely high-quality law, which, at the very end of the line, envisioned all the details and details and which should in practice produce good results. Of course, as an MP of the governing structure, I want to be well-intentioned to the members of the government on Article 28, which is the height of the share of the underlying capital, because I consider this mandatory censorship to be extremely high. I think that such a high censorship will in some way devalue this law in the near future, by ultimately enabling a monopoly only to those insurance companies that have a lot of money and thus reducing and curbing competition. That's one thing. Secondly, I think there's going to be ino-fires that will absolutely compromise our domestic insurance companies on our market and that's how we're going to create an artificial monopoly and, of course, we're going to conduct prices tomorrow. So we will have enormously high prices for certain types of insurance, which surely, in the socio-economic situation in which Serbia is located, our citizens will not be able to escort. I think this censorship here may be one of the highest censorships in Europe and he's about to disrupt this law and, in the end, devalue a good law that has created good mennahisms and control and defenses. Of course, there's quite a lot of surveillance here, whether surveillance should be done by the agency or by the National Bank. In many countries, surveillance is carried out by the agency, in some people's bank, but for me it is not such a big dilemma if supervision is good and correct. I would once again appeal to all of us to in some way adapt this censorship that is terribly high to our people and, at the very end of the line, create a good and healthy competition, so as not to put out the very start of a home house that deals with insurance. I think we should think about it, so we don't create an artificial monopoly and allow some people to make it impossible for our people to use insurance services by conducting prices on our market tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2644	The People's Messenger Milovan Radovanovic has the word, and after him, Milko Stimac.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2645	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, with respect to the establishment of the National Savings Bank in December 2001, when the state was robbed by tens of millions of euros, even a hundred, it seems that someone in power is very fond of newly formed and newly established institutions of the system to give omens -- national, national, national. The reasons for the adoption of this law are said to build a modern system of stable funding. Unlike the incursion of firearms in the NBJ in October 2000, where many platinum, gold, silver bars and art paintings disappeared, it is obvious that this is an announcement of a modern, new system of financial malversions, which is institutionalized through the establishment of a national housing insurance corporation. It seems that it is only true in all of this that you establish a corporation with the aim of meeting the needs of the main participants, as you say in the light of this bill -- banks, and special banks, and in my opinion, Euroaxis Bank, HVB, Vojvodjanska Banka. On the one hand, in most cases, you have shut down an unwarranted twenty banks, including Beobank, Invest Bank, Investment Bank, Belgrade Bank, just to open up space for the other; others are some foreign banks, scientological financial organisations and insurance companies. We in the SRS believe that you do not care at all about the users of the loan, those citizens of Serbia who need housing, but only want to provide this law and to ensure that the financial resources are poured over to certain banks. I've already mentioned what banks could be -- Euroaxis Bank, HVB and others. This is what you want me to intercede the corporation, which is the subject of this bill, fly state money out of the budget, donations and other sources into those banks, i.e. in your pockets, into the pockets of individuals, and what you will achieve by possible recapitalisation. The example is already familiar with the National Savings Bank, in the case of the second and third recapitalisations, where you have poured a lot of money from the state budget into private accounts and private pockets. You'll make the corporation completely under the control of a few people, not all of your special interest organizations, but just a few people from that organization of yours. All of this looks like a familiar way of doing scientology, California sects, or whatever they call it -- science cults, cults of experts, from your special interest organization, which, of course, was founded, which you know very well, Ronald Ron - Lionel Habard, which is being promoted here by your chairman of the G17 Plus party. This most dangerous sect in the world is forbidden in Germany, France, Greece, and thanks to some people, it is experiencing full affirmation here and is taking the dominant place in the financial and monetary sphere of our country. Corporate funds, under the bill, are budget funds, donations, corporate incomes, etc. You're saying that at least 10 million euros from the budget should be transferred to the corporation's gyro-account, and at most - how much? Is that 100, 200 or more million euros? That's what control is about, outside of this law, and only in people who are directly interested in corporate business. In what way does a corporation earn income and profit? It's not in the bill. Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic spoke about income in his afternoon appearance for the speaker, but does not mention what the corporation will make the income from. The imaginary income, the income in mind is in abstraction, has no reality. When it comes to donations, it's already been seen. You're rerouting donation funds for some other purpose. You have already been cited several times for this speaker an example of a donation from the French government of 399,000 euros that you have directed at the G17 Plus cash register. Of course, because of this and countless other examples, we in the SRS absolutely have no confidence in this special interest organization, especially in certain people who run this encrypted political organization. According to this proposal, since it is not subject to regulation, it is not mentioned who is the investor of residential loans i.e. Unit. In principle, it should of course be the users of the loan. And now, of course, since he is familiar with this, with financial housing malfeasances, that Mr. Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic might be present to respond to the construction of the JU business centre, the new building in New Belgrade, by joining apartments 313 and 314... You shut up. You don't know that? Who is the investor of this residential space created by the merger of these two apartments 313 and 314? Of course, the future user Aleksandar Tijanic, and the investor is not Astra Banka, was shut down by Mladjan Dinkic, not even the scientologists It's not even a BK group. [[Laughter]] It is, of course, Bogoljub Karić, a direct associate of all people in power. Furthermore, in certain provisions of this bill, you say that the board of directors of the corporation chooses an auditor. If this is a state institution, then it's simply impossible for the board to choose an auditor. That, in the end, must be done by the Serbian government. You're saying that the board of directors determines the banks where the corporate funds will be managed. We in the SRS know which banks they can be. Euroaxis Bank, HVB, Hungari Bank, of course, and Vojvodina Bank, which is, by the way, said, you know, stopped being our people's bank. It became the ownership of an international financial corporation with the IMF, or World Bank. By converting the demand of an international financial corporation from a large amount of debt held by the Vojvodina Bank to this international financial organisation, by converting that claim into the ownership of the Vojvodina Bank, it already controls the demands of the Vojvodina Bank towards many enterprises in Vojvodina. The country suffered damages of nearly 150m euros, which is also of no interest to you, all thanks to Miroljub Labus and Mladjan Dinkic. In the corporate board of directors and supervisory boards, there will be people from G17 plus (of course you count on it), which, again in accordance with the principles of scientology, should construct the entire financial system of the country. And who are you, sir? [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2646	Please, I've already warned several times, be kind. Just a second, of course it's the Ministry's representative and he's required to sit down. [[Sagar.]] Be kind, this is Mr. Goran Angelic of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Radovanovic, do not let them interrupt you, and I ask the MPs not to receive it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2647	The present gentleman is not an MP, he is not a member of the government, and the proposing representative can only be a member of the government. The present gentleman is not a member of the government, so his presence here may be on some other basis, but in any case he cannot be a representative of the government under this bill. I'm sure as president of the assembly you know that, all you have to do is take steps to make it so.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2648	Don't worry, as assistant minister, he won't be able to take his word, and of course it's necessary to be present, because it's important for the government to hear your remarks on the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2649	Gentlemen of the SPS, you should know what you're going to vote for when it comes to this bill, because this is direct interference and procedure in state money from a group of people. The returner, of course, won't be president of Serbia... As it is a shame for Serbia to have the President of the Constitutional Court as Slobodan Vučetic, it is so disastrous for our country that the finances are in the hands of the G17 Plus people, with the huge impact of the Scientological sect. And on the proposal for a law on the National Bank of Serbia, I'm just going to say a few more words. In view of the second fact, according to what has been happening in the last few years, the legal provision should regulate even the receiving of the governor of the NBS, to equalize themselves with the incomes, possibly, the President of the National Assembly or the Prime Minister, since Mark Jelassiti, since 6 December 2000, has become a Hungarian citizen of Croatian nationality, and since 19 December of the same year, under the name Radovan Jelasic and citizen of the SRJ, thanks to Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus, has become a vice governor of the NBS and has received more than 200 thousand dinars, which we consider to be many and unnecessary in the SRS. As a result, these amendments to the NBS Act should fully limit the upper amount of the receiving of the governors of the NBS, as this proposal also wants a special interest group to fully control insurance companies, in terms of granting and withdrawing licences for the operation and control of their business. Of course, certain insurance companies that are personally interested in certain people will be privileged. You remember the suspicious business of "Dunav Group" and "Dunav Insurance", while the chairman of the management board of the group was Miroljub Labus, president of G17 Plus. Of course the NBS can't control the work of insurance companies. An obvious example for these findings on both law and law is the bill on the national housing insurance corporation. That's how we know it in the SRS, because we're giving accurate and realistic estimates: realistically completely.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2650	The People's Messenger Milko Štimac has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dragoljub Stamenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2651	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I apologize for forgetting my sock today to make it easier for my colleagues to recognize me, but it happens. I'll take it to the next session. I apologize for one more thing: we have led the congregation astray. Mr. Goran Angelic here is not a representative of the ministry, he is the secret controller of a large box of scientologists. It's here that if one of us starts talking about something that isn't programmed in advance, with his mental powers, with the help of transcendent meditation, he'll get us back on track. (President: Mr. Stimac, theme. I'm sticking to the subject. The topic is laws concerning the financial market and we are discussing them today. Unfortunately, Mr. Goran Angelic can only influence us, MPs from the SPS and the DSS with his mental powers, otherwise he would certainly prevent the discussion of my predecessor. But we're working on it, and I guess Goran Angelic will improve his powers and then we'll be able to interrupt this kind of discussion and get back together to what we're here for. Dear colleagues, we are chosen here to do a serious job. From now on, you haven't been able to hear this kind of discussion. I'm personally very disappointed. This serious business, among other things, consists of legislative activity. So this body is a representative of national sovereignty. Telling a story about scientologists or I don't know what it is, if you think you can get voters, well done, but I guess you can't. So we're really wasting our time. Let's really change the discussion a little bit. (President: Mr. Stimac, once again please - topic. I'll be back on the subject. I see a lot of people here are bothered by the mention of G17 plus, that many here are even bothered by the presence of G17 plus. If we wanted to be incorrect, we could also talk about promises. Look, the presence of a G17 plus can bother a lot of people here because we keep our promises. Everything we've said, we've fulfilled. When we talked about reforms in the previous government, as long as we were in that government, we met those reforms, but we seem to have taken them too seriously, so we're squeezed out of it. If we're going to talk about promises, imagine that I reminded you, dear colleagues, I'm not going to say from which party, on your various promises, of which only the fact that all Serbs live in one country, just not that line of distinction you talked about. (President: Mr. Stimac, third time - topic. Be kind, get back on the subject. I also warned the previous speaker. Be kind and talk about the subject. I ask the People's Messengers to allow the Messenger of Smythe to speak. Here you go. We're back on the subject. As someone who deals with the financial market, it is my special pleasure that we can discuss this set of laws today. This set of laws, past legislation, past its formal legal side, brings with it one new quality, one aggregate effect and allows for a new quality or even, if you will, three levels of quality in our financial market: introduces new financial instruments to the financial market; introduces new participants to the financial market and, finally, strengthens financial market surveillance. In particular, I would refer to three laws: the law on the national housing insurance corporation, the law on insurance companies and the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. What are these advantages that they provide together for our financial market? The first is the introduction of a new, high-quality financial instrument on the market. They're mortgages. This instrument serves, as well as other instruments on the financial market, to raise free funds, to generate additional financial and therefore economic activities; then, it reduces business risks, because it is high-quality securities of values that have a solid background and behind which the government guarantee stands, and a solid basis is practically a mortgage or immovableity. In this way, these mortgages increase financial market activities, raise the general business and investment climate in our market, thus attracting investment, generation and domestic investment, and thus attracting foreign investment. They're also known by the most developed systems. For example, for a very long time they have been used in developed markets such as Germany or the United States, especially Canadian. This model is, in this form, perfected like this, taken over from Canada. However, for those interested in this, it should be recalled that in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia such mortgages were a very active financial instrument on the market, very high quality, that even the State Mortgage Bank had placed its charters on the New York and London Stock Exchange. So it's something that will, in any case, be a step further towards normalising our economic opportunities and approaching global standards of business on the financial market. In addition to introducing order into this matter and this new quality, the insurance companies law provides us with a new participant's introduction into the financial market, because the law strictly prescribes how insurance companies can place funds that they collect by selling policies. Insurance is practically a kind of savings that, under this law, or according to this set of laws, is double secured. First, strong control, secondly, strict and clear investment regulations. So we basically get strong players on the market, which are by definition and by the regulations that these laws provide for conservative investment, therefore, for channeling the collected funds in the economy and according to profitability, therefore, that is another additional incentive for the development of the economy. This also raises our business characteristics and attracts investment. And what's particularly important is that it's a special democratic element. This law is about meeting some of the principles of economic democracy. There is also a chance for small investors to practically buy insurance, investing via insurance policy to the insurance company to increase their assets, to simply capitalize them. Of course, the investment fund law, whose preparation has begun, should do so in a much more explicit way to regulate, but I hope that soon we will have the opportunity to talk about this law too. The financial market usually rests on trust. Of course, not on the trust we're used to in everyday human relationships, family or friends, but on the trust that is not without control, the special trust for which control is crucial. From there, the question immediately follows, and the question of how did the legislator define that the National Bank is practically the direct controller of insurance companies. Because it's proven to be a long-term work that the National Bank can be independent, because it's independent, which is effective, because it's capable, which has enough trained personnel. You will allow me to remind you that this government has found unmade, decomposed and disbanded institutions. In practice, one of these institutions was to be found to rely on in the function of controlling one segment of the financial market. The definition of the National Bank of Serbia as a controller is another move that shows practically how much this government and those who make it, including us among them, are keeping promised. One of our promises was, I'll remind you, to build a responsible state, so that state that rests on strong institutions; to rely on such independent institutions once we've established them. This also implies that such a responsible state and responsible government take care of the entire population, its well-being, that everyone can get a chance to do something with their work, that the results of this work can capitalise and increase. Once again, the insurance company law will provide this indirectly, and there are other laws ahead, including the investment fund law that will directly regulate it. Finally, both the Government and its ministers have since the very beginning shown commitment to this goal -- and to negotiations in Washington, London, and such activities here in Belgrade, by passing these system laws that we needed through, necessary as an integral part of the economic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2652	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Replica, excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2653	Why the replica, I didn't mention anyone?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2654	Mr. Mirovic will tell us the reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2655	Replic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. I think MPs are amazed at the degree of hypocrisy of a parliamentary group, which is all-heartedly behind the law and the untrue reasoning of a special law on insurance. From here you should not be surprised by the reaction of the MPs, because the degree of amazement is very great. I'll tell you why. In light of the insurance law, you are experts and you will understand it, it says: Articles 8 - 10. The draft law introduces a basic division into two groups of insurance operations, namely life insurance and non-life insurance, and then a single classification of the type of insurance is carried out within those categories of business, in accordance with the Annex to Directive 73/239 of the European Economic Community and Directive 2002/83. These directives do not say that it is necessary to classify life insurance and that only in this way future insurance companies can operate. That's one hoax. We can talk about one concept or another, cross the spear, talk about different methodologies, stand up to one another, but we can't deceive ourselves like this. The European Economic Community Directive on the harmonisation of rules on supervision in the course of adoption and operation of insurance organisations of EU Member States lays down the rule that life insurance and property insurance operations of insurance organisations cannot perform at the same time, but allows organisations that do so by the date of entry into force of these rules through EU law to continue to carry out these tasks under special conditions. So, here it's very skillful, and it's the subject of criticism, it directs this so-called expert theory to a completely wrong track, where I repeat, these so-called experts want to devalue our insurance by making it separate life insurance and non-life insurance at any cost, to get to Article 243 that allows the Ministry of Finance, once again composed of experts, past all the rules laid down by the Privatization Act, past the Resorable Ministry of Privatization, to privatize our insurance houses. It's the subject of discussion. Answer us if it's true or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2656	Thank you, Mr. Mirovic. Now it's clearer for everyone. The People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared Nenad Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2657	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Stimac seemed so serious about this pay phone that I began to believe him and that he claimed that the first-class gentleman was not a representative of the government, I am increasingly convinced that Mr. Stimac seriously thought that Mr. Secret Control was a big box. Already, several speakers from the speaker also drew attention to the president of the National Assembly and the congregation’s majority for an unwarranted delay in the work of the National Assembly. Indeed, if SRS MPs from Vrana, Nis, Bora come in time for the beginning of the session, it is likely that the basic decency and obligation towards the citizens of Serbia that the ruling MPs here, the collected majority of the efforts, come in time and that we work so more efficiently and more quickly. But ministers and MPs, and even the Prime Minister, joined the election campaign. Yesterday, I see Mr. Marsican lurking through the mystium walls, walls, openings, something like a roller coaster doing, and all in order to draw attention to voters that he is hardworking and hardworking and that this is how Serbia will be when he is President of the Republic. The government is doing nothing and ineffective, and so is the National Assembly. That is why the government is collected from various political parties with different ideology, political programmes, such as the ruling majority's MPs. You are increasingly scheduled for sessions where the agenda points are under emergency procedure. (President: Mr Stamenkovic, subject. ) By this you look much like the failed regime of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic, because the appointment of sessions by emergency procedure is not an emergency. Describing the bill on the national housing insurance corporation, Mladjan Dinkic, the minister says this - we will not have five to ten years of favourable housing loans unless we adopt this law. Maybe so, but what about those promises made by the team of the then NGO G17 plus; remember those commercials, going to Labus, Dinkic, followed by Mr. Markovic, then there was that unfortunate Boza "derikoza" and then dressed like Topalovici, in those suits, say - this year I first went on vacation with the kids, bought a car on loan, and next year I'll buy an apartment or a house on loan. It was 2000, and today it's 2004. What have you been waiting for? You G17s are like JULs, like the New Democracy in every government you've ever been. Directly in the government, around the government or the National Bank, sometimes with a mask, sometimes without a mask, sometimes with a gun, sometimes without a gun. What's a favourable loan to you? If the apartment costs 30,000 euros and is bought for 20 years, then the monthly war will be around 125 euros, without interest. Maybe it's in a normal state where it makes 1,000, 2,000 euros that's a favourable and normal loan. In this country, such a loan is not normal. This country earns between 60 euros and 100 euros. You may show it more statistically, but most Serbian citizens make between 60 and 100, maximum 150 euros. This is not the way to solve the problem, this law, but by increasing productivity, employment, reviving the economy, something that brings profit, profit, and thus brings benefits to those who will benefit from these loans. How do we solve that problem? Very difficult. All that was worth, all that was important or most of what was worth the previous government had sold the budget for, without protection, drove the workers to the streets. It's gonna be hard to solve that problem. There is one way, but it will be very soon, once Tomislav Nikolic is president of Serbia, he signs new elections and radicals of victory in these elections and educates the government on their own. Says the minister, in light of the bill's proposal, that the war cannot exceed 60% of the total income of the domestics, or family members, of those living in a single household. It says - it will stimulate citizens to report all their incomes, because now many incomes are not reported. The previous "God's Derikoza" says -- we're going to put fiscal cash registers on fleas and prove that these people aren't unemployed, that they chose their jobs, and then they're going to become business entities, they're going to pay legal taxes. So they're not on the street, they're not poor. This new "God's Derek" says -- no, citizens aren't poor, citizens have a lot of money, they just don't report all their incomes. Now that they report all their incomes, they'll be able to get the right loans from the banks, and with the help of this trust fund, they'll solve all their needs. How will those who give 60% of their total income for loans with the remaining 40% live, feed children, train, treat themselves, raise credits for white technology, clothes, shoes, etc.? Some members of the law talk about corporate governance bodies. See Articles 12, 13 and 14. The corporate board has a president and four members appointed by the government on a proposal from the finance ministry, i.e. the finance minister. The corporate board of directors adopts statutes, business rules, corporate work programme, business policy, working rules and all that matters about corporate work. Article 14 says - the director of the corporation appoints and resolves the government, on a proposal from the ministry. What he's going to say is that Mladjan Dinkic is this fund, because he is the finance minister. All of this is done by the Government, or the Ministry of Finance. You see, where the money is, where the financial power is, where the sources of income are, there's G17, there's Dinkic, there's the government, there's Labus and the rest of the G17 organization. There's still no word on the bill. In market economy countries, it's easy to take credit, and it's normal for someone to have a job today, someone has capital today, tomorrow it's gone, it's a job. It's business. He has the certainty that he will find a new job and be able to continue paying off credit wars and liabilities. Who guarantees in this country that anyone can even get a job? Do you know what kind of law you've passed? Who loses a job with 50 years of life will ever be employed in this country again? That's your responsibility. You continue these traditions of the former failed government whose intentions you follow and similar moves you draw. It doesn't help this law, it helps a healthy economy, reviving the economy, reviving economic activity, creating ambience to achieve this, developing a small economy and private entrepreneurship and what's left of the public sector to do more successfully and better. In the insurance bill, it's the same story. The National Bank of Serbia is overseeing the work of insurance companies. And where the National Bank is, there's the G17. Why isn't an independent agency doing that? What kind of control is that? Who's in control here? Article 243 of the law says the privatisation process can also be launched by the Ministry of Finance. So the finance minister can do it again. There is no longer that unfortunate governor of the National Bank, but there is again Mr Dinkic, and wherever Dinkic is, there is always money and there is no control and he always controls himself. There lies a rabbit in this law. To enable the privatisation of insurance companies under any conditions and, as the government of Boris Tadic, Zoran Zivkovic and Zoran Djindjic did, to be sold as long as possible. It's this source that will allow us to rule for a few years, and when we leave... They know it won't be long, they don't care what happens to Serbia and the economy. As for the law on public procurement, no one has ever said that it's not good to have tenders, competitions, biddings, but how do we make sure these tenders aren't set up, in this law it doesn't stand. Ask Zivkovic, Ciric, Acu Krstic, called Šap from Nis, former customs director, how tenders are staged. The best tender has never been respected. Never the cheapest and most favourable conditions are... There's always some annex contracts for someone who's asking for five million, and eventually it turns out to be 250 million. We don't have that mechanism here. The draft law amending and supplementing the National Bank Act has made one progress, and that is why I am really happy. Finally, Mr. Dinkic took off his mask, hung a hekler on a spike, took a pen and paper, which he will write, we will see, but it is important that he does not enter the National Bank with a hacker. That's the most important thing. Mr. Milan Markovic of the DS says most of the proposed laws were conceived by the previous government, showing how successful it was, how far-sighted and how well she thought. Imagine, if this government has come up with these laws and so infamously failed in the elections, what will happen to this government that prescribes these laws. The laws are either good or not good, it doesn't matter whether they're written by the previous or whether they're written by this government. Now, in the course of the presidential campaign here, there is an offer to build 50,000 apartments if this law, that law, or some third law is passed. Gentlemen, sometimes the Socialists offered bread, oil, sugar and gave it to the election campaign, but even they didn't lie about 50,000 apartments. Mrkonjic barely made 10,000 apartments. How come you're campaigning right now? Is the Martian going to start making a few of them with that mystery, like he was painted on TV? It's already been seen. At the very end, the coalition partners of this government, the coalition partners of the shadow -- we just heard about some shadows, some secret controllers, so here we have coalition partners from the shadows -- to God criticise these laws, and in voting day they will vote for them. One MP publicly advertised that he was able to reduce the excise on oil, i.e. to lift it, even on radio ads he was giving it, and here we have again this law of oacsis; this time they will vote for it and I don't know what it will say. So don't pretend to be an opposition, gentlemen, even though it's an election year. Act in accordance with your secret or coalition agreement and vote publicly for what you agreed on, I don't know what services. Which would be perfectly normal, if you are already a coalition of DSS, G17 plus, SPO, SPS, agree, it is a shame that 30, 40, 50 amendments have on the proposal of your beloved government. What does this beloved government of yours do if you submit amendments? It means the government doesn't do its job, so you have to do MPs' clubs or some other way of correcting them. But they'll get rid of it. The radicals are coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2658	Mr. Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2659	Of course I wasn't called because I didn't sign up for the word, I was mentioned twice in Mr. Stamenkovic's presentation. In the most positive sense, maybe, but I still don't like it when people cheat and in a positive sense. You do, Mr. Stamenkovic. I've never been in any video, nothing. I accept your apology. I was in Dusan Kovacevic's "Proper", which is something else. I was never in executive power, nobody's, even when the Government of the Republic of Serbia appointed me to two boards in 2002, I sent a letter in which I responded -- I'm only on boards of those organisations and companies that I founded or finance myself. So I wasn't in executive power, I wasn't on videos ever, and I've never seen any G17 plus videos about loans, not as an NGO, not as a party. Finally, it is not the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party or any other party who have warned the president of the assembly that MPs are not on time, but the president of the assembly warned the ruling coalition not to arrive on time exactly 83 minutes ago. It's very important to respect the facts, you may need them sometimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2660	The People's Messenger Nenad Bogdanovic has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2661	Of course, I'll try to concentrate on what I think I understand best, given that we have five laws here that I can't find the slightest logic of why they found themselves together in the package. The first two laws can only be discussed jointly because they have the word "security" in them or because they have three words -- the government of the Republic of Serbia, but have no slight relationship with each other. These are two laws that treat completely different problems. What does the Public Procurement Act have to do with the Insurance Act? Why does it have to be like that, and why does it have to be an emergency procedure? It's something I really can't understand. I can't understand that kind of rush. I can't understand that this is how MPs don't respect this house, to a level I haven't seen since I've been an MP. There were problems in the previous session, there were objections, but this level of disrespect I don't think it was. That's what the MPs who were can say. What's there is, must be done this way. Personally, I think this will result in bad laws, but I'm looking forward to some other things. I am pleased that, however, MPs of the ruling coalition, if they are distracted by well-meaning attention to certain things, accept it, and then try to change the amendments that they have accepted. I will not talk about the insurance law, because many have said, above all, Mr Markovic, and after that many have repeated that the law has many shortcomings. If I were a minister, I'd pull him out. I would pull it back and try to change some things, because I'm afraid the amendments will cause trouble, that there will be no solutions after the amendments to some things. Of course, the biggest problem is the violation of the Company Act. So that's the most convincing problem of the law. I can see that Mr. Schimtz's amendment practically accepted the suggestion that it should be removed from the law, but I wouldn't use a social demagogue that's very popular in this House when we talk about privatisation. Privatization is a good thing. Privatisation is the essence of changing the social system and changing this country. Therefore, privatisation of insurance is a good thing, but the problem is something else. The problem is whether privatisation will occur this way. I think we're going to have a much more complex situation and of course I don't think the National Bank should be in this story, and that's what the other one is going to talk about. I want to say something about the Public Procurement Act. The worst that people can do is talk about system laws that need to prevent corruption or, Serbianly speaking, thieving in the way it is spoken in this House. There is no solution to corruption without public work and without system laws. Of course, everything in life, including laws, can be played. Everything in life, including tenders, can be played, but that's why the public in work and system laws are the best protection from it. All other variants, some anti-corruption advice, some experts who understand everything, talk about everything, about corruption, and how they think about it, it's all bad. The best way is the law. The law on public procurement is an extraordinary law. You know what the best measure of it is? Some try to challenge him with the thesis that we're all thieves, so since we're all thieves, we can be thieves too. So it's the thesis of some here in parliament. Have them get into the essence of implementing this law, get them to run an analysis. What's the best indicator of whether the law is good or not? How many have challenged the participants in the tenders, how much has it proved that corruption, how many complaints have been made to the Commission for the protection of the bidders, how many positive objections there have been. It's serious stories. What is proposed today is not what we once wanted, while it was the previous government, as the Democratic Party. We think that it was a better solution and with a few amendments we will try to supplement it, but we will also vote for these changes, because the Public Procurement Act is the best way to protect the budget. Anyone who says it's another way doesn't tell the truth and wants corruption. I don't have any dilemma here. It's kind of my job experience I've been doing so far. We return to the first law, which is most interesting as a political topic. He is political. Why is he political? Because it can't be applied. His score will be, or some variants of this law, in three to four years. So, when many other system laws are passed in Serbia, for example, The mortgage bill. Without the mortgage law, this law doesn't make any sense, but in order for this law to live, it's much more important that there are technologies that will allow housing to be built. This law doesn't solve it for two reasons. First, because the apartment building is expensive. She's unnecessarily expensive. Not the apartment building itself, but the sale of apartments in Serbia. Why? Because there are few apartments. So the essence and main job that the government should be doing under this law is to allow for an increase in housing. There's a reason why this law won't be able to live. The Democratic Party will support this law, and you know why? If this law allows at least ten people or ten families to solve their housing issues, we are also in favour of the law. But the model of this law has one big falinky, no system solution to increase housing. In order for the housing to develop, that our construction companies, as some of them are here, of course always in the demagogic passwords, say, we should encourage production, resuscitate production. It's mostly about reviving production, but no one's saying that, which technology, whose role should be decisive in that. I think in the next three or four years it has to be the role of the state and I don't think it's understood. Part of the local self-government, but part of the state at the level of the Republic. Without the help of the state, that's not gonna happen. I can and I'm really ready to talk to the people of the Republic government, get them a model from Belgrade. The model from Belgrade has made it possible to produce 2,000 apartments in two years. You know how? By signing up for those 1,000 people. There were the same demagogue passwords -- they don't have people's money, people won't be able to sign up. No, 6,000 families signed up for that contest. Why did she sign up? Because the war to pay off that loan is at the level of what they usually pay for when they rent an apartment. If that's it, why would they rent an apartment, why not buy their own apartment and pay it off? Next, what did we do? We have applied something that is done in the richest countries in Europe, which is so-called. Production, and so does the state, social, non-profit housing. So, you have to influence the market itself, you can't let what's going on today happen, which is that New Belgrade apartments now cost 1,300 euros a square meter of new construction, that in the city centre of Vrakar it costs 2,500 euros. Try to buy an apartment today and you'll see that it is. We have proved that a good apartment in New Belgrade, on the Chukaric slope, can be built at a price of between 700 and 800 euros. So if you have the price of a 750-euro apartment, for what we've sold these apartments, on a 20-year-old loan with a 20% stake in Belgrade, there are 6,000 families, if you create conditions for it, then this will make sense; we'll change our model first in town, because we had to do something else. We had to go with the banks, because they respect our budget abilities, to agree on how they would credit and we would stand as the city administration behind it. However, this should be done in this way -- that banks are safe, of course, with the right mortgages, to finance such lending, but that makes sense if the cost of the apartment is 750 euros. If the price of the apartment is 1,100, 1,300, 2,000, 2,500 euros, there is nothing. Therefore, the state must find ways to stimulate local self-government throughout Serbia to enter the housing project. The increase in housing can't be the way it used to be and that's clear. So we no longer have the time we had, no more assigning apartments, and especially this is important that no model that you want to apply now will give apartments to the poorest. The one who talks about housing for the poorest again is dealing with social demagogy, and I think this people have slowly figured out what social demagogy is. We've abolished practically, by abolishing the income fund tax, a solid construction. Of course, in Belgrade it will not stop, because we will allocate funds from other sources, but in Serbia it will stop, because simply the budgets of municipalities cannot do so. How could the poorest get to the apartment by now? Just like that. So, the poorest citizens of this country without the Solidarity Fund in the next 4-5 years certainly won't be able to have apartments again. In Belgrade, 980 of them will be able to solve it in two years; it's not much, but let's do it everywhere. I think we can, if we had a serious project where we're going to have an apartment building, where we're going to have an extraordinary development of the construction industry, where many people are going to solve housing problems and of course, then this law is going to make sense. Therefore, it is a shame that such a law comes to the ground that it cannot bear. So we have to think about housing the same way we think about agriculture and other things. We simply cannot allow people to resolve their housing issues. Therefore, the DS will support all those laws that show the least signs of further reforms, as unfortunately reforms stand and stand, and everything that is bad will not be able to support it. We think these two laws, about insurance and the place of the National Bank in insurance, are extremely bad. If the amendments we've given are accepted, of course we'll support you, but I already feel like it's not going to go exactly like that, I'm sorry, because I think the solutions we've offered are much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2662	The People's MP Branislav Rankic has the word, followed by the MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of these five points of the agenda on which a united debate is being held, the first point has been brought to the attention. It's a bill on a national housing insurance corporation. It's clear to me why, and it's mostly a continuation of what the government, and the former and present, are going to set up agencies, create a huge number of administrations, and the citizens of Serbia and the budget can't take it anymore. In fact, 10 million euros in initial capital for the establishment of this corporation is too much money for the impoverished state. The ways in which the corporate funding is listed are: corporate revenues - it is unclear what these revenues are and what they may be; donations - I doubt they will be, or I'm almost sure they won't; the Republic of Serbia's budget - are the only ones from which money will be taken; and other sources, in accordance with the law -- which they won't be. However, there are some sentences that are completely unclear to me, perhaps because I am not an expert in the financial, economic field, so I would like someone from the government to try to tell me what the sentence here is for the reasons of law-making. Namely, it says -- the national housing insurance corporation is tasked with developing a residential market in Serbia by offering dedicated financial products to meet critical market needs. It's completely unclear to me, come on, loans, but what are critical market needs in Serbia, I don't know. You see, the finance minister began to explain these laws by saying that they should be passed among other things, especially this first law, because there was a crisis of trust in the banking system. About a year ago, perhaps something more, when Mladjan Dinkic was the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, he said that the success of the governor and the National Bank was because the citizens had fully regained confidence in the banks. Was he honest when he claimed that the citizens' trust in the banks had been restored or not, and now he claims that these laws should restore confidence in the banking system? I don't know exactly what it is. I wish when he's here he'd try to answer this. It's said the corporation takes the risk of banks. And then what about the corporation, who takes the risk that the corporation might be doing negatively? The big problems will arise in the very application of this law. I think it's simply gonna be inconclusive that those people who are being declared here are actually able to come up with favourable housing loans. The proposal for a law establishing a national corporation may have success in major cities in Serbia, where there is a housing market, the need for housing. I'll give you an example of Bora. For about three average apartments in Belgrade, in Bor, you can buy one ten-story solitary. In Majdanpek for three apartments in Bor, you can buy maybe one local community. Now, look what it'll look like if someone from Bora wants to buy an apartment and, say, put their assets under the mortgage, what happens to the corporation if tomorrow the bank that gave the loan provides a refund, or how much it goes down. The finance minister here also said that the adoption of the law would launch a construction operation in Serbia. I doubt a single piece of paper can do that. It's a much bigger job, for a lot of experts and firms. It is also said that people avoid various types of insurance in Serbia because they do not trust insurance companies. That's not true. They know citizens who are good insurance companies and trust certain insurance companies. Citizens in Serbia avoid insurance because more than 800,000 people in Serbia do not have enough to eat, and that is the only reason why they are not threatened to invest in their insurance. If some former government had once sought to centralise finance and other areas this much, it would have been objected to. However, it is now being overcome and it is believed that the centralisation of institutions and everything else is quite democratic and in line with what suits you. It is thus said that the Bank Rehabilitation Agency will call a tender when it comes to the Bill on the Completion of the Securities Market Act, i.e. to call a tender for the privatisation of banks with majority social capital. I am interested in whether the Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks, which is why it was first established, rescheduled any banks in Serbia. What's this about? The first law should be passed so that after the destruction of domestic banks, when Serbia's financial market is left to foreign banks, additionally ensure that foreign banks, if they can't recover funds, will stand behind it by the Republic of Serbia and will be settled from the budget. If banks make a profit by lending, why not take the risk of making that profit? Why would banks make profits and the state cover their risks and take it upon itself? In the end, the Law on Public Procurement - so far public procurement is unrelated to how high-quality the law was mainly in all of Serbia the biggest source of the worst abuses. I'll set an example of what it looks like in the local community. Two years ago, a public tap of the size of this pay phone I'm standing for was built in Bor. It was paid 7,500 euros. Then you can imagine what it looks like when someone in the local community is allowed to call a tender, determines the performers or those who will supply them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2664	The word has the People's MP Slavoljub Matic, and let Zoran Antić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS will support these five legislative projects of the Republic government. We believe that regardless of the fact that Serbia is in the election campaign, this parliament must work and that some election promises, made in December last year, should be realised through what provides conditions for the better life of our citizens. One of those laws that provides for the improvement of our people in the coming period is also a law that enables residential construction in our country. The fact is that young people don't have the opportunity to enter projects related to building their own apartments. If they do not have the opportunity to secure the place of their lives, we will definitely experience what we already have, which is the white plague in Serbia. This law provides conditions for overpriced banking interest precisely to provide banks with greater security, in order to lower those interest rates. What is the lack of this law is the inability to see results overnight. I am more than sure that in the next few months we will have already formed a national corporation, and then, over the next year, and the first apartments for which money from the budget will be provided, which is not large. I'll remind you it's a sum of 700 million dinars, which can be 16 times bigger in providing bank loans, so with that money, it can already go on next year in residential construction. Critics say the law cannot be realised because experience shows that banks simply deafen to what the state does. But this is about concrete money, concrete guarantees, so that security will also make banking interest itself and greater flexibility in obtaining credits start this kind of construction operation and building apartments. What I could do in the context of the Security Act's proposal to criticise is not enough courage by the finance minister to control and oversee the work of insurance companies to trust an independent institution that might be called an agency or otherwise. But let's give the minister a chance to provide full surveillance and control through a national institution called NBS, at least for the first time. But believe me, we of the DSS will be the first to propose some additions to this bill if it turns out that the NBS is in some bad way controlling and controlling the insurance companies. Otherwise, we MPs, as well as ordinary citizens, are aware of the fact that a number of abuses have taken place in the last few years, and not only for a few years but for the last few decades, in many insurance companies; you have not been able to charge a single blinker or bumper on the car; phantom companies have appeared; so this law that brings the paper to the level of censorship - and I will remind MPs that it is an increase in censorship of about 123% on average - if anything else, it will at least provide greater security. So, when you go to the insurance company, you'll have some certainty that what they're offering will actually provide you. What I specifically reported for was the Public Procurement Act. (votes - theme) The Law on Public Procurement is a subject and it must certainly be improved. I had experience from three years ago that I found myself in local self-government, in my city, one situation where they were getting funds, what was needed to function, say office material, at prices that were more than 20 to 50%. And, as an MP, I was also interested in the law we passed during last term, the Public Procurement Act, bringing order into this area. Of course, he showed his shortcomings, and those shortcomings should be corrected. Here's a moment when we can correct them. I did my best, with my colleagues from the DSS parliamentary group, to fix it with some amendments. First, the law itself has one good intention, which is to stimulate domestic production and give it one, let me say, privileged position compared to foreign suppliers. That should say hello. We know that the launch of production is our primary interest, with Mr. Svetović and my littleness wanting to fully define with one amendment what it is that comes from domestic production. For, if a proposed solution to domestic goods remains, only products which are wholly produced in the country, or in whose production, in a single percentage amount, are not used. Simply, we must also stimulate production that will be based on import raw materials, so I suppose the assistant minister will pass on to Minister Dinkic this amendment, and I would ask the MPs to vote for it. Also, we have submitted one amendment seeking to stimulate those who are legally operating in this country. You know the problem of the gray economy is great. It would simply be unadvisable to allow those who are illegally operating at their lower price to make it impossible for those who are legally operating and trying to fight in this market within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2666	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antić, followed by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I feel an obligation, as a member of the Privatisation Committee, to say a few words about the Value Market Act. It was necessary to supplement and amend this law. We, members of the Privatisation Committee, have daily problems with the law that is in collegiate with the Privatisation Act and the Action Fund Act. Honestly, when I got this material, I expected these changes to go towards protection above all minority shareholders, their cooperative rights, the prospectus that is not issued, the validation of their actions, that part of the Charter Act from the values that implies the offer of takeover, but none of it happened in this proposal that we received from the Government. We have received a proposal to protect the state actions of banks, and the proposer has completely forgotten the rights of small shareholders, the rights of state and social capital, i.e. state and social capital held by the company. About 700,000 small shareholders have been completely neglected. It is necessary, first of all, to protect the rights of these small shareholders through a new amendment to the law. In the light of this law, the proponent seeks to protect, above all, the interests of foreign investors, counting on the privatisation of banks. It's something that's quite fine, but the question is, can foreign investors' interest be a hindrance to us from the interests of small shareholders, from the interests of state and social capital? I believe that this addition to the Law should be rejected in any case and that this is how we force the Government – the promoter to address the rights of small shareholders. The Securities Market Act, i.e. the Securities Market, has not been operational for four months. Interests and the rights of small shareholders and states must nevertheless be more than foreign investors' interests. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2668	The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, followed by the MP Susan Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2669	Madam Vice-President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected journalists, I will only talk about amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. Let me give a brief introduction on how we came to this law, what was the subject of the debate, what amendments we submitted, which were accepted, and why today we have amendments and additions to this law. The DOS government and its finance minister Bozidar Djelic released system and anti-corruption laws in the assembly procedure, as they said, on public procurement, right at the beginning of the mandate, and six months later, the law stood, did not come to parliament. At that time, several important things were done that I wanted to mention here, simply so that someone didn't think we didn't know or understood why it was so and what slowed down the passing of this law. Later, some state authorities, some media, some MPs, and some political parties spoke publicly about it. We talked when it was time. A day before the law entered the procedure in 2001, then Energy Minister Goran Novakovic obtained a full amount of crude oil for the state of Serbia throughout the year through his private firm. A few weeks before that, the MUP of the Republic of Serbia bought three and a half times more protection masks for police than Dutch suppliers, although Traylov's are among the best quality products of this kind in the world. Trayl's protective masks or protective masks components bought and bought by the United States, Canada, Austria, Israel and other countries. I simply want to remind those who had "transparentity" as a way of acting, as a political manner, did not always do what they declared. It is our obligation to mention it, simply not to forget and mention others, that when we have one such law on the agenda, regardless of what it is today in the form of changes and additions, we always take care of the elementary political, human, state and any other honesty. The public procurement sector is very important. Some countries have spent almost half their national income through this sector. So, for people who are not sufficiently directed, let me say that everything financed from local self-government, city assembly, state of Serbia and public enterprises that they set up and fund, is practically covered and is the subject of public procurement. Then we tried to explain, although we did not dispute the good intentions of the then legislator, that it is still important to take care of the domestic economy. Just now, the chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic, tried to bring it down to the level of social demagogy. The biggest satisfaction of the SPS was when Mr Bozidar Djelic only a few months after the Law was adopted, all what practically did our remarks, there were stenograms about it, included in the amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement, which entered the assembly procedure and we did not discuss because of what the DOS government had practically dropped at the session. We agreed then that domestic suppliers of goods or services, even under equal conditions, would have an advantage over foreign ones. We have been explained that we do not understand ourselves in the market economy, that we are advocates of the surviving concept and that the market does not know such a category. Only a few months after that, Djelic suggested that domestic suppliers of goods and services have a 20% discount, which basically means they can be up to 20% more expensive than foreign bidders, and that it is not a violation if you assign such a job to a domestic company. This is also in the case of amendments and additions to this law. Let me just say a few lines about it. It's not possible that our economy can always withstand the competition of such corporations that have a whole range of advantages and benefits compared to domestic ones, without doing any damage, and it's not true that the best offer is the one that's the cheapest. We can talk about this for a long time, but we don't have time for this here today. It was important to us and now it is important, and therefore we will support the changes and additions of this law, that those who are producing here, who are trying to make a product and sell it, are paid by the highest quality financial means, which are budget funds, get a chance because it can be much more expensive if it's supposed to be bought outside. How is it possible to withstand the competition of those large companies that have the subsidy of certain products, which some countries directly do? It's often about dumping prices. Was it just one of the instruments to secure the actual market, to choke production, and that the only thing we can give to someone in Serbia is cheap labour. All those who have contributed to the improvement of these several members of the Public Procurement Act for the better, in the sense that domestic producers and domestic service providers can, under the conditions that I have described to make some kind of profit, earn our trust and receive our votes here today. The law on public procurement is not always respected. I'm sorry, Mr. Bogdanovic came out, but I'm using the opportunity to ask him publicly how is it possible that the city garage in front of the Belgrade City Assembly is given "Energoproject" for an agreed price under certain conditions, and then that additional works in certain situations are practically two and a half times more expensive salaries, and how is it possible that according to this model he presented here, a garage place in Belgrade cost 450,000 dinars, as if it were a three bedroom apartment? We could talk about this for a long time. It is not always as simple and easy to explain everything, as someone is trying to do and to educate us that the Belgrade model is the best model in the world. That's not true. We're going to open these questions when they have time, I just want to say that we know what's going on. I apologize for mentioning this the second time, I was talking about when there was a conflict of jurisdiction law on the agenda, but whether the former Sports Directorate respected the Law on Public Procurement when the then director of the administration, Mr Vuksanovic, otherwise the president of the Belgrade organisation of the Democratic Centre and the nephew of Mr Dragoljub Micunović, enabled his wife to transfer the marketing campaign "Play for Life, Drugs, No, Play for Sport" to his wife's marketing agency and thus to transfer 25 million most qualitative budgets practically into his home budget. This is not normal and it is therefore important for the public procurement sector to be controlled in an understandable way, where corruption cannot be solved only by this law. It can, above all, be resolved that in a sector financed from the budget of all these units I have spoken about, order is imposed, and that all those who deliver goods or services are forced to work by law and in the most qualitative way possible, as would otherwise be expected to expect the trust that the legislator has shown them in this way, if this Parliament accepts it now. The law on public procurement is important, we will vote for it, but as we have so far, we will make sure that people behave in accordance with the law, and that domestic economy benefits from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2670	The People's Messenger Susan Grubjesic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2671	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, of the seven economic laws on the agenda today, I would like to remain on the draft law on the national housing insurance corporation, because I believe that this law will finally launch a regular housing market. This is based on the fact that 10m euros will be allocated to the government's 10m-euro budget for the start of this country's venture, and that the Serbian government will own 100% of the corporate stock. However, when looking at the current market conditions under which long-term housing loans could be granted, first of all given the current modest receipts of potential owners, it should be said that in 1945, when the Canadian housing corporation started working, and according to the example of our national corporation's proposal, the Canadian citizen had to set aside 50% of the participation in the purchase of the apartment, but by ensuring these loans, this participation was reduced to 30% over time, in order to date to be about 5%. This institution in Canada today finance the construction of 25,000 apartments and houses on an annual basis, with an interest rate of about 4%, creating 40% of the social gross product of Canada indirectly, through development of construction, furniture industry, home appliances and so on. In domestic conditions, the establishment of such a national corporation will encourage the development of the domestic real estate market and increase the credit volume, which will eventually improve the conditions for granting housing loans at lower interest, less participation, longer repayment deadlines and make them affordable for more people. It is estimated that a housing market is currently being created for the so-called middle class. The national corporation, which takes as much as 75 to 85% of the bank's risk through credit insurance, will be able to guarantee banks that finance new housing. Commercial banks cannot bear the entire risk of mortgage loans alone, and it is important that when that risk is taken by the state, as it will be with us, the risk is limited and that there is a budget item to cover potential risks, and in our case, as I said, 10m euros will be allocated from the budget for this purpose. The main driver of the housing financing project would be the national housing insurance corporation. It would be "a company founded by the state", i.e. a legal person specialising in the insurance of claims based on housing loans approved by banks and other financial organisations, and would be tasked with providing banks with a guarantee of loans to citizens. The purchaser of the apartment would guarantee the return of the loan and the loan would be as valuable as the property. The corporation would provide professional assistance to state authorities, banks and other financial organisations, with the aim of improving the conditions for financing housing. The supervision of the legality of the work of the corporation will be carried out by the finance ministry, while the presidents and members of the supervisory board will be appointed by the government, on a proposal from the ministries. A national corporation would secure a loan and if the buyer couldn't repay it, the bank would activate the mortgage and charge its debt at interest. The difference between the amount requested by the loan bank and the actual market prices of the apartment at the time of sale would be covered by a national corporation. Its minimum is not high, so the bill provides for a limitation of the amount a corporation can commit to. The promoter says it should be 16 times the amount of corporate capital available, which means we're talking about a sum of 160m euros. The government suggests that, apart from the budget, the national corporation can raise funds from donations, from other sources, and free funds can be placed in securities of value, but only so-called. First-class issues issued by the Republic or in bonds of old foreign exchange savings and the like. How much funding will individually be provided by this corporation towards citizens and banks would specifically determine the corporate business rules, which would also provide professional assistance to banks and other housing finance. In order for this corporation to work effectively, it is necessary to meet some important preconditions. It is, first of all, a unique catalogue of immovableity and legalisation and registration of all objects in electronic form, i.e. the book of property placed under mortgage. Secondly, it is the adoption of mortgage laws, as well as a law that will regulate the real estate market. Thirdly, it is the introduction of tax reliefs for citizens who, by buying an apartment on loan, resolve the housing issue. Fourthly, this is the adoption of measures to accelerate the long-term savings of citizens. We are sure that competition in the banking sector will eventually improve the conditions for obtaining bank loans and make them available to a wide range of people. Currently, according to research conducted in the major cities of Serbia, about 50,000 households are paid to take the housing loan and to repay it. Of course, interest rates should fall to a reasonable percentage. Currently, between 9% and 11% of banks are willing to lend housing loans, and these banks are only a few because banks have short-term sources of funding. Then, participation should be reduced and the period of repayment of housing loans increased, as for a large number of Serbian citizens this is the only way to resolve the housing issue. For these very reasons, the G17 Group of MPs will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-05-0.u2672	Thank you. I remind you once again that the session of the Legislative Committee is at 17.45 p.m. in the O.R. and downstairs. In accordance with article 94, I hereby extend the session for Friday, May 7 at 10.00 in the morning. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 162 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Milutin Pesic, Radjle Bukvic, Sanja Cekovic, Milan Nikolic, Cedomir Petkovic, Vladimir Jovanovic, Petar Cvetkovic, Vladimir Zahariev, Esad Djudjevic; Snezana Pantic will be late. People's MPs Zivodarka Dacin and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic announced a leave for the afternoon. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - PROPOSALS ON NATIONAL CORRPORATION FOR CREDIT ASSESSMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND AMENDMENTS OF THE LAWS ON PUBLIC AUTHORITIES (CONTINUE OF THE COMMON PRIOR PUBLIC ASSESSMENTS 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the Agenda) The word has the National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
