ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Unfortunately, at the beginning of this session, I must call upon you to pay our respects to tragically injured students from Bulgaria who have lost their lives in a serious car accident in our country on the way to the White Field-Prijepolje. Praise them! I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 196 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 124 MPs are present in the hall. In any case, there is no quorum for work, and therefore, on the basis of Articles 94, paragraphs 1 and 2, I set a break until 12.30 in order to secure the quorum. [[After break – 13.10 h]] I ask MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Boris Tadic, Zoran Micovic, Radojko Obradovic, and Mr Dragor Hiber was absent in the morning, I assume he returned in the meantime. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider and adopt proposals for the finance law and the draft law on preventing conflicts of interest in public authority, proposed by the proposal - the Serbian Government proposed to consider it by an urgent procedure. You were presented with records of the 6th and 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 30 March 2004. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions, as referred to in Article 82(3). Rules of Procedure. On the occasion of remarks by MP Zoran Tanasivic that he has announced a leave of absence from the 6th and 7th session of the National Assembly, which has not been found in the records, the Administrative Committee has considered this remark and is proposing to the National Assembly to accept it. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the 6th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 30 March 2004, with remarks from MP Zoran Tanasivic. For 127, of a total of 127 present Members of the People's Parliament. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 6th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 30 March 2004, with remarks from MP Zoran Tanasijevic. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 30 March 2004, with remarks from MP Zoran Tanasivic. For 127, they did not vote two out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 7th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, on 30 March 2004, with remarks from MP Zoran Tanasic. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed putting the draft law on the agenda of preventing conflicts of interest in public functions, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 2 April 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, they did not vote two out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law governing the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on loans for economic development, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 2 April 2004, should be put on the agenda of the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Fund Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 April 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, against, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 April 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 April 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. He did not vote for 126, one of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 April 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments be put on the agenda of the National Assembly on 2 April 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. He did not vote for 126, one of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Goran Paunovic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, based on members 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed a joint review on: Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of the Republic of Serbia on Loans for Industrial Development, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Guarantee Fund and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia (points 2, 3 and 7 of the proposed agenda), and a joint principled review on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Financial transactions, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Taxation on Use, the Sticking of Goods and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia (paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of the proposed agenda). Does MP Goran Paunovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. He did not vote for 126, one of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Dn e v n i r e d : 1. Proposal for a law on preventing conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a law on regulation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on loans for economic development, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Fund Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxation on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 8. Termination of duties, i.e. the resolution of the holders of judicial functions (additioned on 19 April). Since proposals have been accepted for the draft acts of the established agenda to be considered by an urgent procedure, the committees responsible, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports during the session. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Before the first point, I'd like to inform you that we're under Article 38(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have been informed that Bojan Pajtic, a member of the parliamentary group for the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, was authorised for the first time, in the signing of the parliamentary group president Boris Tadic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests in the conduct of Public Functions (principle search) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milos Aligrudić, Emilia Krstić and Dusan Proroković, Ksenija Milivojević, Željko Ivanji, Marko Krstin, Miroslav Janković, Vojkan Tomić and Boris Karaičić, Milan Dimitrijić, Svetislav Krstić, Jovan Todorović and Milan Nikolić, Milan Nikolić, Zoran Krasić, Natasa Jovanovic, Nikola Novaković, Momir Marković, Slobodan Vučović, Zlatan Jovanović, Dragan Čolić, Aleksandar Đorđević, Vojislav Milajić, Mita Avramović, Momar Marković, Duban Proroković, Slobodan Pajović, Žarko Korać, Leila Ruždić-Trimirović, Aleksandar Radosavić and Aleksandar Radosović, Mirožović, Mira Žović, Mirožan Žović, Dragažan Žović, Dragić, Dragač, Dragić, Dragić, Dragnović, Dragnović, Drag, Dragnović, Dragnović, Dragnović, Drag, Drag. National MPs Emilija Krstic and Dusan Prorokovic, in writing, have informed that they are withdrawing all amendments they have submitted to the bill. The amendments to be submitted until the start of the original search will be sent to you during the session. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. There's no proposal for a longer debate. Since the total time of the debate in principle for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of the debate is as follows, according to the parliamentary groups: 1. Serbian Radical Party MP group, one hour, 38 minutes and 24 seconds, 2nd. Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group, one hour, three minutes and 36 seconds, 3. Parliamentary Group Democratic Party – Boris Tadic, 44 minutes, 24 seconds, 4. Group G17 plus, 37 minutes and 12 seconds, 5. The Serbian Renewal Movement Group – New Serbia, 26 minutes and 24 seconds, 6. Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, 26 minutes, 24 seconds. Members who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs, five minutes each, on the basis of Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Zoran Loncar, Minister of State and Local Self-Government, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1552	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I cannot begin this item of the agenda differently except by saying that I have great pleasure in being able to present in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia just like this bill, whose aim is to prevent conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions. And not just in that colloquial speech. I am pleased with the team before, since the election promise of all those parties that are forming today to the government of the Republic of Serbia was precisely this bill in 2000, at least those parties that existed at the time. We are now in 2004 at the beginning of the new government's mandate to propose what we promised a month ago here, at the time of the presentation of the programme and at the election of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It was then promised that one of the government's basic programme definitions would be a decisive fight against corruption and organised crime and that one of the first laws would be the law to prevent conflicts of interest. It is precisely the law on the agenda today, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm familiar with the fact that a lot of amendments to this law have been made before this session began. I think it's one of the quality procedures for adopting this law. It is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing this law, but this should be our law and your law, because the conflict of interest that needs to be prevented in the exercise of public functions is indeed the largest number of officials appointed and appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also you, ladies and gentlemen, are also you. So I hope that many of these proposals, and only some of them I have had the opportunity to get to know, will be able to fit very well into this law and contribute to a much better quality of this law. I've seen that there's a lot of quality suggestions for this little time that I've had before the session began. The proposals are high quality, and a lot of them are acceptable and come from both the order of parliamentary groups supporting the government and from the order of parliamentary groups representing the parliamentary opposition, because it seems our goal is the same, to find the best legal solutions today in this law that will make it impossible for years to arise, which is the emergence of a conflict of public and private interest by those who have been entrusted with responsible public functions. Let me present to you as soon as possible only some of the solutions in the draft text of this law. Before investing in concrete solutions, I want to give you information that you know how real this text of the law is. The very text of the law rests on the respect of all the basic principles prescribed by the most important international documents that regulate this area. It is a resolution by the General Assembly of the Security Council called "A Action Against Corruption and the International Code of Conduct of Public Officials", in 1996 and two recommendations. It is one of the recommendations of the OECD Council called "Introduction of Greater Ethics in Public Administration", in 1998, and the second is the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe's 2000 Code of Conduct. Also, in drawing up this bill, the government has also taken into account comparative experiences, and not only the experiences of those democratic countries that do not have such a big problem with this issue, as we do, but the experiences of some transition countries that have previously decided to regulate this issue legislation. The bill itself is, as you had the chance to see, very short. It contains only 36 members, but I think you'll agree, it's very clear and accurate. The law lays down, above all, the concept of conflict of interest, and the conflict of interest implies such a situation where the official covered by this law performs his or her function and makes decisions under the influence of private interests, whether these private interests are individual or collective. The functions that are subject to the protection of this law are quite wide-ranging. All levels of the territorial organisation of the government are covered in us, not only this republican level at which this law is passed, but also the province and local level. The specific officials at these levels covered by this law are all those officials who come to their functions by choice, appointment, or appointment. It is the officials at the head of the authorities of all these territorial levels of government, as well as public enterprises. I must say, a large number of amendments concern the fact that this law does not cover function holders in public institutions. The government is determined to root out corruption in public institutions and is aware that there are problems. However, because of the effectiveness of this law, we did not want to include these officials at this time. This is a system law to prevent corruption. New acts will be followed very soon, and one of the first acts to follow will concern officials headed by numerous public institutions in the Republic of Serbia. I need to draw attention to article 6 of this law regarding banned shops. The bill went through a method of emulation, and even in nine points, all the actions that represent banned actions for officials within the meaning of this law have been widely counted. Also, I would like to draw attention to Article 8 of this law concerning the obligation to transfer management rights to certain undertakings that may have public office holders in the Republic of Serbia at the time of appointment. If this law, which I am convinced of, is passed by a vast majority of votes in this assembly, will have the obligation to transfer management rights to non - associated persons within a 30 - day period of time. Related persons who also have a conflict of interest, if done within the meaning of this law, are the closest relatives of the officials. In addition to a spouse or an extramarital mate, the blood relative enters along the straight line, along the lateral line with the second degree and the Tabian relatives, ultimately with the first degree. This law, as you have also noted, prescribes something that has not been foreseen so far, which is to limit membership in the boards of directors of public enterprises. Therefore, it does not exclude it for all public officials, but limits it to a maximum of one membership on boards. Then, this law introduces what is a complete newspaper in our legal system, as well as in political life. It commits all officials to register property, from you MPs who are directly elected by citizens, through us ministers who have been elected by most of the votes of you here today, to all local officials, municipal and city officials. So this law introduces the so-called law. Immigrant card. The obligation to report assets does not concern only officials, but also all related persons within the meaning of this law, so those types of relatives that I mentioned earlier, which, together with the official, can contribute to the achievement of conflicts of interest. The property report is required by officials to submit within 15 days and regularly, at least once a year, during the duration of their post, at the latest by 31 January of the current year for the previous year. The obligation to submit a report exists also after the end of the function and is proposed to last for two years, so that there is no conflict of interest while the official performs the function, and that it occurs, as is usually the case, after the end of the function and that then all the wealth that the functioner has acquired thanks to the performance of his function is seen. There is a register of property and a register of property in the so-called so-called property. The property card will be run by a competent state authority, which I'll tell you about a little bit later. We took care of something that is an international standard when it comes to the property map, which is to protect the privacy of all state officials who have an obligation to report their property. The obligation exists not only for officials, but for all these connected persons with it, but property card data can only be used for the purpose prescribed by law. Of course, there is an exception for those revenues that officials make on the basis of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the province, or the city, so where the fees are received from the funds that citizens make for their funding. These data, according to that rule, must be made available to all citizens who want to. As far as gifts are concerned, the adoption of this law is forbidden for all public officials in Serbia to receive gifts. It is explicitly stated which types of gifts must not be received. It is about money, things, rights, services performed without adequate compensation and any other benefit given to or promised to a functionor or a connected person in connection with the performance of a public function, personally or through another person. Of course, there's an exception here too. This exception concerns convenient and protocol gifts, whose value does not exceed 3000 dinars. Otherwise, the official is obliged to report such a gift, an offer of such a gift, and a reception, to the authority whose head is and to the committee responsible for the implementation of this law. In terms of this law, he is also obliged to warn the gift giver that by receiving a gift greater than the law prescribed by 3,000 dinars, the present will at the same time become property of the Republic of Serbia. The authorities responsible for implementing this law are differently regulated, depending on the territorial level to which the official belongs. As far as the Republic level is concerned, it is predicted that there is a republican committee, for the province level, and for the local levels of municipalities and cities, municipal committees. The committees will represent independent and independent bodies, whose members will be selected differently, but they will have to fulfill one basic property, to be personalities of exceptional moral integrity. It is predicted that the Republic Committee has nine members and that they are chosen differently. Three members of that committee should elect the Supreme Court of Serbia from the ranks of graduate lawyers, who are particularly expert in the most relevant areas of law, when it comes to assessing conflicts of interest, which are criminal law, civil law, economic and administrative law. Five members of this committee would be elected by you MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, from a list of candidates who would count a total of ten candidates, proposed by SANU. And one candidate would be elected by the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers. The members of the board would elect one person who would serve as chairman of the committee and whose term of office would be one year, and the mandate of the board members is five years, without being able to be re-elected in that committee. Of course, the conditions that must be met by each of the members of that committee are prescribed: board members should not be members of political parties and would also be subject to all these rules under this law concerning all other public officials. I'd also like to draw your attention to the procedure, i.e. the way in which the process of assessing the existence of a conflict of interest is initiated. The right of the initiative to launch this procedure is quite wide-ranging. Of course, there was a basic possibility that he would launch an ex-officio, so according to his official duty, but it was also given the possibility that he would be launched at the request of a directly senior elder of officials whose suspicion of the existence of conflicts of interest is, then any application of a legal or natural person, or even anonymous applications. I think the special value for officials who fall under the provisions of this law is the possibility that this procedure should be initiated at the personal request of each functionor. This will be possible if all the officials covered by this law, in the event of unwarranted attacks carried out in public or suspected of misusing their own position at the expense of private interests, justify their honor before these independent and professional bodies. The measures which may be laid down by the provisions of this law, in the event of an existence of interest, are not legal in nature. There are legal sanctions in our legal system, but they are regulated by the provisions of other laws - criminal laws, the Law on Bond Relations, etc. There are two measures, an irregular nature, which can be expressed by the committee responsible for breaching the provisions of this law, which is a sunny warning, and a second, much stricter measure, public publication of the decision. The content of this decision depends on the type of officials involved, i.e. the way he came into office, the choice, the appointment or the appointment, so it can be a public publication of the resolution recommendation, then the public publication of the recommendation to resign and publicly publish the decision that the official has violated this law. The consequences are, see for yourself, moral and political nature by functionor. There is also the obligation of this committee to implement laws or these committees at different territorial levels of the government to report once a year on work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. when it comes to the provinces of the province, the municipalities and the city - the municipal or city hall, by 1 March at the latest for the previous year. This law, as you have seen, takes effect, in accordance with constitutional solutions, eight days from its adoption. The main objective of this law is to create a legal or regulatory framework to prevent a conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions in the Republic of Serbia. Of course that's not enough. It will be necessary that, on the basis of the provisions of this law, all of us who are holders of public functions actually act in practice. I hope that there will be these committees as competent, independent and professional bodies to take care of it. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for now, I only want to tell you so much. I will remain here throughout the debate; I will be present here; I am prepared to answer any question to you and to accept any amendments that contribute to raising the quality of this joint job on behalf of the promoter, regardless of the party membership of their applicants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1553	Thank you. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ) The representative of the committee responsible is Milos Aligrudić. He doesn't want to. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 89. ... What? Mr. Pitiæ asked for a word, I'm sorry, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1554	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on preventing conflicts of interest is seen by the DS parliamentary group as a continuation of a set of anti-corruption laws that have been passed over the past three years. So, after the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, the Law on the Budgetary System, the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration, the Customs Law, the Law on Tobacco, today lies before us a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. So we continue the practice of this Parliament to fight corruption as a phenomenon in public authority and what our suggestions are, which is contained in our amendments, is to fight this evil in a way that will be strictly, well-organised, in a way that the provisions of the law will be applicable. We think that in this way the defined organization is being diverged, so 180 independent and independent bodies are being established in municipalities. There are several problems in that sense. When local self-governments, or municipalities, defined by political party representatives, are elected by members of municipal committees, then we are in a situation that these committees will be politically structured. Here we do not have this extrapartial part that we have in the proposal of the Republic Committee where the Supreme Court, the Bar Association and the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts propose members, but we have a situation that we will have politicized committees at the local level, which will be at the will of a certain congregation majority at the municipal level, depending on how this congregation majority is structured. There is a danger of the application of this law being politically motivated and politically colored, which certainly shouldn't happen, and in that sense we have amendedly intervened and we invite you to support the amendments that we have submitted. In addition, there is a problem of establishment, so we do not have a clearly defined establishment of municipal committees, i.e. the way they are structured, we do not have defined proposings and a problem arises with the criteria of membership with municipal committees and the completion of criteria and for membership in the Republic Committee. So we have criteria in relation to those members he proposes, or elects the Supreme Court, but among those proposed by the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, we simply do not have until the end to determine whether these criteria for the years of work, do they relate to competence in certain areas, and that is clear to us. We have proposed that all three levels of government (so, legislative, executive and judicial authority) be represented in this Republic Committee, in terms of proposing a person who will be members of the Authority. With respect to the competence of its members, it is simply in technical terms that the question arises whether SANU will be able to respond in an adequate manner to the obligation that is before it as a proposing. The obligation is to fight all together in a highly professional way, so all the authorities and all kinds of authorities, against corruption, or potential corruption, because this law prevents and does not sanction corruption, but cuts the root, or the possibility of corruption. In that sense, a much better solution would be an organ with a high professional composition that would practically be centralized, because there is a need for centralised for the reasons that I have stated, to monitor the problem of conflict of interest at the level of the entire Republic. We think it's too expensive to apply this law, and in that sense, we have proposed some amendments. The Republic Committee has nine members and provides for seven average earnings. The municipal boards have, or being somewhere, 169 have municipalities, province committees are being set up, so about 1,000 people in the Republic of Serbia are doing the job. If the criteria are followed, there may be bigger criteria somewhere, higher incomes than we have on the Republic Committee, we may find several thousand average salaries (so that's one industry, it's one huge factory) isolated from the budget for the work of these committees, and the only sanction for the existence of conflicts of moral interest. It is common in other countries' practices that, besides moral sanctions, therefore, public warnings, we have a public recommendation here for resolution, there is also monetary, or material sanctions, if there is a violation of the provisions of the law. Therefore, if someone was a member of the Management Board and was not allowed under the law to be a member of a certain board of directors, then that amount that he obtained on that Management Board is obliged to return to the budget. This type of sanctioning exists in parallel law, and we suggest that this type of sanctioning be introduced too, so that the law could intervene much more strongly, because unfortunately in Serbia, the sanctions of public recommendation or the public calling of one official are constantly spread by one day from many media, and it seems to me that this is not a sanction that can cause too much fear in persons who are determined to break, or to enter into a conflict of public interest. As far as the board of directors are concerned, I think we should be very clear here. We have suggested that the possibility of officials being members of the board of directors be abolished. So we must be decadent, because there is no reason for ministers and public officials, even MPs, to be members of the boards of directors. It's just that when we introduce that restrictive category, then there's no reason not to go to the end and say that membership on the board of directors is not compatible with the ministerial function, because a member of the board of directors of a small company or EPS, a small company at the level of local self-government, a public enterprise, perhaps communal. But regardless, the essence of the great role that officials play both at the level of the executive authority in the Republic and in the province and at the local level is that it is compatible with the role of the management boards. In that sense, we suggest that such a possibility be abolished entirely. The recommendations of the Council of Europe, the World Bank, the OECD, among other things, have been made to give the body, i.e. an organisation that is fighting conflicts of interest, an educational function. So, when we're already acting preventively, then there's got to be a possibility of training, or training these, over 1,000 people who are going to be dealing with identifying conflicts of interest, sanctioning conflicts of interest; 1,000 people are a huge number. The conflict of interest is not a clear category, it is not clear to the general public, and it is certain that there are no 1,000 people in Serbia at the moment who would be sufficiently trained and able to do this job in a sufficiently quality and professional way and therefore, among other things, we suggest that the number of bodies, or committees to do this job be reduced and it will be centralised, and that is the only way we will be effective. This is how we come into the situation, as with the Law on the Investigation of the Origin of Assets, which we had twenty or thirty years ago, that it is very strong from the declarative definition that we should examine the origin of the property and end up on several cases that are most marked and that this law is not consistently implemented until the end. If we introduce an asset card obligation for executive and legislative authority, then there is no reason not to do so with judicial authority. So, one thing is that the exception of judges, one is those institutes that are covered by other laws, and the other is the fact that corruption, unfortunately, exists in the judiciary, as well as in the executive, at least in the legislative authority, I suppose, because of the character of that authority, and we think that the publication of the property map of the court authorities would simply be logical. So, aside from the exception, to the side of what is within criminal laws or criminal procedural legislation, but this is something that would certainly help curb corruption, namely the conflict of interest at the level of our judiciary. We, as a Parliament club, have proposed these amendments in this regard. I agree that this debate should not be politicised, but should be based on an attempt to reach a law that would be more applicable, I fear that it is not as applicable as defined; therefore, to be cheaper in application than is foreseen by the bill. I call on all parliamentary groups to support our amendments in this regard and call on government representatives to support our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1555	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the president of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1556	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, of course the subject we are talking about should be separated from the very text of the bill. The subject, of course, is necessary, important, and we think that the preparation of this law was not in line with the importance and necessary regulation in this area. This law is more proposed and adopted in order to demonstrate a clear political position on this subject than to resolve any possible specific cases of conflict of interest. It is also possible that in this law we do not have covered some areas that can immediately be a source of corruption and conflict of interest. There's already a distraction here. I would like to say, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, that we do not understand why institutions and other organisations whose founders are states, provinces, municipalities or cities are not also subject to this law. I don't think it's necessary to say how much money there is in these institutions and organizations. Who controls them in a moral-political sense, as you say, because this is not a law on criminal sanctions, but a law that practically ends on some of the moral-political character. I also wouldn't ask why the law hasn't been passed so far. That's what the ruling majority was talking about, I think, before October 5th, but the law was not passed and was not proposed on October 6th. I once talked to one of the prime ministers from the Democratic Party, it was about this previous one, asking about it. They told the Socialists they shouldn't be board members at the time we were in power. When DOS power came, I remember well, in the session of that so-called. The temporary government was the appointment of the board of directors of the theatre. For a member or chairman of the board of directors, he was elected and appointed to the meeting of the Government of Momcilo Grubač. Then I asked the question why, and then the Prime Minister said, "Why does this practice have to start right from us?" It's about a very serious problem, a conflict of interest, which you can call whatever you want, you can use euphemisms of conflict, conflict of interest, it's about, ladies and gentlemen, stealing and corruption. This law is just a political decision that will be well taken for public opinion, but if no one is responsible for corruption and for conflict of interest, we do not need this law. I'd like to ask the minister if this law covers the head of the cabinet of the Prime Minister or the advisor of the Prime Minister. You're not going to say that in the previous term, the head of the cabinet of the Prime Minister and the advisor of the Prime Minister for National Security had no conflict of interest? It is well known that Janjusevic and Kolesar have earned money from the privatisation of the cement factory in Popovac. Is that a conflict of interest? Are they covered by this law? It's not just them, of course. If we're talking about institutions, there's health care, and we haven't covered the judiciary or the judiciary. You yourself talked about the rule of corruption. How are we gonna get in the way of that? So the authority that controls the conflict of interest is designed to ask a big question about who will control those chosen by the people, which are MPs. The one chosen by the people is controlled by someone we especially choose through some indirect institutions, institutions, organizations, etc. with seven times the average salary. Give more pay to state officials and there's no need to have a conflict of interest. It's demagogy. Demagogy is that everyone knows that state officials don't live on their salary and even in the paper they're making a series like a Spanish series, how many days an MP can last from an average salary, and everyone's saying -- who still lives on his salary. It's demagogy. Let's make a system out of which it will be clear who controls the conflict of interest. This is a nice law for the public, but Serbia's citizens will not benefit from it. We'll all benefit from this law if someone who has committed theft and corruption has criminal sanctions for it. That's why these measures are moral-political here, and I don't think it should fit if we want to conflict the interest, and there's a lot of such examples, they can't and they're not all covered by this law. We've given certain amendments in terms of making a law that's applicable. We don't need a law that will remain a letter on paper without anyone being able to apply it. You're talking about government officials here, which is a demagogy of what people say corruption will be among the MPs. These MPs here have been elected by the people, they have chosen the government, the government has appointed directors of public enterprises, and this assembly has chosen the governor of the National Bank of Serbia who has a salary of over 200,000. It's demagogy. What are we talking about here? We're not here to talk about this kind of conflict of interest. The second question here is whether someone who performs the state office, MPs, ministers, directors, will come out with ten times as much wealth as he had at the beginning of his term, and how that wealth came to be, that is the essence. It's not gonna be done with this law. It will be made a better insight into the property, better tax control, and, of course, it will be done with one desire to finally get to those who have committed the crime of corruption. Corruption is a crime as well as a conflict of interest. This is about crime, and that's why I think no example of conflict of interest has ever ended up in court. I think that the citizens of this Serbia deserve, except moral-political sanctions against those who will have a conflict of interest, and the conflict of interest is, of course, when you are a minister and your cousin you provide a job; the conflict of interest is, of course, when you provide loans from some fund to the father, mother-in-law, etc.; conflict of interest when furniture is purchased by a ministry of companies that he once owned. Is anyone going to talk about it here or are we going to bring moral-political tracts? Vladan Batic eventually said you should sign the DOS code. You don't need a code, you need law enforcement. This law is good for the public, and the Ministry of the Interior and the judicial authorities should prosecute everyone, regardless of political belongings, for what he acquired by conflict of interest and abuse of political, economic or any other function arising from the exercise of power. I didn't mention Mr. Pitiæ, since he's reporting for replication. There's no right to answer the line when I mention it, but when I insult it or if my words are misread. I was talking about something else, and if he's reporting for a replica, he needs to know on what basis he's going to report for the replica. I know he's used to getting a word before I do, but thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1557	On what basis are you answering for a word? He mentioned DS in a negative context. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1558	It is enough for Mr Dacic to read the provision of Article 97(2). Rules of Procedure, which says, "If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. "Of course, this right also has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Mr. Dacic, I know it's no offense to you to mention the SPS in the context of corruption. It is an insult to us if they mention DS in the context of corruption. I would refer only to the thesis that the problem is that no law on the prevention of conflicts of interest has been passed. First, more than 150 laws were passed in this congregation. Second, a whole series of anti-corruption laws have been passed: Public procurement, Budgetary System Act, Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, Political Finance Act, Customs Act, Duvana Act, etc. Hundreds of other laws are before this Parliament, if we wish, and we all do, it seems that we are harmonising our right to the right of the European Union. Hundreds more laws need to be passed by the next assembly of parliament. It's a pointless question why it wasn't brought in in the previous session. Over 150 have been brought in, and I hope so, and in this context many laws are in the interest of this country. Mr. Dacic, it's a little sad when you're talking about conflict of interest. Your President of the Assembly was the director of Jugopetrol, your Prime Minister was an exclusive wheat exporter, and your president's son has acquired a discotheque since carrying the crates, and probably since carrying the crates, his daughter has won the television. Please don't teach us about conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1559	Mr. Dacic, you've caused a replica. This was a replica call. You're the one who called in the Rules of Procedure? What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1560	Article 97 You are constantly giving Mr. Pitiæ the right to appear without a basis for replication. I need to inform you from the DSS that you are no longer with them in the coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1561	Mr. Dacic, you don't determine who has the basis for the replica, I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1562	I'm just saying you gave him the right to a replica without a foundation. I didn't insult him, and I didn't insult his MP group. I don't know where he recognized himself. Was Kolesar, who was head of the cabinet of the Prime Minister, a member of the DS? Was Janjusevic a member of the DS? Well, Maria Rusheta was a member of the DS. I apologize for that. Gentlemen, you have no right to give lessons to others, because in three years you have become more synonym for corruption than the previous power in 100 years. That's why you fell so fast from power, you couldn't even wait for the end of your term. Therefore, not only is it sad, but sometimes it is completely unnatural for you and others to teach this lesson. I only ask the chairman that when someone appears on the line, according to the Rules of Procedure, he has the right to report for the replica not if it is mentioned, but if something offensive has been said about his party or MP group. That's what it says in the Rules of Procedure made by Mr. Pitiæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1563	You have no right, Mr. Pittice. On what basis are you looking for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1564	He misread my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1565	Please don't abuse a pay phone for your interparty problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1566	I thank Mrs. Chairman, and I really won't. When I pointed out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I listed which member of the Rules of Procedure and read it. Mr. Dacic is obviously not enough capacity to memorize the Rules of Procedure and quote it correctly. I ask him to do as I do, since I can't teach him by heart, I wear it and read what the Rules of Procedure says. If Dacic thinks that from Dragan Tomic, Mirko Marjanovic, Zivko Šoklovakki and others there are more symbols of corruption, then it serves the honour of his party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1567	Mr. Dacic, on what basis are you answering? You don't have a word, I didn't give you my word, so get off the phone, so you don't get a warning. I'm just warning you for the first time, and next time, you'll get a warning, and now go ahead. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic. Tell me, which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1568	Mr. Pajtic has spoken offensively of another MP. It's a member of the Rules of Procedure who speaks of insults. I think that's a 100. I don't think this is even about the right of someone to de-compress. I just want to draw attention to the fact that you don't give a word when he abuses Mr. Pitiæ right to the replica you give him and you don't give us. He insulted another MP here, talking about some of the capacities that someone has or doesn't have. As for you gentlemen, your capacity is well known. You made it all up, and you voted from Bodrum and Bane Ivkovic sat in front of Ceda Jovanovic and I don't know, maybe one of your best friends, Mr Pajtic, and that one of your closest friends and associates should now be held accountable because he forged the vote for Neda Arneric. So don't insult others, take a look at yourself. After all, do not think more of yourself than the people think of us. As far as we're concerned, who told you to stop some of our thieves from being arrested? Why didn't you arrest them? Because you needed them, and you worked with them after October 5th. They and you, fortunately, are no longer in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1569	The word is Mr. Goran Paunovic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry to interrupt this interesting debate. However, Mr Dacic and Mr Pajtic had the opportunity, as authorities in this country, one ten years, one three years, to put such a law on the agenda right now. Today, instead of absolutely welcoming this fact that finally one government and one assembly are crossing this Rubicon and finally deciding to take a step towards a fundamental fight against corruption, I don't expect them to accuse each other. I'm sure this could take all day, even more than that, and we probably wouldn't have exhausted all the charges we'd have at each other's expense. I'd like to say that this law, like no law, is ideal. There's a lot I believe following the laws will solve. However, the very will of both the government and the parliamentary majority in this parliament to put it on the agenda is absolutely commendable. I would not agree that this is a continuation of the fight against corruption, unfortunately, only this law begins a fundamental fight against corruption in this country. Of course, it is necessary to bring a whole series of anti-corruption laws, and I believe it will happen within the next few months. Only then will we be in a situation to take seriously the problem of corruption in our country. There is no country in the world that has no problem with corruption. However, Serbia was simply suitable for corruption and it did not begin in the 1990s or 2000s, it began much earlier and instead of the law on preventing conflicts of interest we always had a harmony of the private and public interest of public officials, and it did not bother anyone. It was always meant as something normal and as something that is meant when someone comes to power. We just want to stop this practice from now on and finally stand in the way of corruption. Of course, not with the expectation that corruption can be completely stopped, it is not possible anywhere, but simply to limit the framework where corruption can develop. This law, I said, has its shortcomings. We have submitted certain amendments. This law has complicated mechanisms, especially the choice of a Republic committee. On the one hand, it is difficult at this time to consider some better alternative than the one offered, precisely because this mechanism allows for a very high degree of independence of the Republic Committee and therefore it is good for this mechanism to remain in the proposed way. It may not be the happiest solution, ideally, for the Serbian Academy of Science to be just one of the proposings, but it is simply difficult to find an independent body that can make a similar proposal. What I would say is adorning this law to the greatest extent, it's just bringing this law down to a local level. Serbian citizens know very well that corruption is everywhere. Unfortunately, corruption is most often represented in our municipalities, at local level, and it is good that this law is exactly by vertical means lowering jurisdiction and frameworks for its application. So, the law on preventing conflicts of interest is the first essential anti-corruption law and I can only congratulate the government for having the power to finally put it on the agenda in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1571	According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has been preparing hard and hard for this session, although we have received material before the maintenance day. We've written over 40 amendments to this bill of yours. But we're not going to provide you with a working quorum, you're having difficulty functioning your coalition. The assembly session was scheduled today, didn't start on time. Your difficulties and your relationships must be solved, so I'm notifying you that there is obviously no sufficient number of identification cards under the log system. It is your duty, Miss Krstic, to determine the quorum by Article 94. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1573	I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue to work, so I ask you to establish a quorum. Here you go. Since we have a quorum, we continue to work. I ask, does any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Tell me on what basis. (Ivica Dacic: The memory of the party. ) He mentioned the party, but not in an offensive context. I'm sorry, there were no offensive words and you have no right to a replica. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1575	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 82(4) All MPs who enter the O.R. are required to insert their MP cards into their units or go outside.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1576	I ask all MPs to perform their identification using the card. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Men of Michael: Let the gentlemen put in the cards or let them go out.) Please respect the Rules of Procedure, which is Article 82(4) I'd like a little order, please. I ask the MPs of the SRS to respect a member of the Rules of Procedure that they must be identified when entering the O.R. Please respect that member of the Rules of Procedure, which is Rule 82. I ask the service to count the MPs. Since the count found that 76 MPs are present in the O.R., I am setting a break of up to 1600 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please let us determine if we have a quorum and please insert your cards into the identification units. I find that we have a quorum for continuing work, and I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? He doesn't want to. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups, as well as those who are not members of any parliamentary group: Meho Omerovic, the SPO-NS parliamentary group, the SPS parliamentary group, the G17 Plus group, the DSS parliamentary group, the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group. I give my word to MP Meji Omerovic, and after that, MP Dusan Petrovic. You have five minutes under Article 89. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1578	I thank the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, judging by the fact that there was a bile debate between the heads of parliament on this bill, the impression is that this is a very, very important law. However, if we look at the fact that for the third time we are barely putting together a quorum to open the debate in the principle of this law, I am afraid or can get that impression, I hope wrongly, that someone does not care that this law is adopted as soon as possible by the Republic of Serbia. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that this law is necessary, better ever than ever -- says our people, and I truly share the belief that this is one of those laws that belongs to the set of anti-corruption laws, and it is good that today it is in front of Serbian parliamentarians. We know that this law has long been prepared and Minister Loncar is right when he says it is based on the principles of international documents adopted on the exercise of public functions. We know that the past government had a proposal similar to the law, and we know that DSS colleagues also had a bill. So we finally got something we really need to adopt as soon as possible. In this context, I think it is worth pointing out that this law is particularly important for countries that are in transition, so for countries that are burdened, and experience has shown this to be a high degree of corruption. I think you'll all agree with me that in Serbia, unfortunately, the situation with corruption is such that we come to the top of countries where corruption is at the dominant stage. That is why Social Democratic Party MPs support this bill. However, what we do not support and what we think is wrong is a fact, precisely because of this importance and this degree of political consent to have such a law passed, to be delivered to the Serbian parliament by emergency procedure. What's urgent is one bad thing. The other bad thing is that Serbian parliamentarians, some of the predecessors and pointed out by law, only on Monday, 48 hours before the assembly session, received material, or a bill. I think it's a bad practice. It's a bad practice, especially since this is the law we've been waiting for and which has been long prepared. The MPs got the text on Monday, and I think for two reasons it's bad as it is in a hurry, as an ordinary man would say, delivering material and such an important law. It is the first to concern ourselves, the MPs that Serbian citizens have chosen. We don't have enough time to prepare one of these serious laws. The second reason, and it seems much more important to me, and the lack of preparation of this law, is that because of this short term we were not able to as citizens of Serbia, and above all I mean the general public, and especially the professional public, we are in a position to have a public debate. At least what we expected, it is that after the presentation of this law a debate is opened in the professional part of the public that would consider all aspects of this law and its realization through the future. Most importantly, we would be able to hear from very professional and competent people and in what way we could avoid the traps that the countries in the environment had fallen into, and that similar laws had passed. I will also refer to three members of the proposed law, and I mean Articles 6, 12 and 19. In Article 6, it is in points 1), (2) and (5), in the opinion of the Social Democratic Party MPs, it is indeed unclear how these actions are established, which are prohibited by officials listed in the draft law. Those standards must be perfectly clear. From what is stated in the bill, it is not clear to us and therefore we think that there is a possibility for different interpretations, which is not good. So what are the special rights that possibly some of the officials who fall under this law could abuse. I guess they thought they were illegally affecting the possible implementation of a procurement process specifically. So, does the promoter want to transfer some powers to the officials in the administration? That was also said by a few of my predecessors. I think we're entering a dangerous precedent; I mean, there's a fear that we're going to have a corrupt administration that doesn't come under the influence of this law. Someone said with the right that the members of the tender committees tomorrow - the day after tomorrow will not belong to those people who fall under the influence of this law. In Article 12, very interestingly, in a member who speaks of the submission of an asset report, except that the official is obliged to submit a report to the committee on his assets and incomes within the next 15 days of the date of the appointment or appointment, on the property of a spouse or an out-of-marriage friend... (President: Time. I'll be done soon... And there's no mention of godmothers around here. You know, in Serbia, the godmother is a very important institution. Sometimes she gets over family ties. It's not the best button, it doesn't say our people for nothing, and it is therefore very interesting that, let's say, we can get into a situation where the government of Serbia can appoint as the director of some public enterprise or institution of a man whose godfather and how it has to do with the company. I think it's very important that in this law in some way the godmother category is treated through so-called. connected faces. Article 19, in my opinion, is very indicative of how the composition of the Republic Committee is determined. The composition of the Republic Committee is, according to what the motionor has provided, completely unclear. You have a situation that, let's say, this committee can, in my opinion and the opinion of the SDP MPs, turn into some kind of political commissary. What do I mean? In this way, the Republic Committee is left with the possibility that political volunteerism can be interpreted as who broke this law and who falls under it. For example, the Republic Committee has nine members, and three elect judges of the Supreme Court, one-choice Bar Association, and watch Article 2, quote: "The remaining five members are elected by the National Assembly, on the proposal of SANU, from a list containing ten candidates. " (Chairman: I warn you of a time-out. I'll be done in 20 seconds. Why does the SANU Proposer give more candidates than the number elected, while the Supreme Court and the Bar Association directly select the number of members of the Republic's committee? By the same criteria, say, some important institutions, such as the Football Alliance of Serbia-Montenegro or others, can also propose to the Assembly some of the candidates for the future committee? So it's totally unclear why different arches are applied to the Supreme Court, the Bar and SANU. Why didn't you just say that the Supreme Court also proposes six of which are selected three, that the Bar of Lawyers propose two of which is one of them and that SANU proposes ten of which are selected five. That's it. Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry about the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1579	The People's MP Dusan Petrovic has the word, followed by the MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1580	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, is no doubt that the public life in Serbia and its promotion require the adoption of one of these laws. That's not controversial, and I don't think any of the MPs who took the word today have shown it in a different way. The question is, indeed, whether this law, as proposed, with all the important institutes it envisioned, will allow for this improvement and recovery of public life in Serbia to indeed come. I'd like to draw attention to a few aspects. In my opinion, the greatest lack of this law and, if adopted, the practices that arise from it will be the incompetence of the largest number of committees, which are designed to decide on issues of eventual establishment or procedures that should lead to the establishment of conflicts of interest. Namely, as is also said here several times, except for a republican committee that will find lawyers, but of all these lawyers, and I would underline that, only one must have the qualifications necessary to perform a judicial or legal function, so he must have passed a judicial exam. It may occur that no other of the nine members of the Republic's committee as the highest body to deal with the state in this area have passed a judicial examination and that it cannot work in a court of law. The matter to which committees will deal is the classical matter of criminal proceedings and criminal material rights, not only criminal, but also criminal and disciplinary proceedings which will of course have their specificities. But it can happen easily, and it will certainly happen in practice that these committees deal with and determine the facts that can represent the markings of crimes. It is very bad if such procedures are done by persons who are not competent to deal with such matters. I would like to show you the proposal that Ljuba Davidovic made to the National Assembly in 1926. The draft anti-corruption law provides for the establishment of such cases and, of course, by giving sanctions on the dealings of the judge and prosecutors of the then courts and the state prosecutor's office. In 1926, then, the legislators had a pretty clear awareness of the need to deal with such issues by those qualified to do so. As it is necessary for people to be treated by doctors, it is necessary that criminal procedures, however unusual they are, be dealt with by qualified lawyers and have adequate, adequate knowledge, which has been confirmed among other things not only by the law school, but also by a passed judicial exam. A more difficult case than the Republic Committee is, of course, rural committees and committees that local congregations should educate. These committees can be fully composed of laymen, and we know that the parliamentary majority everywhere according to their hearing, taste, skill, intensity and everything in what defines politics determine the different compositions of different bodies. We can expect that thus established members of these committees who have no legal knowledge and are politically defined, although they must not be, or may not be, members of political parties, to a large extent fully devalue the potential effects that this law should produce. This is what I think is bad in Article 19, and I think that this law should be significantly improved in this respect, so that it can produce in real life what we all want here, which is that the degree of corruption is reduced to those standards that exist today in the EU and that Serbia is a country where corruption will no longer be a significant problem. Of course there's a question and sanctions that committees can impose. And, the parallel solutions should certainly be taken into account, and I think, and hopefully, at least, the Ministry and the Government as promoters had an insight into the impact that the bodies of this kind in the countries of Western Europe have had and what effects they have managed to achieve. What I think is an undeniable deviation from the important trends in this area is that the law unfortunately does not foresee any institute that would deal with the prevention of corruption. This is a law which deals exclusively with procedures that should determine the facts that, if they represent a conflict of interest, will lead to sanctions being imposed as provided for in the draft law. At this moment, the prevailing interest zone in Western Europe is the education of MPs, the education of high-ranking officials, education of ministers, deputy ministers, persons who exercise executive authority. The achievements made in Western European countries are such that this preventive action carried out by the state has led to a major reduction in the number of cases which would then be dealt with as a repressive apparatus by those bodies that are intended for this law. The political aspect of this law -- unfortunately, the government has shown that it does not act as a synchronised mechanism, and the fact that budgets for the introduction of this law into legal and real life are not foreseen. On a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the presence of Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister, this parliament recently adopted the 2004 budget, and there is no item in the budget that should allow the creation of a republican committee, the creation of the administration needed to serve the republican committee, which would simply create basic, realistic assumptions that this law could be applied. As I said, it is a worrying fact and the DS naturally expects an answer from the minister, which would give us an explanation of how this law without budget rebalance can be introduced into legal and real life. On the other hand, a large number of people who will be board members by decision of local self-government will also have to exclude or take part of the money needed to function those local committees from the budget. Given the fact that the 2004 budget of cities and municipalities has been reduced by four billion compared to the 2003 budget, I think local self-government has been brought into an even more difficult position than we had in 2003, and that's not a good thing. What is also very interesting is the fact that one of the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Velimir Ilic, as minister of capital investment, became a member of one of the companies recently privatised. It is not clear to me that the ministers do not communicate with each other and why someone did not draw attention to Mr. Ilic that the government is preparing a proposal for this law, under which Mr. Velimir Ilic cannot be on the board of directors of enterprises that has recently been privatised. Also, I am very interested and I hope that we will get a quick answer to whether Mr. Tijanic has cut off his business relations with the BK group and with the TV he has worked on before. If this law comes into force, we will surely get an answer to that question very soon. I would also like to know what will happen to Mr Bogoljub Lazic, who is an assistant to the above-mentioned minister of capital investment and who was one of the directors of the BK company. He now deals with telecommunications issues in Serbia and, imagine, he will deal in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia by identifying the facts that should show what property structure in Mobtel is. (Glasses: Is it possible? Yes, it's possible. It's sad, but it's true. As far as I can tell, the Socialists have dropped out of this House's work and I'm sorry they're not here. They've made a way out of power, yes. It is a sad fact that people who took part in the government that privatised Telekom, where today, all European police, including Interpol, cannot determine what commissions Milosevic and his associates took by selling Telekom, honoring anyone with anything to do with corruption. But the parliamentary majority in this assembly did not take it as a distraction and as a reason for this same Mr Milosevic, for his wife and for his son, who was rich in bearing fruit during his father's presidency, to vote on a law that enables them to, to a great burden and torment, Serbia's citizens, to visit each other, to exchange information and emotions. (Glasses: Theme.) If you DSS gentlemen object, you can explain it for this speaker. So, it is unnatural, but it is realistic that you are expressing regret for Milosevic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1581	Thank you. Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1582	First, Mr Petrovic, what Ljuba Davidovic wrote doesn't need you to show us now. This was to be brought to the Parliament in January 2001, so that you would propose the adoption of one such law in January 2001, so that one Deputy Prime Minister would not be sitting on seven or eight boards of directors; that local officials would not receive seven or eight tantiums each, which cost the state budget much more than aid to Hague detainees at this time. In the end, we discussed this law. You should have answered your word at that time, and not now, with later wisdom, to go out to the National Assembly and talk about something that was on the agenda last week, because, you know, in central Bosnia, our too smart people say, "Who has a later mind, doesn't keep an ass." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1583	Thank you. The word has the head of the SRS parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1584	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would ask you from the democratic bloc not to argue too much because we would like at least some kind of competition in the next election. We have heard that the minister is personally very pleased with the bill, so I suggest, Mr. Minister, that you do not bring your personal feelings here to us because the proposal could have been better. If it has already been mentioned here and by the minister that this law was the subject of their interest at the time of the campaign, then it should not have come two days before this session of the Assembly. So he could have come months ago and two months ago, because if you had so much time to write it, you should have allowed MPs reasonable time to read it, to agree or disagree with it, or to agree with it if some amendments had been accepted, which many MPs had submitted, and should have submitted amendments to this bill. In principle, it would remain an unpleasant feeling in Serbia if anyone here said it was against the law. You would use it in a media way, as you have been slowing down your machine for a few days now, so you would say that the MP who says that he is actually personally interested in this law and that he is likely to have some conflict of interest and is trying to prevent and make the law. But as you have constituted, as you have defined yourself about the control of the ministries, you yourself have provided an opportunity for this to be one of the most corrupt governments in Serbia's history. I'll tell you why. I'm not saying it is. Before you react, listen. There's a big chance it's gonna be. Because you have agreed that no one interferes with the ministry in a political party whose minister is. So now we have the minister, the deputy, the assistants, everything from the same political party. (Glass: It's not true, name someone... That's not true? Here, you want to go after the ministries? Is there anyone in these capital investments that Velimir Ilic didn't set him up? Is there anyone in the Diaspora Department from any political party other than the SPO? Don't touch me. But what we need to talk about here is because the law deserves attention, even though it's exclusively a law of good intentions. It seems to me that you've begun to propose laws to us, that you're merely giving us some of your good intentions. It is the fate and the Law on the election of MPs, which is God's way of allowing the diaspora to vote. That was a good intention, but you knew yourself that it couldn't be accomplished, so this is pretty much a good intention. I appreciate the good intentions that there is no conflict of interest in officials, set-up persons, especially in the holders of judicial functions. But Article 2 actually points to the fact that this law is aimed at only one branch, and these are the functions that function on the basis of the elections, appointments and appointments in the bodies of the Republic, the Autonomous Province, the City or the Municipality, and for judges and for appointed or appointed persons, you refer us to the laws which have already been regulated. It's as regulated in those laws as it was regulated for these officials for which we are now passing a new law, general. So this law should be written for everyone. Next, why the separation of the board to the republican, circuit, city, municipal level? Why? What a dispersion of the board, so now there will be a committee in the municipality that monitors the conflict of interest exclusively at the level of the municipality, and then we will be at the level of the autonomous province, then at the level of the Republic, so the city of Belgrade in particular, the town of Nis, the town of Kragujevac. And when that's blown up, who's going to inform who? I have seen here the duty of the Republic Committee to inform the National Assembly, but I have not seen the duty of these other committees to inform their congregations of their work. (Glasses: It says.) ) It may say, but for this short time with seven financial laws, it was hard for a man to get into everything. Next, who says there is a conflict of interest only if parents and children or tasts, father-in-laws, are interested in the work of the official. Serbia is currently ruled by godmothers. Eight godmothers currently rule Serbia. Why don't you see here that even the best men can't. Well, Coppola could now record one sequel to "The Godfather," watching only those who steal through the energy mafia. Or maybe it's not a conflict of interest? These latest NIS installations and other state-owned enterprises? And all the godmothers. When did they get close? When they started doing jobs. One was in a private company, one was a state official, got a grip, a monopoly firm. So now this one has found himself a new godfather, and that new godfather, and they've reached the head of the cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and he's the best man of one of them. Why don't you sign up here and the best man, and we'll start calling the best man. Furthermore, every time you list, as in Article 6, you risk leaving out a lot of things. If you've already listed, why haven't you separated the extent to which the injury will go, for which the injury will go unpublished, which will go to the public notice measure, which will be called upon to resign. I don't agree with the predecessor who used to say that there was some legal knowledge needed. In the conflict of interest, in conflict with morality, you do not need legal knowledge and will not be able to make this law of people who do not have to learn what morality is, as a shepherd whips sheep into a cake. Who has no morals, this law does not help him, and he who sees whether something from his point of view is right is not at all necessary to have legal knowledge, but should be a decent man and not needing him not to be a member of a political party. I'm against it. I'm against it. I'm against it. What are we, members of political parties, all dishonest? There's a pitch coming out of the hall: you are! Well, I am, you know, you just don't know how to deal with politics, everything else is clear to you, you just don't know what politics is. If you are looking for a official to fulfil Article 11, I would be very interested to know that it is a minister who is obliged to inform the authority which appointed him or her and the committee responsible, and if elected to a public office to inform only the committee responsible. The Minister is obliged to inform you when someone offers him something; and what if he does not inform you, where is the measure if he does not inform you? Does the board say, "We give you an unpublic measure?" He offered you some money, and you didn't accept the money. What if a man told you, if someone offered him something and he refused, what is he now? Pointer. Isn't it enough for you to appreciate a man because he refused, that he must be legitimate to you that he refused. Now the ministers and the MPs will come to inform the board that they refused this, and they refused it, so now we are all honest, and we all meet the requirements of this law. Property register, interesting thing. They're all obliged to report their assets and report the assets of the connected persons, it's fine. Item 2 in Article 14 says - property data reported by the official can only be used in a procedure in which it is decided whether there is a breach of the law or not; and data on other incomes and salaries are public. (President: Are you using for the next 10 minutes? Yes. Now I'm asking you, what if the paper starts to inform about the property that certain officials have reported, where the punishment for the board is where the official reports the property and that information is a secret, and it's published in the means of information. That sanction doesn't exist, because you don't even know who published it, you can't disband the whole board, because you don't know who gave the information, you can never figure out who gave the information, and it's actually going to be a treat, like this law on the detention of Hague prisoners for many people has become a treat to live up to the fate of those who drove out there. The 19th must change, must, do not involve other authorities in what I believe the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should do. What does that mean, is it fair if we are suggested by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts of those faces? What do we acknowledge that, behold, there is still someone who is upright, and the National Assembly is not upright? And now what do the judges propose to the lawyers and lawyers to the lawyers? How come it's the right for lawyers to propose lawyers, which judges don't suggest judges, which you didn't tell lawyers about, they suggest lawyers. And what do lawyers propose, and where are NGOs? This is the first time since you've come to power, for four years, that you've shut down NGOs, citizens' associations, majority unions somewhere. No courtship for all here, where is your Serbian Orthodox Church? I repeat, Article 20(2) - member of the Republic Committee cannot be a member of the political party. It is discrimination against hundreds of thousands of political parties in Serbia, it is unconstitutional. Being a member of a political party cannot deprive him of his right to be on this committee. He can't, because a judge can be a member of a political party; he who decides on the lives of others, on prison, on the confiscation of property, can be a member of a political party, and a member of a committee that utters a public and non-public warning cannot be a member of a political party. And how, whenever it comes to some honesty, you say first that you can't be a member of the political party the one you expect to be honest with. To me, the most frequent people are those who are in political parties, at least they came out publicly and said, yes, I belong to that and that political party. That's a lot more congratulatory than keeping quiet, sitting at home and not talking about who you are, or at least both attitudes are decent. The fact that someone is not a member of the political party is not at all a virtue and does not qualify him, does not rank him as a member of the state only on that basis. Article 3 - a member of the Republic Committee has the right to a monthly fee of seven average monthly earnings paid in the Republic of Serbia. How much does the Prime Minister have to pay? How much does the president of the National Assembly have? Are these the most important functions in the country? How is a member of the Republic Committee twice as important as the president of the National Assembly, how is the secretary of the Committee three times more important than the secretary of the National Assembly? What do you think of the triple salary, to make someone honest? And that member, or chairman of the board of directors, had an apprehension of 200,000 dinars four years ago, so he's not a decent man, and now the data comes in that he wasn't honest. You think an immoral man's height determines when he'll stop being immoral. If there's an opportunity here to earn 100 or 200 thousand euros, why are you giving him seven times the salary, because we're doing this for huge money, huge money. Now, these measures really are my... I'm waiting for the whole law, I'm looking for it, I'm reading the measures, and then I see there's an unpublished decision, a public decision, a warning, and then you say, everything else is regulated by Criminal Law; so let it all go to Criminal Law, why do we have to warn him unpublicly? Find out that he has violated some of the rules of Article 6(2) and you decide to give him an unpublished warning measure. It doesn't make sense, really. This is unpublic, as it is unpublic if the whole board knows what measure is said and then the newspaper will show up – the measure of unpublic warning has been given to that and that, and it will really branch out and stop dealing with what it has been up to now. There is also a measure of public publication of the recommendation that someone resigns. So we've been recommending for two months that Boris Tadic resigns, won't hear a man. The whole of Serbia is waiting for Wednesday to resolve it, rather than go as a man. The whole of Serbia is asking for someone to resign, and we are now introducing a committee that will ask him to resign. You know what power is, like saltwater, the more you drink, the more you get thirsty. What's the recommendation to resign? With some people's motto, you won't be able to get them out of your office. The measure of non-public warning (this is indeed interesting, Article 26(2) shall also be pronounced if the official is too late to comply with the obligations laid down in this law, and the decision shall set the way and time limit for compliance with this law. If the official completely refuses to comply with this law, what is the measure? What is the measure, if there is a majority in the National Assembly, so you cannot replace it, because its 22 MPs mean everything in Serbia. The five MPs used to mean everything in Serbia, but now you've raised it to 22. What is that measure when you risk a coalition partner leaving the government and the government falling? I'd throw all this out on the jurisdiction of the circuit boards and local committees. We were dealing with this law. We have amendments to this law and it would be good for the assembly majority to accept the Serbian Radical Party amendment in the voting day, we will further explain them. Whether you have most of that day or not, when there's a vote, depends on how we vote. In principle, in order for the public to know and not to comment incorrectly, we are in favour of preventing conflict of interest. We're in favour of everyone, as it happens in England when in the assembly or in the body in which he's elected, being set up to discuss Visa's company, and he has a higher card, leaving the O.R., and he won't discuss it. If a car factory is discussed and he has a car, he comes out and won't let himself have a conflict of interest, think about what he's going to do and how they're going to watch him tomorrow. If we bring company to that level, then we won't need the law. If you want the law, we have to have extra fines here. Without punishing those who deserve to be punished in Serbia, there will be no order. You can talk about Europe as much as you want, and especially about when we are a democratic country, we will enter Europe. Until there is order in Serbia, we will not be able to enter Europe. You know that very well. Many countries in the world have been seducing order by punishment. Try these unpublic warning measures, and we'll meet again to accept the measures that I'm convinced can only lead to order in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1585	The People's MP Vladan Vukicevic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law was necessary long before Serbia and, of course, if this law had been passed and passed in the Republic Assembly before, Mr Velimir Ilic would not be on the board today, and today he may be because there is no law and then there is no reason why he would not be. As for the Ministry of Capital Investment, I am obliged to say that this may be one of the few ministries in which there is no deputy minister or assistant from New Serbia besides the minister. Of course, whether it's good or not will show the time. This law has long been expected in Serbia. Serbia is a poor country with rich individuals, and many rich individuals are former politicians. Former politicians and their friends and associates. Serbia's citizens expected much from this law, and they expect much. The question is whether this law with such a criminal policy, which is more about moral criticism, will be comprehensive and will be able to prevent - and that is exactly what the citizens of Serbia want, which is necessary - robbery, thieving and, of course, unscrupulous behaviour of individuals in certain functions. In some ways, this law did not cover everything, so it can be said that it is somewhat selective. Knowing that so far no one in Serbia has responded from important and significant officials, criminal policy must be introduced into this law and must be more rigorous, stricter. Simply, there must be a provision that all those who grossly disobey their function, and we know that in some past period were not the numbers of receiving gifts of three thousand dinars, but of robbery, thieves with millions of marks, and now the euro, that such people, in addition to criminal responsibility, are banned from politics for life. This pay phone, in a way, determines the fate of the Serbian people, including ours, and certainly determines the future of the Serbian state. For these reasons, no one should criticise and take this large number of amendments, which has been tabled, as a criticism of the Government, but as a wish for this law to be corrected and a good and quality law to be made. I'd like to refer to a few members, which are members 8, 12 and 16. Article 8 shows - transfer of management rights. Believe me, as a man and as an MP, I absolutely disagree that my governing right, and I've owned a company for 18 years, should be passed on to someone and that I will show some honesty. I feel that I should continue to possess that management right, and that this law should regulate that financial inspection, police and competent authorities should come to me three, four times a year and, in the end, do more frequent checks on my business. I think that's correct. Why now, if I pass the governing right on to my wife, it's something unfair, and it's fair if I pass the governing right on to a friend of mine? I'm sure I'm not going to pass the steering rights on to someone I don't know, but to someone I know. I don't think the transfer of management rights is about getting some honesty. He who was upright will be fair and fair, and he who was dishonest can pass the governing right on to anyone, was and will remain dishonest. Of course, Article 12 says – reporting property and submitting property reports, and then saying – to a spouse, an out-of-marriage friend, blood relatives in a real and lateral line, with a second degree of kinship. I can't see, and I can't understand that, like any of the officials, I'm going to be able to get my brother who doesn't want to deal with politics, my own brother's property, and get him to show his property to someone here. No legal arguments, no legal opportunity to make him do it. How am I gonna make my father-in-law? Why would my father-in-law or my brother-in-law now have to file some reports, when a man is not involved in politics and if he is an apolitical man? Of course, me and my family are obliged to submit such a report and undergo control throughout our duties. We know for sure, and we have opportunities and we have seen that the brothers were born in court, they're being tried for property. If they're being tried for property, why would he now give some property to me and what the board's mechanism is when I say my father-in-law won't give it to me? It doesn't matter if there's a best man standing here. I think it's problematic here and it's very difficult to do in practice. Down he says, "The person whose property the functioner is reporting is obliged to provide the functioner with accurate information, and the committee responsible may, on a proposal from the officials, request that it deliver directly the information on its assets within the time limit applicable to the functioner" etc. Then he says, "Data that apply." It's taxing on what needs to be reported. Would one of you like to report how much money you've got? Well, nobody's gonna report it. He can report what's in his account, if anyone can check it out, but who's going to tell us now how much money is in his pocket and how much money is in his house? I think there's a lot of excess stuff here that needs to be thrown out. Or, for example, how much debt is there? What's important is the reception of gifts. In a way, anyone who wants to in Serbia can disavow, degrade, degrade. It wasn't this country that fell apart that someone was receiving 3,000 dinar gifts, but this country was ruined for stealing and robbing it for years. But how are we going to do it now if the official makes a wedding, and in Serbia, weddings are common, so he gets such an expensive gift. Everyone will be able to say it's a kind of bribe and there's a conflict of interest. That, in some ways, would be well - meaning objections to this law. I believe that this law is necessary for Serbia, but that as many of these amendments as possible, and I have seen them, to adopt them, to make one correct law and, of course, to exist in this law and what is called criminal responsibility. Without criminal responsibility, only by moral criticism, and Serbia has morally failed for the past 14 years, it will not be possible to pass a good comprehensive law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1587	I ask the MPs to put their cards in their homes. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let the MP of the people, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that, when I first read the proposal for this law, I was very surprised, above all by vague formulations and by the absence of concrete powers for committees, as well as appropriate sanctions. It's just that this isn't the law you promised in the campaign. This is not the kind of law citizens expected, and if, by any chance, it is voted in this form, when it begins not to apply, the citizens will be very disappointed. Through the amendments that we have submitted, the SRS has offered a completely different concept of the law on preventing conflicts of interest in performing public functions. I will try briefly (now in short, and during the debate on amendments and more concrete) to point to the shortcomings and illogicalities that abound with this law, which, by its inconsistencies, reminds the most of the lustration law and everything that has been going on around the RadioDifusing Council. Already, it can be said that this law will be remembered as an extremely expensive experiment that will cost the Republic of Serbia tens of thousands of average salaries per month. The first flaw of this proposal is that first judges of the Constitutional Court, judges of violations, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, as well as officials appointed to the bodies of institutions and other organisations whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, municipalities, the city and the city of Belgrade. It would be much better if, instead of such a partial solution, this area of conflict of interest was regulated in a comprehensive way, by one law to all officials. Furthermore, when organising a conflict-of-interest resolution committee, the establishment of a republican committee is envisaged, firstly to resolve a conflict of interest, and then to the circuit boards and, ultimately, municipal and city committees. This solution leads to the establishment of a large number of boards, as we know there are less than 200 municipalities in Serbia. This will certainly lead to a massive apparatus that will number several thousand people, which will also result in the formation of different practices in the decision-making committee, because they are, I remind, independent and independent in their work. This will lead to different decisions on the same or similar cases, i.e. for the same violation of this law, one committee on conflict of interest will issue a non-public warning, while the other will make a recommendation for resolution. In determining the circle of connected persons, one part is determined by the list of specific persons, while the other is defined by general formulation, so that each person under certain conditions can be connected if the members of the committee decide to do so, although there is no predetermined criterion for this. So, in practice, it will certainly cause problems. When submitting the property report, I said already, there is a very wide circle of faces for which officials have an obligation to report property, and there is no protection of the data that these people report. Then, there is no sanction for not reporting data. What happens if the functioner is not in good relations with one of the persons whose property is to be reported or if simply those persons do not want to give that property to anyone but, in accordance with tax laws, tax authorities? Will the official suffer any consequences? In receiving a gift, one very interesting solution says that the connected person cannot receive a gift in connection with the performance of the public function of the function of the function with which it is connected. The functioner may prove that he could not influence the behaviour of the connected person if the gift was received or that the gift was not related to the performance of his public function. One of the basic postulates in our legal system is the presummation of innocence. Through this law, the legislator introduces the presumption of guilt, because there is a compelling legal assumption that the official is guilty of behavior, i.e. receiving gifts from a connected person. This is rightly inadmissible, such as the inadmissible requirement of the officials to prove the negative fact, i.e. the absence of their guilt. As far as the composition of the Republic Committee is concerned, there are nine members, three of whom are elected by the Supreme Court judges among the graduates, particularly experts in criminal, civil, commercial or administrative law, and one is elected by the Bar. Also, there are no predetermined criteria, who and on the basis of which criteria will decide who is particularly professional in a particular area. Our experience with experts in various areas so far is very negative. Furthermore, the only criteria for proposing candidates can be personal familiarity between applicants and candidates. I don't suppose anyone from the Constitutional Court or the Bar Association is going to propose to be a member of the council of someone he's heard at the store that he's particularly professional. I guess he's going to propose to his acquaintance whose expertise he's already in advance, and then he's asking himself if these people can be objective. The next member prescribes a ban, saying that a member of the republic's committee cannot be a member of the political party. Why not? What is wrong with the members of the political parties and does the legislator want to declare them unfair and unobstructive in advance? How and in what way will you determine if any of them are members of a particular political party? Under current laws, there is no obligation to declare to anyone whether or not he is a member of the political party. Then, the salary, i.e. the monthly fee for a member of the Republic's committee, which is seven average monthly earnings paid in the Republic of Serbia, is extremely high and much higher than the salary of the President of the Republic, than the salary of the MPs, from the salary of ministers, judges, prosecutors. This is how all these people are demoted. It also degrades the President of the Republic who is an incoherent body and who is elected by several million people. The Committee will have a service that performs the professional, administrative and technical tasks necessary for the work of the Committee. The service is managed by the secretary; the secretary’s salary cannot be higher than the threefold salary of the secretary of the National Assembly. Here we have the degradation and the National Assembly and the secretary of the National Assembly. As for the measures that these committees will express, what they impose in themselves is that these measures are not mandatory and they can be said in advance that they will not be respected in practice, especially if they have in mind the way these people will be chosen, and they will probably transfer each other – this one is from that party, this one is JUL's own, and this one is DS's, I don't care about his recommendations. A measure of non-public warning, said Article 26, is pronounced by a functioner due to violations of this law that did not affect the exercise of public office. When you look at the violations of this law in Article 6, you ask the question is, is it possible for someone to do any harm without affecting the performance of the law? Is it possible that some functioner, for example, influences the acquisition of jobs or public procurement without affecting the performance of its functions. Is it possible to abuse the special rights that belong to him to perform a public function without thereby jeopardising the exercise of his public office? As for the composition of the circuit boards, as well as the municipal and city councils, there is an even worse situation here, because here absolutely no criteria are foreseen for board members. You can say that it will be professional people, both like this and like this, but the law simply doesn't say and does not oblige these people to have one day of work, nor to have one day of school before someone appoints them to this function to decide on the honor, education and fate of other people. If this law is passed, it will be used to employ a large number of people at local level, and the benefits of this law, i.e. the application of this law, will be minimal or none, especially in small and poor municipalities, where it will pose a great burden to local self-government. Just one more thing, very important, says Article 36(2), that the government, i.e. the competent authority of the AP, municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, will provide spatial, technical and other material conditions for the start of the committee's work. You haven't been able for five years, and I will remind you at this point that the application of the Law on Courts was postponed for 1 May 2007, because you were unable to find four buildings for appeals courts, and you want to convince us that for 200 committees to resolve conflicts of interest, which will be formed throughout Serbia, within 30 days you will be able to provide all these conditions. It is also an interesting question of the salaries of these members of local and rural committees, as Article 33 says that the organisation and work of regional and local committees and the position of their members are subject to the provisions of this law on the Republic Committee. When applied, given that a member of the Republic Committee has the right to compensation of seven average monthly earnings in the Republic of Serbia, an analogue member of the provincial board will be entitled to seven average monthly incomes paid in the province and a member of the local committee on seven average personal incomes paid in the municipality. In this way, when 200 boards are formed per minimum of five members, it is easy to figure out that this place will cost the Republic of Serbia more than 7,000 average personal incomes. Is this worth it? In the end, given that this law calls for morality, I would say that whoever has this law doesn't even need it, and who doesn't, this law will be no obstacle to him. You have, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one more chance to correct all this, and that is to vote for the amendments to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1589	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1590	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, firstly I would like to express my gratitude to Mr. Minister for attending the entire debate on this law, which unfortunately was not the case with the ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia during the debate on the budget recently adopted in this House. I hope that this good custom will continue to be a feature of the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The need to pass this law is not disputed. It is well given in the context of the proposal and represents a continuation of the adoption of a series of anti-corruption laws that have been passed over the past three years; therefore, we conclude that this is not the only one, and certainly not the most important anti-corruption law discussed today in the republican parliament. To remind you, public procurement laws, the budgetary system, the tax procedure, the financing of political parties, customs laws, privatisation laws, tobacco and a set of tax laws were passed in the previous period. All these laws have greatly diminished the discretionary right of people to decide on issues that are regulated by laws. Unfortunately, the current situation on Serbia's political scene has made it possible for Serbia to fully discretionary decision-making rights, in the course of the pyramidal deployment to its posts, according to which powers the minister has in his ministry, so that each ministry becomes in fact the jurisdiction of a particular political party that received the ministry. The main function of the political government is to achieve those social goals that are important for the stability and prosperity of society. The achievement of these objectives is, in its concrete form, largely related to the authority, procedures and overall behaviour of the foundation bearers. There are not many things that are so directly and convincingly disrupting the reputation of the state, as always possible abuses by political state officials. Hence, the need to establish functions for holders and to apply specific rules of conduct. These rules cannot be assumed, they must be prescribed in this respect and, to that end, this law would have grounds to be adopted, provided that certain amendments to the amendments proposed by the DS-Boris Tadic list are adopted. At critical times, such as this one, when society slowly slips into lawlessness or when the population notices that the authorities are corrupt and amoral, a savior is sought, which should be characterized by honest and moral behavior, i.e. to keep word and promises. Examples of Latin America are obvious evidence that such solutions are wrong and lead to political authoritarianism and economic reverse. The need for appropriate solutions to be introduced into this law is incontestable. In this regard, I would also make some comments and suggestions in relation to certain provisions. First of all, I want to point out that the public perceives this law as a magic wand, expecting it to be eradicated in every possible form. Unfortunately, although the public expects much from this law, there was no public debate. The public couldn't even get to know this law or give their opinion about it. Unfortunately, the MPs of the Republic Assembly were not in a position to get better acquainted with this law, because they got it too late, along with a set of financial laws, so I am afraid that the huge gaps this law has, although we consider it necessary for its adoption, will not be corrected. The concept of public function is significantly broader than the concept of functionor. The formulation in Article 2(1) under which, in the meaning of this Act under public function, the function performed by the official is not legally correct. This remark is not just a formal character. It raises the question of the circle of the person to which this law applies. It is quite unclear why the law leaves out legal holders, public prosecutors, who refer to a special law; therefore, it leaves out various institutions financed from the budget, as well as function holders in those public institutions, but it is imperative to put a public enterprise. As a rule, the public undertaking differs from other undertakings in the structure of capital and to a certain extent according to the management method. There is a finding that there is more public interest in it than in other companies. In spite of all, the public company is, however, a single business entity, not a public function, according to its characteristics. Therefore, the public undertaking is fully referred to and applied, in the area of economy, the Company Act and the Public Enterprise Act, including the responsibility of leading people in the bodies of enterprises. I don't think their responsibility is diminishing. They shall be the authorities or members of the company's body and shall comply with the applicable rules. It is also a question of whether it is justified that members of public undertakings' bodies are subject to the provisions of this law independently of who is the founder of these companies and what is the structure of their capital. Very often in practice we are witnesses and quite certain fact is that responsibility on a double track can be less determined, and therefore quite certainly and reliably less effective. As regards the outsourced, and based on the same principle, the separation of political decision-making from business and business activities, I would point out the provision of Article 9(1). Proposal. This provision provides that the official shall not be a member of more than one management or supervisory board of a public undertaking. When it comes to this problem, it is not about the burden of officials, although it is in the reasoning, because the functionator will be burdened to carry out that obligation in more than one public enterprise. It is about whether to allow or allow the intertwination of political functions and business decisions in the economy, which by their nature include handling and managing capital. The question is whether it can be established that this creates a situation where conflict of interest is not only possible, but certain. If such a possibility is allowed, if it deviates from the principle, the restriction loses its meaning. In other words, it is not decisive whether any official will be a member of one of the management boards of a large company or, for example, a member of the Management Board in two smaller enterprises. In addition to this observation, the wording of this proposal is that the law applies not only to situations where there has already been a conflict of interest, but also to situations where no public interest has been injured, but the situation in which the functioner is located can objectively lead to injury. The question remains whether such a situation is objectively created in accordance with the legal provision cited. Of course, according to this law. I believe that it is necessary to refer to the provision of Article 4(3) which determines the concept of a connected person, so that under the connected person, I quote - and any other legal or natural person who, under other grounds and circumstances, can be reasonably considered as being associated with the functionor. In the legal theory of such norms are called indefinite norms. Although they very often cannot be avoided, good legislation makes efforts to keep them as few as possible. Their interpretation, and that's why they're against it, they're incompatible with the principle of legal certainty. I'm afraid this term is not defined and objectively indeterminate. Thus, in the quoted formulation, each term is absolutely insufficiently defined. It would be justified to make an effort to amend this formulation. As for the members of the 19th and composition of the Republic Committee, I notice that there is no or no personal conditions for the selection of members of that committee. It's a failure that I also think should be corrected by amendments. The Academy of Science is and must be an institution with undeniable authority, but I don't think we're giving her any special honor or recognition if we're introducing her into day-to-day political matters, actually, current policies. Finally, I find it justified that the provisions of Articles 32 and 34 may and must be observed from the aspect of relations towards the province and its authorities, towards the city, municipalities and their bodies. For example, the provincial and local committees are obliged to comply with the regulations and opinions of the Republic Committee. It is quite clear that a strict hierarchy is being established, not a hierarchy of regulations, but, unfortunately, the hierarchy of organs. I am free to realize that it predominates the opinion that the hierarchical relationship of the organ almost never yields the expected results. Much more likely to succeed have relations where, based on the established concept, rural authorities and local self-government authorities are given a higher degree of independence. This strengthens their motivation and responsibilities, which should be primarily addressed to their congregations, which under this law have the authority and to place people on these committees. Unfortunately, and finally, this law is both objectively and subjectively inapplicable. The failures I have pointed out lead to the fact that it is very difficult and to imagine the possibility for competent congregations and authorised proposings to choose committees within a very short period of time, as provided for by the law. Before Chapter IV speaks of the means necessary for the implementation of the law, it states that there is no need to identify the funds in the budget. The law is impossible to apply without these means, since it's a huge amount of money. I will remind you that every member of the board has the right to seven average personal incomes in the Republic of Serbia, and therefore to some new budget rebalance, this law can only remain an empty letter on paper. I'm surprised that without financial structure, this law has reached the agenda of this assembly. I would like to add the fact that it is truly tragic that this Parliament, in some way, is held hostage by the self-will of certain SPS officials, who, during the previous ten-year rule, have absolutely absorbed corruption in its worst sense, and now, whether or not it has to be a matter of replication, are leaving the session so as not to take part in the adoption of a law that objectively, at this point, should be something that is significant for the Republic of Serbia if we all have enough wisdom together to accept amendments that will greatly improve the law that is right now in front of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1591	The People's Messenger Vladimir Homan has the word, and let the People's Messenger of Gordan Pop-Lazic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1592	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in 60 years, the Assembly has passed a law like this. I am pleased to be a member of Parliament who, I hope, will vote this law. The law, of course, isn't perfect. What law is perfect? But the best, though, is the law that applies. And to apply, there must be, to be brought. He hasn't been brought in yet. Anyway, the question why it wasn't brought in is we're gonna put aside for now. And this law is, whatever it is, and whether it will be corrected by amendments or not, better than a law that doesn't exist that could have been passed by the majority that existed until a few months ago. The fact that it hasn't been brought in, in the last 60 years, doesn't surprise me very much; it's no wonder for the communists that they didn't pass this law, because they didn't even think about it. But for these great Europeans, reformers, the only real remaining democratic option, they say, surprises me. They had a chance to pass the law. They promised three years ago that this law would be passed, but like a lot of promises, they didn't keep it and they acted exactly the opposite. Not only did the law not pass but their individual officials were members of six, seven and more boards of directors and received 200-300,000 dinars a month at that time. That had nothing to do with it at the time, and now this bill is being criticised. I think whoever had the chance, whoever was in most, whoever had power over the past 15 years has no moral right to criticise this law, because they had a chance to bring it in and they didn't. We hear that the proposal from 60 and more years ago, Ljuba Davidovic's proposal, was much better. They had a chance to adopt that proposal here. Unlike those, our pre-election promise was that we would pass this law at the beginning and here it is in front of parliament. As regards the provisions of this law, G17 plus is in principle also for stricter provisions, especially when it comes to participation in boards. However, since we have submitted certain amendments in this regard, and whether these amendments will be adopted or not, there is no internal decision by our party that MPs in the Assembly will certainly not be members of that single board of directors to which they are entitled. We hear from the opposition here today that they are in the principle of passing such a law, because they know it's opportunistic to be against, yes. However, we have been witnessing all day today that the opposition is preventing the work of this parliament by, as in the old good custom, drawing cards, not giving a quorum or anything like that. So the opposition in this House, ladies and gentlemen, is against the passing of this law, no matter what they say. As for some provisions of the law, only briefly, Article 9 states that the official must not be a member of more than one board of directors or supervisory board, and our amendment will be in the sense that the words "more than one" of the amendments, means that this does not exist, that he cannot be a member of any board of directors. As for wages, there are also amendments, and I hope that it will be corrected so that there will be no such large amount for the salaries of employees on those committees. And when it comes to sanctions, these sanctions are moral, warning measures, measures to publish recommendations for resolution, recommendations to resign, etc. These are all, of course, moral sanctions and this law clearly calls for morality. Whether he is strict or not, and not everything can be normized, it depends primarily on the people that this law applies to his fact and his success. I therefore call on everyone to whom this law applies not only to respect the recommendations, warnings of the Republic and the other committees, but to not by their actions lead the committee to discuss them at all. When it comes to G17 Plus officials, I guarantee that the Republic Committee will have no business at all, and as far as the opposition is concerned, even though they are against this law, I hope, if they are sometimes in a position to apply this law to them at times, that they will respect its provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1593	The People's Messenger, Gordan Pop-Lazic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister in the opening statement, on behalf of the promoter, made it clear that this bill, practically, was a promise that Vojislav Kostunica in his exposé when the government was formed, saying and announcing that we would fight corruption and organised crime in every way. However, this law also recognises the ineffectiveness of certain state authorities, and thus the ineffectiveness of the state, so the question is what we will do, or what the Government will do and what laws it will propose or amend to make all state authorities do their jobs, because if it were the case for us, this law would not be necessary at all. If the courts were to do right, if the prosecutions were to do as they were expected, if the police were to do their job, if the political parties were to be responsible enough, so if they were to put people they trust in most of the state functions and who are primarily moral persons, then we would also not need this law. Many here before me mentioned some groups of people, including names not covered by this law, and they were the bearers and main characters of some of the affairs that have shaken us in previous years. That's what I'm saying because I think the law has a gap, a cavity and an SRS tried to fix it with its amendments, so we'll see when there's a debate on the details of how much you'll hear about it, because our goal is all the same. We all want to deal with corruption in some way, although all societies suffer from it and hardly any without it can, but we can narrow it down to some bearable minimum. The question is whether we're going to be a serious state or we're going to play the country, because, truth be told, if we're going to find out who's got what and how he got it, it's the easiest way through the tax authorities. They're the easiest ones to determine how much income you've been making, how much taxes you've paid or not paying taxes, what you have, make a difference and, please, the courts should do their job. But we obviously didn't want to do it that way until now, nor could our tax authorities do it. One of the questions is where is the guarantee to us under this law that that public official who is found to have a conflict of interest will end up in court, because, as far as I understand it, some material evidence is still gathering. This republican committee has evidence that there has been a conflict of interest, there may be some material benefit, most often material benefit, and where you guarantee that it will have the prosecution's hearing and that it will not go deaf about all this. If it all ends up on those scales that the board can bring, then we're absolutely ineffective, because it's all like, believe me, that belt that Mom keeps on the closet, so if it's necessary, I'm going to cut you down, but let it stand there and scare the public officials. If we have officials who are enough to threaten to remind them of the fact that they are the highest state officials and that they should do their job in the public interest and that they should be high moral personalities, then let this law also exist. The measure of non-public warning, which the committee may issue, is pronounced, the law says, if the conflict of public interest did not affect the exercise of public office (so, but no more so), and the measure of public publication of the recommendation for resolution provided for in Article 27, if it does not comply with this law until the expiry of the time limit set for it. So, after that, after one measure and another, you can put an end to all that, because if someone has a cheek like a sole then no law, at least not like this, without real sanctions can lead to a goal. I am now asking one question and to the president of the Assembly who is not here - whether there is a conflict of interest and whether there will be a conflict of interest under this law in the fact that he does not put individual proposals of MPs or parliamentary groups on the agenda. We can assume either we claim or we can prove that there is, because it's possible that some lobbys don't want certain problems solved that way. I hope that if this law is passed, it will no longer come to anyone's mind to go deaf about proposals from MPs or MPs and to put everything on the agenda, and most of them will decide whether or not they will be discussed. The government's intentions were, in our opinion, honorable - to prevent a conflict between public and private interest, to establish rules and principles that officials should handle when performing public functions. It is stated in the law of a situation that can potentially cause a conflict of public interest, the authorities that will take care of it, the measures for injury, and they are, and the law itself says, only moral nature. To be honest, this law doesn't exclude criminal responsibility, but if our officials were so far touching this law, we wouldn't need it. I'm afraid this law will be untouchable too -- look at some high-ranking state officials who have appeared before the Survey Committee these days; some of them have simply threatened the members of the Survey Committee, held full alerts, without prejudice to their being called to account at all. And I'd remind you that when someone is invited to a polling committee in America, he's just thinking about how much he's going to get, not whether or not he's going to go to jail. Now, that's the responsibility, which is hard for us to establish by law like this, but some penalties and sanctions that would be imposed by criminal law, with an effective judiciary, I believe that; sometimes I even think, believe me, of that Dushan code. But before that, we need our public officials to respect, we need to fight for their status, not to be fooled that our top state officials can live on 30,000 dinars and that some of them have an interest in living out of 30,000 dinars, because they can't. So, instead of this money that we give for these 169 committees only at the local level, and yet for the province, and then the republican, and for the whole administration, for all these employees and board members, it's better for us to give our ministers year-on-year appointments, that they don't need to get their hands in anyone's pocket, not to run from one board to another. Because, believe me, I'm convinced, and it's not easy for them either, but they have to sort of replace that with their family's money and they can't exist, because they can't think about leaving a woman 300 or 500 dinars for lunch tomorrow and running politics and running billions of dinars at his disposal. So it's demagogy. If we want to deal with demagogues, we can, and if we want to change something radically, let us change it by some law on public officials, some law on MPs, to know who is who in this country, how much responsibility it is, and then for every mistake and for every slip, criminal application, and it has to be resolved in court, there are no extenuating circumstances, there are no untouchable. Of course, there is political responsibility, and that political responsibility will come to us, I mean at some higher level, when serious political parties, the big political parties, will be the ones who will decide in the future what is going on in this country. I would not talk about the details, but I took 10 minutes for my colleagues; I am convinced that this law is another one of those who put pressure on public officials, but we do not believe that this committee, which is intended as a body that should take care of the conflict of interest, will ever be formed, at least not as you have predicted (we have had such cases before) and will lead to those effects that you wanted as legislators. So it may not be bad to have one of these laws, but what benefits we will have from it, we will see in practice, if it is brought in; we Serbian radicals are not optimistic that it can significantly improve the state of the fight against corruption in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1595	The word is made by Minister Zoran Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to address again today at the end of this debate today. I must also thank you, by the way, for all the objections you have made to this law today, which assure me of the correctness of my midday claim at the beginning of the debate itself, that this is the law of the Serbian Government, but also the law of all of you who, as MPs, are sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that you will be sitting there until the end of the session, until the law is passed and you are bound by this law. It is not enough just to support this law declared, so it is not enough to properly comply with the law to criticise every provision. But anyway, I've had plenty of useful suggestions today to hear here throughout the entire day's debate. I also had the opportunity to get acquainted with most of the amendments that came to the law during the break. I think there is a lot of quality there and that all amendments, as I promised at the beginning of the debate, which are constructive, which contribute to raising the quality of this law, and not to destroy the concept of this law, and not only to give the MP the right to go out for this pay phone and to make political marketing on this law, will be accepted by me as a representative of the Government completely. To respond in the shortest sense to a few basic remarks, as far as I had the chance to hear today. First of all, the fundamental observation was that this was an expensive law and inappropriate for Serbia at the moment it was in place. I don't think that remark stands. This law aims to save money. Millions and millions of dinars flow out of Serbia's budget daily through corruption. It is pointless to say that several thousand monthly fees for working on boards are a set of laws. Furthermore, the objection was that there are no legal sanctions. Legal sanctions aren't supposed to exist in this law. Legal sanctions for non-compliance with the function entrusted, law enforcement envisaged, exist in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. There are criminal and legal sanctions, material and legal sanctions, there have always been, there are now, but it is not up to the government of the Republic of Serbia to enforce those sanctions. It is a matter of the justice of the Republic of Serbia, the prosecution and the competent courts. The government of the Republic of Serbia, which was elected a month ago, has no intention of exerting political influence, as so far, on the functioning of the judiciary. We expect that in the coming months, the judiciary will show only how unaffected it is by the political authority to apply legal sanctions to the illegal exercise of functions by the competent state authorities, both those before the government's election and those after the government's election, which will be done by its officials. The question was whether the law would apply to both the head of the cabinet of the Prime Minister and the advisers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course. Anyone who knows what is set up will not be retroactively applied to the former cabinet chiefs and former advisers of the Prime Minister, but only for the future, because that means legal certainty - the inability of retroactive application of the law, prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. For any such abuses committed during the previous period, the courts and the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia are competent. The objection was to question the incompetence of members of the electoral committees. It's not the election board, I'm sorry. I'm coming from a session of the Republic Election Commission, so I'm changing terms, I'm sorry. Members of committees which determine the existence of conflicts of interest do not have to be lawyers. They don't have to have a judicial exam, they have to have a high degree of moral integrity and a sense of respect for justice and law. The sanctions of this law are not legal. Legal sanctions exist afterwards. Legal sanctions are imposed by the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia. People who carry out these actions must have a high degree of legal knowledge and must have, as the question here has been asked, passed a judicial exam. This is not required for committees to determine the existence of conflicts of interest. We felt that they should not be members of political parties, not because we think that people who are members of political parties are not fair enough people, on the contrary, we don't think so, but we wanted to raise these people above daily policy. Whoever is a member of the political party must be led by party discipline. It was not our wish that members of the board who resolve conflicts of interest in their decision represent the views of the party to which they belong. The objection was that this was not sufficiently designed law because there is no item in the budget required for the work of a number of committees to implement this law. I can understand someone who has never participated in the adoption of a budget law to make this objection. Gentlemen Members of Parliament, you know that an item in the budget can be earned by any body that exists at the moment of budget adoption. Just because there is no organ at the moment of budget adoption doesn't mean that it can't be educated later. The government of the Republic of Serbia promised from this pay phone a month ago and today it is fulfilling that promise, it is the law on conflict of interest, for which implementation is responsible by the Republic Committee, the provincial, local committees, etc. We'll propose some other laws, probably soon. Also, the component of the exposé was the promise that a law on the ombudsman and the establishment of the institution would be proposed. For the committees, for the Ombudsman and for all the new authorities that will be envisaged, and for which I hope you will adopt them, there are funds in the budget, because the budget represents the government's work plan, financially, for the current year; there is an item called the budget reserve, and from there these committees and all bodies that are educated will be funded. The complaint concerns the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this law. Isn't it too late with this law already? We are all in favour of this law, and this government, the government of the Republic of Serbia promised it a month ago, and now respects it. Should we wait for a regular procedure, then a month to pass this law? It is our desire that, at the moment of the election of all board members, all state officials, who are in progress, we have a law on conflict of interest, that these people be put in advance to know what awaits them. A clear line must be drawn between previous behaviours and behaviours that must be respected by all future officials of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why doesn't this law apply to judges? Of course the judges are also subject to possible corruption, and that should be resolved, I said it in the opening part, but it will be settled by special laws, primarily from a set of judicial laws. The government of the Republic of Serbia has promised you this, and you will likely receive proposals next week to amend a set of judicial laws, where a conflict of interest will be regulated for judges, public prosecutors, their deputies and all judicial holders in Serbia. Why are sanctions just moral? Gentlemen and Madam People's MPs, this law is political, not legal. There are legal sanctions, as I have answered you. These sanctions are of a moral nature because we believe we should have Serbia with strong public opinion, with enough politically responsible public office holders. It will be quite enough that an independent, expert committee, as provided for by this law, says they have stamped their finger and their decision by a state-owned carrier that he has performed this function contrary to the public interest, in other words that he has misused it. We expect that this will be a sufficient signal in this Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to raise the issue of resolving all of us you chose a month ago. The Serbian government will certainly be a clear signal, when it receives even an unpublic recommendation, that it is time to consider selecting a new candidate for the post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-07-0.u1597	Before we conclude today's work, let me inform you that a session of the Finance Committee was called for tomorrow, April 8, 2004, starting at 9:00 p.m. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
