ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3571	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. Before I open the 12th session of the First Regular Session, I must thank you all for your patience. All parliamentary groups received notice during the afternoon, when the committees met, but to move the session after 15.00 hours, as you can see, we are unwarrantedly late due to the MPs' duties. I apologize to all of you and to the public, and I ask you to take care of this – first and foremost, of the representatives of the ruling coalition. I am opening the 12th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 209 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Radoslav Jovic, Gordana Komic, Slobodan Mihajlović, Dragor Hiber and Natasa Micic. Explanation of the grounds for calling a session within a short period of time and another day from the day on which, pursuant to Article 81(1), paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure shall hold meetings: pursuant to Article 80(2) and Article 81(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session exclusively for Friday and postponed for Monday, as well as within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider and adopt the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Codes of Criminal Procedure, for which the Proposer - the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to be considered by an urgent procedure. In the context of this session that was delivered to you, with the addition, contained a proposal for the sitting agenda. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 May 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, against 62, one of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft drug and medical law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 May 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, against 64, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 May 2004, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 141, against 52, they did not vote four out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 27 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic -- suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a law to prevent doping in sport, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 May 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 22, against 156 abstentions eight, 15 of the 201 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 36 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic -- suggested putting on the agenda a motion for a resolution on Serbia's European future, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 May 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 22, against 113 abstentions, 11 did not vote 52, out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagica Kostic suggested that the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is the third item of the proposed agenda, be considered as the first item of the agenda. Does the People's MP, Blagovica Kostic, want a word? Here you go, then, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3572	The Honorable Presidency, ministers, honourable MPs, one of the biggest problems of our society, much greater than the one we have in education or in health care, is certainly the ineffectiveness of the judicial system. Before I say anything, I would like to make a protest that this proposal on amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure has not come much earlier on the agenda of this assembly. On the basis of Article 86(3), Rules of Procedure, I have proposed that the first item of the agenda of today's session be amended and the addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure, so that it will not happen because of procedural failures but on September 2nd, the perpetrators of the most serious crimes of assassination and the quadruple murder at the Ibar Masteral. Also, by adopting amendments and supplementing the law that is before us, it prevents us from... I really apologize and pray for a little silence, since I have first spoken to this House. I'll tell you again. The adoption of amendments and additions to the law that is before us prevents the already seen obstruction of judicial proceedings by the murderers of the Democratic Party of Mr Zoran Djindjic and Ivan Stambolic with constant defence requests for the exception of judges and prosecutors. I sincerely believe that there is not a single MP in this assembly who supports crime, as if there were no MP groups who didn't care about justice finally triumphing over crime. That's why I expect the SPO's request to be unanimously supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3573	According to the Rules of Procedure, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, as the entire session has been scheduled against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so is this request that has again arrived from the SPO-NS parliamentary group to change the order of the agenda points contrary to this Rules of Procedure. If you want to read the Rules of Procedure as it stands, Article 86, paragraph 3, fine-tunes deadlines for such requests and says that it is three days before the session scheduled for a specific date. This act was sent to Mr Predrag Markovic on May 22nd, so on Saturday. We got on the table yesterday night at the Parliament Club, and the MPs could only see it today at the Secretary of the Parliament Club. Does it make sense that this point, which is now foreseen as the third item of the agenda, is now the first item of the agenda and that MPs are making it impossible, given that by an urgent procedure, to deliver amendments, to judge it yourself. In any case, the three-day period is not respected, but is much shorter, because this act was filed on May 22nd at 2.30 p.m. There is no way you can put this item on the agenda to be considered the first item of the agenda. It's about this injury, but since I have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to reactivate time, so I don't go out again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3575	Wait a minute, I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3576	This is Article 80(3), which states that the President of the National Assembly may postpone the hour, that is, the day of the meeting of the National Assembly, if a number of amendments have been submitted to the motions for acts in the proposed agenda. Please, we had an appointment session with two agendas on Friday. We didn't start that session, nor did we finish it. You're having the same session, it seems like the 13th session in a row has been postponed for today. There are no reasons for standing in the Rules of Procedure. So you couldn't delay the session for today, and you couldn't change the agenda. You have two injuries that indicate that you are committing violence in parliament, that you are humiliating the National Assembly and the People's MPs. If you think we don't have a shortcut to work, but that on Friday all day and today we're here at 4:30 a.m. waiting for you in your coalition to work out what anyone can do to whom and how much concession he can make, then you're wrong. We may have to wait and we want to wait, but the citizens of Serbia won't wait. Those blackmails and your guesses can't last long. You're obviously about to collapse, and it should be nice for the Prime Minister to go public and say that this coalition is unsustainable, as we said it was unsustainable. You can't operate a coalition with horns in a bag, you don't have a single political program, you didn't even have it in a pre-election campaign. You don't have it right now, you see that you're going to lose in the presidential election and you're in a hurry to do something that you think is possibly in the interest of a particular group from that coalition. Call your senses, remember that these previous ones, who were far more powerful than you, had much more support in parliament. When they came into the situation that they couldn't hold the session, they had to discuss the elections very soon afterwards. It seems that calling an emergency parliamentary election is the only remedy for us to return to the legal frameworks and stick to the law and the Rules of Procedure, and there is a political group here who swears to the Constitution and the law, and it violates both the Constitution and the law whenever they seem to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3577	Thank you. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, the replica? Wrong interpretation? - You're picking up from the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, replica, president of the parliamentary group, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3578	First of all, I don't think it's a well-quoted article 86. The SPO and New Serbia parliamentary group (that is, not only the SPO) has applied for the third item of the agenda to be classified as the first item of the agenda for this session and I will read you what it says in Article 86. Therefore, Mrs Pop-Lazic read only the first part and misread Article 86, which reads: "Proposals for the extension of the agenda to the proposals for acts which, according to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, have met the conditions to be entered into the agenda, shall be submitted no later than three days before the date specified for the meeting of the National Assembly", and says further: "and proposals relating to the selection, appointment, resolution and termination of functions; the withdrawal of certain points from the proposed agenda; the merger of the debate and the change of the order of the points shall be delivered no later than 24 hours before the start of the session of the National Assembly". That, therefore, is written and it is given in time and we heard it given. By the time I got out, I'd like to ask you to make a deal, given that we've wasted so much time, to extend our work until 10:00. I suggest we extend the work to 2200 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3579	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Gordana Pop-Lazic, if I understand you correctly. You will allow me, on any objection to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stevanovic, the president of the National Assembly or the chairman is obliged to give an explanation, so in case this explanation is not accepted, it is voted in the voting day. So, allow me to make an explanation for all the questions concerning calling the meeting of the president of the Assembly; therefore, I will also make remarks about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, over the previous two reports by Mrs Pop-Lazic. Now here you are, once again according to the Rules of Procedure, Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3580	Mr. President, I've failed to say that I'm asking the Assembly to declare this violation of the Rules of Procedure that I've advertised. Mr. Stevanovic probably didn't, and he's proven it by his performances in the Assembly, perhaps in a mental situation that he can understand everything he's told... (President:I warn you of expression, under Article 100. Here you go. ) I advertised that this item of the agenda could not be found on the agenda and that yesterday was Sunday and that 250 MPs were not sitting in parliament, that no one sent a telegram or any notice to the MPs, which you were obliged to do, but we come here at 9:00 this morning and we find a request like this. I'm sorry, but he's a very important influence on the length of the session, because it's about submitting amendments and preparing for work. We were preparing for the first item of the agenda, and it will certainly affect the quality of the debate. That's obviously your goal. In addition, the Serbian Renewal Movement is in a hurry to pass the law, for reasons known to them, they are not interested in the fate of the coalition, they are not interested in the results of the presidential elections, they know that parliament will be disbanded and it is important to pass only this law. They're not interested in working on the other two points of the agenda. If you agree to be the subject of SPO blackmail, Danice Draskovic, we do not agree. Therefore, we ask that you return to normal and allow every MP to work and prepare for the sessions, because we are not any political diletaries here. We take our business seriously and what Serbian citizens have sent us to parliament. That's why I answered my word again. Mr. President, I repeat once again, I ask the Assembly to plead upon the injury I have suffered. It is up to you to allow the session to begin like this and it is still the ultimate impertinence to suggest, please, that we work tonight until 10:00, and we sit in parliament for two days and wait for the session to begin. It's an extreme insolence that you shouldn't, colleagues, tolerate, no matter where you're from.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3581	Thank you. Let me just point out the facts about the two injuries you indicated by speaking at the beginning. So, at the beginning of this session, I made clear to all the MPs, and I read the reasons for calling the session within a short period of time and the second day from which, according to Article 81(1), paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure, they're holding sessions. So the MPs got an explanation. The same explanation was given to all MPs here on Friday, when there were also attempts to even deceive the public and to say that the law did not arrive at the Assembly, a law divided by the MPs here. They had it at their disposal since Friday, but I share the belief that it must not only start within 24 hours before the motion to amend the order, as ordered by Article 86(2), which has been done, but I insisted that the session not only begin during the afternoon until the Legislative Committee gives its opinion, while MPs do not prepare any amendments, because I hold a slightly different understanding of the obligations of MPs in the National Assembly is to work in the National Assembly. Since I have respected all the members of the Rules of Procedure, please, if this notice does not satisfy you, the MPs shall make themselves known in the day of the vote, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing our work. So we have two motions for a vote. We'll take the order. I'll remind you again. Therefore, MP Blagica Kostic suggested that the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is the third item of the proposed agenda, be considered as the first item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 36 of the 175 MPs did not vote for 139. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 135, against 63, it did not vote 10 out of 208 MPs. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. A bill on medicines and medical means, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. (Departed from the agenda on 28 May 2004) We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Before that, please, MP Veroljub Stevanovic suggested working today until 22:00. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 102, against 75, 27 of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal to work until 10:00 p.m. What are you advertising, that she hasn't been doing MPs...? I'm asking professional services to check it out. Please, Mr. Stamenkovic, pay attention to the expression. Let the professional service check this MP's unit, and we'll make a statement later, depending on that. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE (principles) You have adopted a bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Đorđe Mamula, Milan Stevović, Vjerica Radeta, Miljko Četrović, Sreto Perić, Vojislav Milajić, Nemanja Sarović, Petar Jojić, Bozidar Koprivica, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milorad Mirčić, Igor Mirović, Zoran Angelković, Zarko Obradović, Boško Ristić, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović and together Slobodan Vuković and Slobodan Pajović. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party - 1 hour 38 minutes and 24 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia - 1 hour 3 minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 - 37 minutes and 12 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia - 26 minutes and 24 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 26 minutes and 24 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs, after five minutes, based on Article 89 paragraphs 3. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the Proposer's representative, Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I know we've been very tired since we've waited a long time for the beginning of this session, so I'm going to try to give in the shortest lines the basics and the most important changes that these changes provide. You know that after the Constitutional Charter was adopted, the fact of federal regulations stopped, and there are no more federal institutions. This required that these regulations be in line with our republican regulations and provided for by the authorities to carry out those tasks. At the same time, the charter stipulates that the ratified international conventions have primate over domestic legislation, so it was our obligation to bring our domestic legislation into line with the conventions we adopted and ratified. It is about the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, the Vienna Convention, etc. For these reasons, an amendment to the existing Criminal Procedure Act has been made to European standards in our regulations. Let me immediately point out that one part of the regulations and remarks that we have been laid down is embedded, one part is not, in the end I will also say a few sentences about it, and for the reason that the existing situation does not give us the possibility of installing them, because it could not be applied. Among the basic things that have been amended by this new introduction of European standards is, above all, a formulation of the presumption of innocence. We've had a lot of disputes about whether the assumption exists, how it is interpreted, etc., so it's decided here that it is valid and that the person is considered innocent all the way to a judicial verdict. As for the deprivement of freedom, a newspaper has also been made, as it is foreseen that the moment the freedom of the person deprived of freedom must immediately reflect everything that is burdened him, thus deprive him of his freedom, and immediately point to his rights. This is also important, for the reason that a good number of people who are deprived of freedom without knowing their rights did not even benefit. For these reasons, it is precisely trusted that the rights of those persons have and must be shown to them at the moment of their lack of freedom. That's why "no delays" was brought in. One of the most important rights concerning especially the Vienna Convention, which is related to preventing torture, refers to the obligation to enable the person to undergo medical examination. The paper is examined for the possibility of immediately requesting a medical examination, and when brought in by an investigative judge no longer leaves the possibility for the judge to decide whether or not he will accept the proposal for review, he will be obliged to do so. One of the largest newspapers to prevent the abuse of powers in the process of delaying proceedings is to amend the exemption provisions. New changes are scheduled for the next thing. So far, the exemption could have been requested until the main search was opened. This change introduces the possibility of so-called. First moment of opening the search. It's been bigger since then, and it can decide. In order to avoid abuses, a large number of proposals for exemption for no reason, which mostly took place at that time, from opening the search to the opening of the main search, are given the possibility that the larger could reject the request for an exemption without the right to appeal, if it is obviously aimed at delaying proceedings and abuse. I'd like to give an explanation, because these days I've heard that it prevents the possibility of putting a valid exemption request, which is not true. Here it is decadently said – only if it is clearly aimed at stalling. In normal situations, you can apply and he goes normal. In order to improve discipline in the process, disciplinary penalties have also been increased in a tenfold amount. The special newspaper concerns the issue of detention. According to the international convention that we ratified, point 6 says we put a reserve on the so-called. mandatory detention, i.e. The international convention does not allow for mandatory detention and we have put a reserve, as normal as any other reserve, not good enough. It's not said how long we'll agree to that, nor is it said in any way. We are in a situation where the Council of Europe can say tomorrow – from now on, sanctions begin. In that situation, we had to rephrase that provision, starting with the basic assumption and the principle that it cannot be accepted as a principle in advance as a principle that detention is mandatory. In this situation, we have made one transformation to remove that reserve, and this danger that threatened us, so we say, can be determined for the most serious crimes. The same is still true, where 40 years can, if the execution of the act points to justification for its weight and method of execution. The second thing that's been introduced here, it's a matter of length of detention. It is our obligation to respect the European standard to end proceedings and judgments against citizens within a reasonable period of time. The question remains of interpreting a reasonable period of time. Since it was two types of detention, one of the charges was brought to the verdict, and the other from the verdict to the second-degree verdict, for the first time there were several proposals – one that encouraged from our courts, and above all from the Department of Combating Organized Crime, was to delete all deadlines, so that there were no restrictions. This could not be accepted because it would be directly contrary to this widely accepted European standard, so the government took the view that the easier crimes would certainly not require that length of detention, but those most difficult and complex ones would require a certain deadline, so we felt that it could be four years. Much more significant is this second deadline, which counts from the day of the abolition of the first-degree sentence. There was no dilemma with us that the deadline that was scheduled for the year was not valid. I think the legislator dropped one important thing out of sight earlier. So right now, I'm not talking about any particular case, I'm talking about principle. After the removal of the first-degree sentence, the procedure should be repeated and a rejuvenation should be made, with the possibility of rescinding one, two or more times, which certainly cannot be completed within such a short period of one year. For these reasons, we felt that this deadline should be extended for another year, that this is sufficient to allow, possibly, the rescinding to take place, the procedure could be renewed and the verdict reached. The deadline alone for a year is short and I don't think the legislator had that in mind. The next paper related to these changes is that those defence proceedings leading to a delay in proceedings are not counted within this deadline. Right away, I saw an amendment that I accept, because the mistake was made so that the defendant could influence it. Normally, he can't influence because he's in custody. That amendment is fine. But the lack of defenders, deliberate lack of search, etc., leading to a delay, will not count; this would serve as a means of preventing defence from making senseless proceedings. One of the special newspapers is related to the issue of language use. It seems to the view that this should not only apply to national minorities, but that the right to a free interpreter should apply to all persons who do not know the language used in the procedure where they correspond. As far as costs go, one of the problems that arises are so-called. the costs of defence in the pre-taste procedure, i.e. at the internal affairs office. So far, that question has been questionable. The M.O.P. didn't want to pay the expenses, but we already have a few lawsuits from lawyers to pay those expenses. To get rid of that, we've imposed a commitment on the M.O.P. to bear your expenses and pay off. Given the new convention, especially so-called The Palermo Convention, which treats crime interstately, related to the so-called "Palerm". Major crimes – money laundering, human trafficking, organs and so on, we have installed certain standards in our right. The problem that has arisen so far, especially with money laundering, was that legal aid for obtaining evidence outside our country could only be achieved after a criminal trial has been initiated by the court. In this situation, the prosecutor and the authorities of the MUP could eventually collect the necessary evidence in our territory, but not those outside our territory, and then the investigative judge would say there is no enough doubt that the proceedings are being initiated. The possibility is now being extended, i.e. giving the prosecutor the opportunity to authorise the Ministry of Interior to obtain these evidence, in order to finally begin to be properly tried in this country. With regard to the delay of criminal prosecution in those most mild acts, we have come to the conclusion that it is a quasi-judicial function, entrusted to the prosecutor, and that in this situation it is also necessary that the court agree, with the introduction of two special measures, would, in our opinion, give much better results in relation to the resociation and adaptation in the environment from which the persons come from, and especially in view of the fact that they are so-called. voluntary submissions to these measures. It's about the treatment of alcoholism and drug abuse. It is also possible that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior can commit criminal acts for up to 10 years without an investigative judge. This is because it has already proved in practice that when it comes to milder criminal acts, it is so many that investigative judges have not come to their senses. There would be problems in this situation for the collection of basic material evidence. That's why we thought it was necessary to lift it up to 10 years' worth of work. Given that the federal court no longer exists, these changes have been abolished by the so-called so-called. The fourth degree, i.e. reviewing the death penalty, a team before the death penalty has already been excluded from our legal system. The organ's gone, so we had to drop it. Another newspaper, for us very important, is that it is provided that the person who is deprived of liberty has the right to immediately seek review of the legality of the deprivation of freedom and to seek compensation for the unlawful deprivation of freedom. One of the special papers is very important to us, which is that it is given the opportunity to investigate the judge, or court, in the crime of money laundering and so on. serious criminal offences, in order to be able to gain insight into the bank accounts and personal accounts of suspects, and the possibility of applying certain measures to confiscate and block certain assets, in order to further confiscate property gains obtained by these criminal acts. In the end, it may be one of the major newspapers and that, and that would not have caused confusion if we had undertaken under these conventions to act on them, I mean those conventions that provide for our obligation to co-operate with the permanent Criminal Court in Rome, because we ratified this convention, even accepted the statutes, Strasbourg and the regular court in The Hague, this is about the legal aid that can be granted, and that even extradited the persons to those courts. In order not to make a mistake, I must say immediately that this does not apply to The Hague tribunal. It's about a court that was founded ad hoc and is subject to, unfortunately, that law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, so it has nothing to do with this. Let me just say that we left out Article 15b. A law on organised crime, which referred to the possibility of bringing any person in and detaining him for up to 24 hours, if he estimates he can give any information. We felt that by European standards, this is about detention, when you keep your face for 24 hours, and it's not allowed, and we, in agreement with these things that the Charter of Human and Civil Rights provides, have left out this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3583	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3584	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, representatives of the SRS, the MPs, will speak in this high house about the amendment and addition of this code, not about the political calculations that could be heard in the previous days. We won't respond to inappropriate attacks by those who must have wanted to accuse, among other things, the SRS, and they don't know why, how, why, but I guess that's how they thought of it, so they don't know what else to do. The proposal to amend and supplement this code is an extremely bad act. It's an act that brings us into informal emergency. It is an act that violates all European principles, all international conventions on respect for human rights and freedoms. All those who have found a political bill in this, believing that some in the second round will get support from someone, and some not to get angry, show how much the state has not grown to them at all, that the state and key issues for this country are not at all interested, but that it is political chickening – let's get one, two or three points, and take some television, and let some of the promoters attack their key political competitors. We do not run away from it, but we will tell everyone in person and openly – this is a terrible, almost criminal act. In fact, Mr Stojkovic, contrary to what some in public have been trying to say, I personally respect it very much. I thought it was a man who was telling the truth and holding on to the truth. I was convinced that he wanted to come professionally into both the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia. That's why I'm surprised by his exposure today. I'm surprised not because I think he thinks everything he's said from this pay phone, but because he's made himself say what he doesn't mean; because I know that as a lawyer, as someone who knows legal norms well knows what this is all about, as I know that all the lawyers were in power, either from the part of that chicken opposition, which is waiting for something else, not that they essentially vote or don't vote on this law, so they all know that this is completely pointless. I would ask Mr. Stojkovic to declare this correctly. If it's not true what I said, let him say I'm lying, and I won't go out on the line. What's this about? What's this about? Namely, there is no talk here about any Radet Markovic, as several parliamentary groups have begun to speak. Is that correct, Mr. Minister? It's true, Mr. Minister, as you say, because it's being tried under another law and it has nothing to do with this. It has nothing to do with any detention, related to Mr. Markovic. Here's the word for changes and supplements that are scary bad. We act like we're back somewhere in the 17th or early 18th century, where we can make decisions ourselves against all the norms of international public law and do what we want and what we want. I will read you some of the provisions that are introduced by these amendments and additions, which cannot be acceptable to either the Council of Europe or any European institution. I'm telling you now and I'm pointing out, and yet let the minister come out, let him say I'm lying. In a few weeks, not months, you'll get a message from the Council of Europe -- change that, you can't keep this in your criminal-legal legislation. I'll tell you what the norms are. In the case of an exemption institute, you say – if an exemption request is submitted contrary to the provisions of Article 42 of this Code or if it is clearly governed by a delay in proceedings, the request will be rejected in whole or in part. Excuse me, who's the one who determines the obvious? Is he the one who's directly interested in it or someone else? What's the criterion for the obvious? How will this be established? Then you say: a judge whose exemption is sought may take part in the adoption of that solution from the opening of the session. Instead of this change, whether it's been on the main search or since the session opened, this should have changed exactly the essence of this norm. That was what you should have done, and it was one of the amendments of the SRS parliamentary group, so that one decided cannot participate in such a decision. That would be something that would be consistent with the principle of judicial independence and something that anyone could accept. You say there have been increased sentences, due to the efficiency of the proceedings, for witnesses who are due to appear in criminal proceedings. We've had a fine of 10,000, and now we've got a fine of 100,000 dinars. Then it is said – if it did not appear without approval or justifiable reason. Who's going to interpret that? I ripped out my leg at the front door, I'm supposed to be a witness, I'm not guilty, I'm not accused, so I'm a witness. Who's going to interpret whether I should pay 100 grand or not? Based on what parameters, on what criteria? Who can pay for that in Serbia today? That kind of intimidation will lead to what? Who's going to be the witness's witness? Or when people find out they're witnesses, they can't remember exactly, every day they go to one of the courts so they don't accidentally drop that obligation? You say and now we move on to what is a key part of our remarks. It's about Article 146, not about these changes: instead of the "state prosecutor" -- "public prosecutor" and what you have, the SRJ, Serbia-Montenegro, but now we see how long it can last in our country. It is a general act, which does not refer to an individual, that is not applicable ad personam. I've heard some say today - so it applies to those who killed the Prime Minister, and I don't know what. Guys, we're voting a general legal act here. What does that have to do with anything? There's been enough of this kind of abuse. Every time someone thinks of something and someone who's criminally trying to justify it, they think of it, and otherwise they'd never think of anything like that in their life. What's this about? Our bill on the duration of the detention is simple and I'll give it to you. You know that detention must last as soon as possible, to ensure the arrival of a judicial verdict as soon as possible, and because of the state's interest, but primarily because of the interest of the defendant, i.e. the defendant. So, he has the right to a free trial, he has the right to have a judicial verdict in the shortest possible time, and now his detention can last seven and a half years! Can you believe it, people? There's no country in a world where detention can last seven and a half years. Here's how we got that bill. First, we have what's called. pre-criminal detention, which can last, as we all know, up to six months, and then here is said and what changes are proposed; says – since the arrest charge can last for the longest time than two years, it can last from today, as you suggest, four years. I hope so, Mr. Minister, and I expect you to come out and tell us if you accept our amendment to get it back for these two years. I think you know we're right. If you say I'm wrong, I'll say you're all right. Come out and say I'm wrong about what I said. Say the better solution is what you're proposing. If you can, if you have cheeks, and I think you have cheeks and you can't say that. That's four years and six months so far. Then of course we have, according to our first degree sentence, another year. Five years and six months possible. Then what happens? If within a year a second-degree decision is issued to terminate the first-degree sentence, the detention may take up to two more years from giving the decision of the second-degree court. Seven-and-a-half years, not counting point 7) which says, "The deadlines of St. 3rd and 4th do not run in a period during which the main search is delayed or interrupted due to the absence of the accused or his defender", and then because of another fantastic genius thing, because of – "the failure of power". Because of the failure of power of attorney, deadlines don't run. It's totally amazing stuff! No one had this in the 17th century. I know that now someone will go out and say, "Yeah, they protect me, and I don't know who." We don't protect anyone, we've never seen those people in our lives. (President: Excuse me, are you using another 10 minutes? No, I'm done. I'll be done in a few seconds. So, as far as detention is concerned, we still have a lot of objections I'm going to make in my second statement, but I'm asking the minister to come out and say, especially as to our question of extension, so since the prosecution, whether the detention can last for the longest two or four years. If he says it can last four years, I take off my hat, but I'm sure he won't say it either and that no serious lawyer in this room will say it. I know that some people, who care, can say anything, can accuse anyone of anything, can say they're murderers, so they're nothing. That's not what I'm worried about. I'm interested in getting answers to this question from serious people. I hope that Mr Stojkovic, our MPs of the SRS, will welcome that answer, and those who think that both on this issue and on such important laws should lead their election campaign show that they are not Serbia's future, and citizens will best appreciate it in these elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3585	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here you go, Mr. Pitiæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3586	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, MPs, may for the first time in this assembly in front of parliament be a law that deserves the qualification of an emergency procedure and that it is on the agenda of this parliament's session. For the first time, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Emergency Procedure have been respected, although in the light of the urgency procedure in the draft law, these provisions are not listed and are not properly stated, as the Rules of Procedure so require. The postponement of a session scheduled for Friday, Monday, with a different agenda, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's what we pointed to on Friday. It is impossible, according to the Rules of Procedure, to cancel a session with one agenda, so it is postponed with another agenda, because it is simply a matter of different sessions, unless it is an identical agenda. There is a very simple mechanism that has not been used, whether because of ignorance or because of obstruction or unpreparedness to comply with the business provisions with the principle of draft law; therefore, the parliamentary majority could bring down the agenda that was scheduled for Friday's session and schedule for today's session with this agenda, or declare that parliament accepts that these three laws are on the agenda of the session. I'm a great skeptic whether or not we're going to end these three laws by the end of the regular session. I think it's bad that it's so pretentious that Parliament's ability to function. We were practically seven or eight hours late today with the beginning of the session. I think it should be less pretentious, and more realistic when defining the possibilities of a parliamentary majority to pass laws. This parliament, or most of it, has not been functioning for some time in the way it looks like parliament. This law is a stumbling block within the ruling coalition. It would be logical if an opposition party such as the DS did not support a bill that could lead to disagreement within the ruling coalition. In principle, it would be perfectly acceptable for us not to be involved in a bill that, in practice, allows those who committed the most serious crimes to be found in the face of justice to establish the truth in criminal proceedings against those persons who during the 1990s committed politically motivated crimes. The same criminal structure was responsible for the crime at Ibarska masteral, for the crime against Ivan Stambolic, for the crime against Curuvija, for the crime against Dr Zoran Djindjic. That's what bothers us more about accepting this bill. People were killed at the Ibari Masteral; whether I wanted it or not, and there are not only perceptions in public, but also in the political sense motive of proposing this law is to ensure the continuity of the Ibar Master's trial. It's bad that it is, I agree. It's not until the end or principled law is passed for one man or for several persons, but we are bound to those with whom we have been arrested, imprisoned, beaten, kicked out of work, to support this bill. We are bound by these people and by their families and are bound by the truth, and the truth is imperative for us, therefore, the truth about the perpetrators, and about the inspirers and employers of the most serious crimes in the last decade of the 20th century. This law is acceptable to us and to some other provisions. First, there's a duty for the devoid of freedom to know what's on their mind. It would be in line with international legal standards to be informed of any knowledge that has been made by the competent authorities during the proceedings. We will, in that sense, propose an amendment to this law. Some have been dealt with in a technical sense so far unsettled situations, such as costs in a pre-crisis procedure, when those persons against whom the pre-crisis proceedings were conducted were referred to the Ministry of the Interior, and the Ministry of the Interior referred them to courts and there was a circulus viciosus where they could not make compensation. It is now defined that the authority which led the pre-criminal procedure is obliged to bear the costs of the procedure. That provision that prevents torture during the process is also something that is totally acceptable to us. It is not acceptable for us, in this sense we have proposed amendments, that during the process practically when the request for an exemption is made for a greater declaration of the request for exemption. Because of what we have seen in recent weeks and months at the trial of the murderers of Dr. Zoran Djindjic and Ivan Stambolic - therefore, permanent obstruction, turning these trials into an inadmissible circus, into an atmosphere that is everything but the atmosphere of trials in one European country - we are absolutely in order to prevent the obstruction, to make permanent requests for exceptions quite different. It is sufficient to define that the application for exemption should not delay the initiation of the procedure, i.e. not interrupt the procedure, but rather the higher authorities, or more instance (if it is the President of the Court or other instance) decide on the requests for exemption. Therefore, it is not in principle that the request for an exemption, i.e. itself, is practically decided by the person conducting the procedure. And in that sense, we have proposed an amendment to this law. As a party, regardless of what we are as an opposition in this House, we will support this bill. We're not gonna get cheap political points on it. On the contrary, we think that it is unacceptable, unacceptable, unprincipled, we think that any condemnation of such an attitude can only speak of one who condemns such an attitude. In any case, we will support this bill and vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3587	The word has a minister, so Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3588	I won't go out much, but since Mr. Wolf called me, I'll say so. Right now, I'm not going to tell if you're lying or if you're not lying, because that's not my job. I think yours was more provocative, and you asked me legally. You asked who it is that determines if it's clearly aimed at stalling. Court. The court is not a party. I agree that parties can be subjective, but the court would, based on that basic assumption, have to be objective, which means that it should objectively assess it. I accept that the court can make a mistake, but then there's an appeal for a verdict and that would be one of the major violations of the proceedings. The other thing is, you were talking about urgency, and our law stipulates that these procedures on detention cases are urgent. However, the Charter itself does not say that, but says "in a reasonable time". It was, quite frankly, a matter of assessment. I don't think there's any dilemma for this second part, from year to year, for me as a lawyer. In theory, it's not possible, if one or twice is abolished, anyone to end the case within that time limit justly. This first part is what's causing the dilemma. You had a court request to go to another extreme, that there was no. On the other hand, I noticed an amendment that makes one good nivelation-for those milder cases up to two years, and only for those difficult cases, e.g. 40 years and the complexity of the subject, possibly four. I can leave you with an opinion on whether it's longer or shorter. It's now an evaluation of the so-called. reasonable deadline. As to whether there is in the world - there is. And today, in Italy, you have a lot of mob bosses in Naples, who have been lying around for seven or eight years and have not yet completed their proceedings. So, for some things, there's this possibility. To be clear, I'm not saying whether it's okay or not, that assessment I'm talking about, but since you said it doesn't exist anywhere, I'm sure it does exist. In the end, about this last one. This change is not related to any object. I'll give you the simplest case. Have the Ibar Highway hold off on September 2nd. All three persons are in court's second trial - Special Crimes Department. They'll be put in custody there, and they'll be held in custody. It's not about any case at all. Here is a purely principled debate, to which Mr. Vukic pointed out - is it really that so-called. A reasonable deadline or not a reasonable deadline? I say, I've seen even one amendment, and in that sense I accept the correction of what you've said, four and two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3589	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3590	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since the deputy head or representative of the former regime's parliamentary group said that for the conviction of all of them or that he speaks much more about those who condemn such behaviour as representatives or members of the former regime today in the National Assembly and that he speaks more about us than about them, I must say that it is sad to listen to those who have put 12,000 people behind bars and accused them of everything and everything, without the right to answer, both on television and in the newspapers, without the right to say a single word. Those who put their sex organs in drawers, those who tortured them by putting leeches on their heads, those who killed more people in November 29th than they died in the KBC Cardiovascular Department, today tell us about how they had been tortured for the past ten years or how they were arrested, imprisoned or I don't know what. No wonder you want to vote. I know you can't wait for the time of the 16th or 17th centuries to come back, to arrest and harass who you arrive at, and to hold in custody anyone you think of who can never appear anywhere again to say a single word, let alone have the right to legal defense. What you're doing today is cheap political chickening, you're hoping to get some vote from SPO representatives, you're hoping they'll give you a voice, whether in the first election round or in any other way. You know well enough that this law thing, with the general acts, has nothing to do with it. The minister comes out and says -- it's not for any ad personam, not for any ad personam, it's not for a man who's been arrested, and you know exactly who it's all about; so why didn't you judge those killers, why the courts in your time didn't judge so many years, why there's no standard here about the efficiency of the courts, about the efficiency of the judiciary. The only norm is -- we're increasing the detention to seven and a half years, and that's all you're talking about, and it's really nice to have him in custody for seven and a half years. There are no such standards, Minister Stojkovic, as general provisions or in Italian law, they are nowhere in the world. Then we're nice now, we're gonna back up, they're radicals there, and they're gonna be on the side of the crime. Oh, no, you don't. Never in life has any of these people here, of these 82 SRS MPs, seen any of these people, not from the Ibar highway, not from the Stambolic case, not from the Djindjic case, nor I know which one. Now you're going to tell me -- that and that's on the side of it and that. Don't talk about it, because you're opening Pandora's box to talk about who's on whose side and who's doing what so far, but don't interpret the laws by making small, cheapest political points possible, saying it's not the time for cheap political points. Well, you made us cry here; you don't do anything else, nothing else comes to mind, the state to break up, the laws to destroy, to destroy everything that can be destroyed, only that the former regime can get its hands on a crumb of power again so that they can continue all that they did in the previous period. The fact that you're ex, that's over, that you're ex-continuing forever, and, fortunately, you won't be coming back to power soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3591	Mr. Pitiæ, according to the Rules of Procedure, which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3592	Article 97 The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating Article 97, which very precisely defines when a right to replica can be exercised. So, "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressing himself about the MP from another Parliament group", which I did not notice, "citeing his name and last name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation refers has the right to the replica". I did not explicitly or implicitly mention the parliamentary group the previous speaker spoke of. Why aren't the courts and how the courts tried and at whose time -- we were the parliamentary majority, the majority in the executive government, but, as you know, we never instrumented the judiciary, nor the courts. Those who transfer to someone who was the parliamentary majority and the majority in the executive government for what the judiciary worked in one way or another, talk about how they experience the division of power. They obviously don't know the division of power the way we wanted to do it. The "Sabbe" action is often mentioned (I don't know where from now on and the "Sabbe" action); there have been violations of human rights, and those who have violated human rights should be accountable for it. It's very cheap to transfer it to any politician, any MP, it's quite certain that we've never agreed with a torturer or a violation of any human right. What's the fact about the "Sabbe" action is that over 80% of Serbian citizens supported the action and another fact is that Serbia-Montenegro was admitted to the Council of Europe during the action, before the time, and precisely because of a reaction assessed as adequate at that time. We didn't mention any of the parties, and we're sick and tired of mentioning any of the parties. This topic is too serious to argue and to lead, apparently, a presidential campaign for this speaker. It is true that the law, no ad personam has been passed, is true that no name is written on it, and why we have waited seven hours, if this law is not politically motivated, if no name is written on it, if indeed this law is not related to any particular case and if indeed this particular case is not related to the request of any of the political parties found in parliament. Unfortunately, it is, unfortunately, and how it is related to some cases, and how it is related to certain political parties. The reason, and that's why I'm talking, that's how I'm gonna talk, because I don't want to get in a fight on this one, is sad, and that's why it felt SPO, she felt DS. It's clear to me that some people don't feel any solidarity with us, since it's completely natural. When I say that we were beaten, arrested, imprisoned, kicked out of work, just those who call it cheap demagogy, they did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3593	Mr. Wolfie, would you like a replica? Here you go, and we're done with the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3594	So, all clear, Mr. Chairman. The former speaker from the former regime spoke in the Rules of Procedure, and I answered the line, so it's all clear. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's good that some of them here talk about the demagogy of those who were, above all, victims of their persecution, but it's pointless when you talk about solidarity with you, because I don't know what I'd have to do with you. If you ask about Mr Djindjic, we regret very much that Mr Djindjic was killed, we sympathise with his family, his wife, his children. If you think you deserve something, no, because of what you did, you deserve something else, and it was an organization of robbery in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of Serbia, so you ordered a vote from Bodrum and Thessaloniki. We'll never get back together with that, Mr. Pitytich, that's the difference between you and us. As for the SPI people, yes, we are terribly sorry and in the most terrible way we condemn the villains who dared to imagine such a thing, not even to implement it, but we are passing laws that don't apply to you or to any other individual, but to all the citizens of this country. That's what we here have to take care of. If you're going to pass laws that will apply to one, two, three or four or five people, just because it suits you in an election campaign, then you show how small you are. I know that there are political reasons for this. The minister found well for you to say – well, it's not exactly that reason, we'd find another way to extend detention, another base, and so on, but if you say it's a reason and that the law is passed for five, ten or 50 individuals, then this National Assembly shouldn't do it. No national congregation should ever pass the law for one man, no matter what his name is, no matter what he did. Especially you don't have to tell us from here what, how and how it was done in the previous period. In the previous period, there was no question of whether we were admitted to the Council of Europe and how much citizens supported the "Sabbe" action. Well, no one who politically opposed you at the time of "Sabbe" was allowed to break his nose, except that we could come and show that it wasn't true and that no one would publish it. You were accusing people at the time... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie. I'm finishing up, Mr. Michaelovich... innocent people that they're killers. And where is your solidarity with the four sons of Vojislav Seselj and his grandchild, and you declared their father and grandfather a murderer, Mr. Pajtić? You declared him a murderer, without the right to answer on any television. When we call and say, "I'm sorry, we're not murderers, we're not murderers, we're not murderers, we're not bans, you're murderers." Then why didn't you arrest us if we were killers? Enough of that nonsense of yours. We've heard everything. And how you had nothing to do with it and that... (Chairman: Please, Mr. Wolfie...) Who met with Mr. Xantulis? Boris Tadic or me? Who was their middleman? Myodrag or Milorad Ulemek. There were other names there. (President: Mr. Wolf, you have extended the minute, please). Just so this money doesn't fall off, I'm done, it was a certain Lecic Lek, but it's not a minister, it's another one of those units that helped him. There was a Pejakovic-Pele and there was a Palace, and where they were meeting... (President: Mr. Wolf, indeed, one minute and a half you have extended). I'm done, Mr. Michaelovich. ... In Hayatt and Intercontinental. What were they doing? You'll judge us and talk about it, talk about "Sabre" all the time and lecture us. You won't, Mr. Pytich, but when we win, very quickly, we won't be chasing you, we won't be chasing you because we think otherwise, but for all the crimes you've committed, be assured, you'll have to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3595	Article 100(3) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3596	So, I'm advocating a violation of Article 100(3) which says that no abusive expressions are allowed, as well as facts and evaluations, etc. We have heard a previous speaker that is being promoted to the cord of democratic thought and action in Serbia. We've heard he's taking on the role of prosecutors and judges in various court proceedings. It's about a man who was the promoter and author of the famous Information Law, who also contributed to the democratic thought and work in the Republic of Serbia. It is a party that was in power at a time when a political organisation was declared a terrorist organisation only because it was very disturbing, and it was about the Resistance, because it was very disturbing, because it was not fighting at that time for power and because it was consistent and wanted life in European and democratic Serbia. So don't lecture me on democracy, you representatives of the former government, or the former regime. Please move to the topic of this agenda point. We can talk endlessly about who's a bigger Democrats or who's a bigger European. What is certain is that there is no need to defend the Serbian people from us. Where you Serbian people defended, Serbs don't usually live there anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3597	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm very pleased to hear my predecessor's "courage of democratic thoughts," eagerly awaiting his words, and I'm ready to answer them. So, Mr. Pajtic, the SRS was the political organisation that prevented the adoption of terrorism laws, which would make some parties terrorist. The SRS prevented the JUL proposal and it was not voted upon, what you later carried out in action, only much worse than it had come to JUL's mind, than theirs, those who imagined it could think. Mr. Pitiæu, we have not participated in this business, unlike you, and yet when you are attacked most, we will say that we do not allow your party to be destroyed. When you were shot at by the eggs and when the stones buried the building, on that day Vojislav Seselj, as a corpus of democratic thoughts, held a press conference and said that this must not be allowed, that no one in Serbia can ever think of it again and that no one should think of driving the Democratic Party out of the premises on Proletarian Brigade Street, regardless of being taken from the Dipos's housing fund, because they must not violate political freedoms. That's the difference between you and me. When you came to power, the only thing you did was persecute the people who were in power before you. There's no such thing as an ex and ex. We're the opposition, and you're the former regime. I'll explain theoretically why. Because when Republicans win the Democrats, it's not the republicans of the former regime, it's just the former regime that fell, the ones that lost in the election, and that's you, you're the former regime, not us, Mr. Pititić, so much so that you know. It's about theories. One more thing, the Information Act (as a corifier of democracy thinks that I will answer that as well) was brought to you at a time when the state of Serbia was threatened. I can see that I'm being criticized today by many of those who wrote that law. I'm not even gonna talk about it; I see, that's when they liked it, and now they don't like something. That law, at the time... two norms should be changed today and would be ten times better than others: it is only a law enforcement body and 24 hours should be conducted in criminal proceedings before regular courts. (President: Time) So you can put everything else on today, and that's done at the time before the aggression on our country. I guess you can see what that looked like. And without aggression on our country, you introduced no one to listen, let alone say something against your government or against your party at the time you were in power, both with law and law because you were the law. He who opposes you, he goes, so put the electricity on his head, then the electricity on his feet... (Chairman: Please, time) ... Then the individual organs go into the drawer. So much for those who try to stand up to you or say something different. That time has passed. The time of freedom is coming, the time of those who opposed you, Mr. Pitiæ, and I have one more piece of paper, if you come out again, to read some more names, Mr. Pititić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3599	I'd like to ask you not to challenge the replica, because we're really going to go on forever like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3600	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to hear these names spoken of by Mr. Vukic, so I must advertise the violation of Article 100(1), which says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, namely to treat the National Assembly as the highest house, as we often like to say, bearing the truths and not passing on to each other something that is truly pointless. It was a torture of many over the 1990s, and it was obvious during the action "Sabbe" of such outbursts - it was all for condemnation. I don't think Mr. Wolfie involved someone in electricity, and I hope you don't think that I involved someone in electricity, and you're talking to me. So that's something that's principled for every conviction. You remember that moment when the "Sabbe" action began and when some politicians' hacks began, that is, demanding that some politicians be banned -- the first people from the Democratic Party said it was inadmissible. I was one of the first to say it was absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable. I don't think it's my fault, as I don't think we should be grateful to you if you were defending the Democratic Party's premises during the bombing, because I guess it's natural and normal if we want a democratic and parliamentary system. What is also a fact that Mr. Seselj, mentioned here, was a political dissident before Milosevic's regime, and you know very well who defended him when he was a political dissident, many people from the DS and many people who are now at the top of the DS. I'm giving you a chance to read what you have, but please, when you're talking about DS, then you're still telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3601	Mr. Vukic, he didn't take offense to the party. On the contrary, he praised you. You really don't have the right to a replica. He didn't take offense at all, he spoke in a positive sense. Mr. Angelkovic is looking for a replica because it was mentioned 15 minutes ago. I'd like to ask you to finish your dialogue. Here you go, Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3602	Mr. Pitiæ doesn't think about what he's talking about. That's his main problem. I have to be honest -- when he says they never instrumented the judiciary, he's trying to hit the mental set of all of us who were MPs in the past term and who were opposition. It is a direct insult to all MPs, not only to the MPs of the SPS but also to the SRS, and to all 12.5,000 people arrested in the action "Sabbe". Mr Pajtic, do you know that Minister Djelic ordered financial police inspectors to file criminal charges, that he directly gathered prosecutors and ordered criminal charges to be filed, and against me personally. Only no criminal charges have been filed against the one who was not in Goran Vesic's notebook, but those have not been filed. In Chile, fewer people were arrested during the military junta than here in the Sabre action. Don't think. These discussions are important too. I thought you only got together at Schiller's. Now I understand you've been gathering in Hayatt. It is important that the public of Serbia find out where you've been gathering together. I now understand why the SPS initiative to form a polling committee on the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic did not pass here. Because you'd probably find out that information, where you've been gathering and why. As for the late assembly, the SPS will never enter parliament before it gets the law, that it has the opportunity to submit amendments. When we saw the law, discussed and submitted amendments, we entered this room. But surely the Assembly would have started early if the DS had respected its parliamentary obligations and entered the O.R. in time, not to wait for the Members of the funeral to continue to work. Therefore, respect your obligations, and that you are trying to profit politically from a law that is completely normal, which should and should be in this procedure, I agree, but it is not too late and now to bring it into line with European legislation, where you are trying to make a deal with those who are neither MPs nor ministers, and you are inventing a reason for the adoption of these laws, it is more like you. It doesn't matter. We have offered an amendment that solves and these issues that have been discussed here, which is to prevent those who have been charged with the most serious crimes, up to 40 years, from being prosecuted for up to four years, and two years for those who are not charged with such serious crimes. I'm convinced it will be accepted and it would be good to pass this law, and don't make up hot water where it isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3603	Mr. Pitiæ, he didn't take offense to the party. Here you go, but don't cause a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3604	I thank you, Your Honors Chairman, I really have no intention of delaying this debate. I appeal to Article 100(2), which says, "The Members of the People are obliged to address one another with respect." I think Mr. Angelkovic needs to be distracted that the sound in this room is working. I don't understand why such a hysterical reaction, nor did I mention Mr. Angelkovic's party, I was talking about crimes that took place in the 1990s. The fact is, they were happening. I didn't name the guilty, the inspirers, or the employers. If Mr. Angelkovic is identified in some of this, I am very sorry, I did not think of him, although the party in which he was in those 1990s had absolute authority and produced those structures that led to such crimes. That's absolutely true, and there's no reason for hysteria. Political points come together when you attack someone who absolutely didn't call you. If it's really in your best interest to have this law in your best interests, you claim it is, and we've waited seven hours to think it's not in your best interests, then let's start working on how Parliament looks.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3605	On what basis, Mr. Angelkovic? He didn't take offense. [[Zoran Angelkovic: Based on replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3606	What do you mean, it's not? Mr. Vice President, he said I acted hysterically. I wasn't, Mr. Pajtić, I was just amazed to hear what Mr. Vukic said, who your leader was meeting with, which individuals he was meeting with, and what you're saying, one here, and what else you were doing in Hayatt. For something like that, I think he'll be hysterical about reacting to our public, not me. I'm just as startled as I was astounded by all these statements by the former interior minister, who claims he didn't issue a statement at the time of Sabela's action on the SPS, which you're talking about here, and we can't find out who from the government on behalf of the MUP issued such a statement accusing the SPS of crimes. So that's what this is about, Mr. Pititice. It would be good to agree your reactions and attitudes and what you did at the Hotel Hayat, if it is true what MP Vukic is saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3607	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? National MP Vladimir Homan, authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3608	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would agree with Mr. Pajtic and appeal to this House to return to the debate on the law, not to turn parliament into a Spanish soap opera, because there are MPs here who want to, although they can't, even though they try to act as Democrats can't even act like those Spanish actors. Let's get back to the law. I would disagree with the assessment that this law is in the process because of a few people. If it is not important for anyone to pass the law and comply with the Constitutional Charter, respect the international agreements and obligations that this country has made and comply with the Criminal Procedure Act, it is important to us. I must say that the G17 Plus MP will in principle support this law. If the previous assembly of parliament had worked for the last year, I believe this law would have been in the process before, but since it hasn't, here it is now and it's good that it is. Like any law, this law has its own good and bad sides, so I'm going to say something about both sides. Article 2 of this bill, I would particularly like to stress that the rights of persons deprived of liberty have been extended, and this is in line with the conventions and international agreements that I mentioned earlier. It's for all praise. In particular, Article 20 applies to my fellow lawyers acting with the authorities of the MUP in a pre-crisis procedure, and they have extremely big problems to collect their claims, as the Ministry has so far not paid them any money, so it is doubtful whether any of the lawyers prefer to participate in the work, and thus it can also come to a threat to the rights of detainees. The position was added to Article 193 under which compensation is paid to lawyers under the official duties set by the Ministry of Interior by the MUP and not by courts, as the ministry has so far claimed. I must say, there are a very large number of disputes in which the attorneys are prosecutors, and today. Disputes are being held in courts. I don't know if any are solved. The Constitutional Court has given its opinion on this, however, for the time being that opinion is not respected by first-degree courts. We'll see what happens when this law comes into force. Article 26 speaks of the suspension of criminal proceedings. It is now not only on the prosecutor but must seek the court's consent, which is also a good provision and a good change. In particular, I would point out that Article 28 extends the deadline for preparing defences for serious crimes. That's 15 days now. That's very important. As for fines (Article 29), they have indeed been greatly increased. They are ten times bigger for defenders who have been called on neatly did not come to search to delay the proceedings. Perhaps this should be considered in the sense that the fines are slightly reduced. Also in article 59 where the fine is now due to a breach of the procedural discipline of 100,000 dinars. I would also point out Article 69 where it is imagined to stop the provision of the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in preventing organised crime; the possibility of detaining and detaining up to 24 hours of potential witnesses has been abolished because we were able to make sure that certain abuses occurred in these situations, that people were detained for 24 hours in custody for no reason. As far as the worse sides of this bill are concerned, I'd only list a few. For example, in Article 27, the internal affairs authority can carry out, according to this proposal, an insight into the pre-criminal procedure and the actions for which the sentence is prescribed for up to 10 years in prison. So far, it's been five years. We believe that this is indeed a great authority for the internal affairs authority, and the reason that so far the provisions burden the work of the investigative judges is not satisfactory. This may need to be considered and amended. Article 41 provides for punishment in the procedure prior to the main search, not only for acts for which fines are prescribed but also for acts for which a prison sentence is prescribed for up to three years, on the grounds that the existing solution is too narrow. It's also a great and significant authority. I think we should consider amending this provision. Of course, as for the Article 16 that is most attacked here, which allows double the length of detention from Article 146 of the existing law, I would like to say that, of course, it is not directed at individuals who are now in custody, but right now, as it stands in the bill, it is very imprecise, and I have seen that there are a lot of amendments to which this could be corrected. According to the current proposal, virtually whoever is in custody, whatever crime is charged, can be held in custody, theoretically, as has been said, for 7.5 years. It adds that deadlines do not run in some cases. There is also a failure, where it is said that if the defendant is not present, deadlines do not run. It's going to be an amendment. He must, of course, be present if he is in custody. The detention is the most difficult measure to ensure the presence of the defendant in the process and should not be interpreted so extensively. There are indeed great problems in our legal system as justice arises. This law has been somewhat exaggerated in preventing the possibility of abuse of procedural rights and I believe that with the more efficient work of courts, which there is no word in this proposal, this could be avoided even without these changes and changes that we have here, and that it is also necessary to consider such a way of amending this criminal code. But since we have a lot of amendments, I hope that these amendments will improve the text of the law itself and we will succeed in adopting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-24-0.u3609	Thank you. We're finishing today's work. Continuation is tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 12th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 132 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, so we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Gordana Komic, Slobodan Mihajlović, Ivana Kovacevic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Dragor Hiber. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Criminal Procedure (the follow-up of the principled search) Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to speak? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's Messenger Istvan Ispanovich, please. He's giving up. National MP Petar Jojic. He's not here. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic, and let National MP Milan Stevovic be prepared.
