ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8839	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 104 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Lazarevic, Meho Omerovic, Zeljko Ivanji and Dusan Mrvos. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON THE PEACE OF WORK CONTRIBUTIONS (the follow-up in detail) I remind you that at yesterday's session we started a debate on the amendment of MP Dragoljub Anastasovko to Article 34. It's a bill of law. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Jankovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Simonovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Bosko Ristic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8840	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, has made a lot of remarks about the content of this bill. One of the most important is the fact that the bill provides that an appeal is not allowed against a solution in an individual dispute. This is directly against the constitution, as the Constitution guarantees two-stage decision-making and guarantees the right of the party to an effective and timely legal remedy. Since the draft law here excludes the possibility of making an appeal, this is how the parties in this procedure are placed in one anti-constitutional position. On the other hand, arbitration, or arbitration, is placed above the judicial authorities, which have two degrees in the decision, with the right to appeal, which has a suspension and devolving fact. This means that the time limit of enforcement is delayed and that directly the senior body has the right to review, at the request of the party, the correctness of the application of the law in a specific case. One more thing is not well regulated here, which is the question of justice, i.e. the enforcement of the solution, that is, the decision that has been made on the peaceful solution of the individual dispute. Here, lawfulness and enforcement are linked to certain moments which are contrary to the principles in other procedural rights, especially in the Law on the criminal proceedings, which also constitutes a breach of the legal system and the introduction into Serbia's legal system of a law that is in conflict with the basic rules of procedure in which civil disputes are resolved, including labour disputes. That's why I think this is another reason why the minister should withdraw this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8841	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8842	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Mr. Minister is not present for this debate again, because I think the debate is very important, because we rarely have the opportunity to put ourselves in front of the MPs. So this kind of bad law has probably not been seen in this National Assembly a long time ago. It is simply a question of why we, practically the second day or the third day, are discussing this law and why only four amendments for the whole day passed yesterday. When I thought about it, I realized that the reason for it was just bad law. As bad as this law is, I'll only give you one example. This law wants to regulate procedural matter, and that is clear to all of you, therefore, the procedure to determine the rights and obligations of one's own. You see, other laws that regulate procedural matter have several hundred members. It's simply necessary that the procedure itself be illuminated from all possible aspects. But this law has a total of fifty and a few members. The CAP, the CAP, the Law on Administrative Procedure, are the laws of four hundred members. So, with four hundred members, what's the procedure, the party's behaviour in front of the appropriate authority, their rights, their obligations, and the skills that we mentioned here yesterday, etc. And this law, which also has material and legal and procedural provisions, has a total of fifty members. I really don’t understand that a person’s thoughts with such a legal solution will be arranged in any way, even if it is a calming process, even if there is even the best intention of those who act, or those who are in front of the appropriate authority, to settle. As far as Article 36 is concerned, I'm just going to say one word, how unspeakable everything is. For example, in article 35, he says, "If an arbitration panel considers the case to be disputed so that it can decide, it concludes the debate." We have no idea if there's any deadline here that he's asking to make a solution, except for that general deadline that it takes 30 days to complete the procedure. And he can end the debate within five days, people who are eager to settle, come, settle, and then he waits, he can wait 25 days to make it up. At the very least, if it's an instructional deadline, if it's a pre-exclusive deadline, so no one knows. And what happens if he doesn't make it in 30 days? Here's what's gonna happen if he doesn't make it within 30 days. The minister's not here. I'm terribly sorry. Here, that's another question I'd like to hear the answer to. Article 36 states: "Arbitar delivers a solution to the matter of the dispute within 30 days of the date of the opening of the debate". So, again the same deadline and again the same question, the instructive and pre-exclusive deadline, what if it doesn't bring a solution within 30 days? Believe me, last night I once again took a simple look at this law, aware of the fact that we're going out a lot for a pay phone and that we're trying to point out the flaws of this law, simply wanting to reaffirm one of my views once again, that this really isn't right. And yet I couldn't find answers to these questions that I would simply like the minister to give me an answer. Now, one for me is a very significant question. I'm left with a big dilemma, and I'd like someone to tell me, I'm talking all the time about Article 36, is it as in Article 26, so ten members before, when it comes to collective disputes, does this solution have the power of a court ruling? Please pay attention, the very important question - does the court verdict have any power, is it true that after taking such a judicial, executive solution, as it says here, is the rule, is it true? Is there a rule of heaven and I'm going? I hope you understand. So the question of all the questions in this part of the law is whether it's a matter of judgment, if this is how it's put here. If it is a matter of judgment, why is the right to appeal to such a verdict impossible, or to such a solution? Well, we can't do things where we're dealing with someone's rights and obligations, despite the principle of volunteering that's here under great doubt, disabling the right to appeal which is constitutional law and which, I say, is a civilization fluid, and every right to an effective cure. Practically, the same nature of the dispute as those being resolved in court. There's only one difference - there's two degrees, there's no one here. There's just one more difference -- there's a dispute led by judges under the Law of Prosecution, meaning in detail to matter, it's being run by someone who's certainly not a judge, because later on we'll see, when we get to the conditions, which he has to meet, and these are highly professionally prepared. I don't know if you're familiar with this, but in the existing Law on Prosecution, it's so important that these questions are given that even in working disputes, audit is allowed as an emergency steam medicine. Of course, an audit is allowed even when the property dispute is over a certain amount of money. We come here in a situation that in this dispute not only isn't an audit allowed, but people don't even have the right to appeal. Therefore, this law, through all these members and through what we will talk about later, really shows that it is unsustainable in our legal order. The fact is that we need a law that would regulate this matter and therefore we ask the minister again to make the best solution for the government, for us MPs and for Serbia, which is to withdraw this bill from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8843	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Goran Dunjic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title of Chapter IV, the title above Articles 38 and 38 be deleted. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8844	The fact is that this amendment is correct, from that point of view, that the proposal should be deleted, although it may be different initiatives than ours when we criticise this law, but here's what this is all about. In addition to the question already asked by the Minister a few days ago, because here we skipped Article 37 on which no amendment has been submitted, and that is whether he is aware of the fact that there is no standstill in the process of the new CAP. So, after my presentation, there are two more questions left, and that's whether it's a verdict, whether it's the end for those who unconsciously entered this process and then couldn't get away with it. I particularly don't understand what will happen when the arbiter who conducts the procedure commits any violation of procedural or material rights. Does the moment the worker, who is economically weaker, engage in this standstill procedure, receive a blue envelope that says, do you want to sit still? He says, "I am," not knowing that he went into one procedure that he's not coming back from. He just can't go back to the moment he gets involved in the debate. After that whatever he does, the arbiter makes a solution, and that solution is just and enforceable. Do you understand the dangers for workers who agree to engage in individual disputes in solving their problems as provided for by this law. As for Articles 38 and IV, the condition that it has a high professional capacity and at least five years of work experience in the field of employment is at least a non-serious condition. He should be involved in a very serious procedure, which judges do in courts. We're not going to compare someone who's finished any college and the game of the case was a reference to a sick person in a company or was a reviewer for writing annual vacations, and now he's supposed to be doing the same matter that was actually done by a judge who had graduated from law school, so he's been an intern for two years, and he's been an expert associate for several years, and then one day in front of this home he's chosen as judge to decide rights and obligations, about freedom, and sometimes life (of course no more) for citizens. He's supposed to conduct such a procedure, not someone who signed up for some public ad agency and elected as an arbiter. It's a completely bad solution and I honestly don't understand it. I don't understand the legislator of those who wrote this law. It also stands at point 4 - the dignity of the peacemaker’s duties, or the arbiter. It's just so general and if you look at the Constitution part of this is practically written as those parts of constitutional matter. This is a law that needs to work out what constitutional matter is. I have the impression that on the legal and essential side this law definitely failed and I think Mr. Minister had to consult well and well to check before he came to the Assembly with a bill like this. I repeat, the DS thinks there should be a law like this, but we really didn't expect anything like this in those worst thoughts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8845	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8846	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, article 38 provides for a choice of peacemakers and arbiters. For a peacemaker, or arbiter, a person for whom an ad is previously called by the Agency may be selected. The conditions he must meet are that he has at least five years of work experience in the field of working relations. This is a legal standard that is not defined by law and leaves the possibility of major abuses. Whether experience in the field of employment can also be considered as having a signed contract for more than five years, and that is the experience of working relationships, because as a party to the labour contract he had experience in working relationships. This precision of conditions and the absence of criteria leaves the possibility of selecting persons who absolutely have absolutely no competence to settle disputes based on working relationship for the arbiter, i.e. the Peacekeeper. What's a special nonsense is that a person should not be punished for a crime that makes him inappropriate. The issue of similarity has not been regulated by any law. So far, there has been experience regarding the regulation of these conditions that have established the basic legal chambers and the Republic Bar of Lawyers, so the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Constitutional Court have, on several occasions, put aside the general acts of the Republic Chamber in the area where similarity, or dignity, has been foreseen to perform certain functions. The issue of similarity points to political resemblance. A similarity in a different sense can mean likeness, that a person who likes the authorities can be a peacemaker or an arbiter in the process of peacefully resolving work disputes. So, this is how the norm is set, this is the provision laid down by Article 38 of the Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes is unarranged and unconstitutional. This provision would place potential candidates, who would be elected for peacemakers or arbitration, in an unequal position because they do not see who would decide who is similar, or worthy of doing this function. That is why I believe this is another reason why the proposed law breaks through the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. This bill is counter-constitutional, and candidates for peacemakers, or arbitration, are placed in an unequal position before the Constitution and are left at full will to the calming agency, i.e. for the peaceful settlement of labour disputes, which represents one extended bureaucratic arm of the government, to decide on who is fit or suitable to participate in the peaceful settlement of disputes between employers and employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8847	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. Before you go, I want to welcome the children of Dimitrovgrad, who are guests of the National Assembly organized by the OSCE. They're present at the gallery.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8848	Dear children, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this whole set of amendments by the SRS is aimed at the same thing. In fact, we want to completely change the intention of the legislator to regulate this matter by adopting and accepting some new legal institutes, what kind of peacemaker and arbiter they are. We want to narrow it down to the legal aid service, because it's incomparably better, simpler, lower costs, because it would be incomparably more competent, legally coherent. What I'm trying to say is that the terms, and the conditions we talked about yesterday, which are necessary for the peacemaker and the arbiter, show that there would be major problems in practice itself. In fact, five years of work experience, or high professional preparation, means absolutely nothing to make a solution. So it takes someone who not only has a working experience in working-legal relations, but someone who is legally motivated to come up with a solution, to know how to write a solution, to know how and how disputes can be solved. Unfortunately, the legislator did not take care of it, did not worry much, but I am sure it will correct the adoption of one of the amendments to the SRS MPs, and I see that DS MPs with enthusiasm have accepted these amendments of Serbian radicals. You know, if someone or DOS's regime had said similarly what we've been doing for two or three days, we wouldn't have been exactly behind bars, but we'd be running such a fierce media campaign through our media, it's a question of how you could manage and what you could do. It wasn't that long ago, we remember everything, but it's a good thing that they changed the board too, and that they learned that the opposition had the right and the obligation to criticise the laws and proposals of the authorities and that nothing interfered with it, not because of themselves, not because of the opposition, but because of the citizens of Serbia. It would be good, in that sense, for the President of the Republic to provide us with those new jobs, which he has already said, and we do not see that he has provided us; those higher salaries he has announced for Serbian citizens and those greater pensions for Serbian citizens. None of that seems to me, except for Mr. Tadic's marketing promotion. I see he's been announced to speak to the citizens today. I guess that's what she was supposed to do every day. They say, imagine, people come to the president and say – give us a new job, and he says – imagine a terrible thing, looking for a new job. Well, they're asking for what you promised them, they're asking for what they heard from you in the campaign, and now you're thinking of wondering, because it's not your jurisdiction. What kind of jurisdiction, you knew about it in the campaign. He may have been misinformed, but anyway, he cheated on the citizens. Where's your minister? Is he coming? There's a man who's got better things to do. His law is on the agenda, and he has something more important to do right now. Remind the minister, ask him to reconsider before he enters this hall, and perhaps listens or conveys to him, to think again, because it would be good for the opposite, and we will probably pass a law on litigation, about the institute of rest and stasis, and for everything we have spoken about and legal technique, but also for the essence and for the material right itself, to withdraw this law, to complete it, to partially amend it and to deliver it in a changed form to the National Assembly. This would also be the best solution for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if in this way it were not to embarrass itself, and also for the National Assembly, because in that case it could pass one required law, one law that would provide workers in better, faster, and fairer ways, with employees in work-law disputes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8849	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8850	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, the members of the 100th were offended by DS MPs and the dignity of the Assembly. Not one moment did DS MPs explain, let alone defend the amendments to the SRS. Our approach to this law is completely different from that of the MPs of the SRS. What I can see as a fact is that I am particularly pleased that now, in the follow-up of the debate, the MPs of the SRS understand the objections made by DS, which are exclusively of professional and legal nature and refer to the fact that the adoption of this law would result in the collapse of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Because this law is incompatible with one applicable law, the Labour Act and its provision in Article 153, and is not in accordance with the provisions of the two laws on the agenda of this assembly, which is the law on public agencies, as well as the law on litigation. In this regard, the DS has also made amendments and only in this regard has the DS discussed in the course of the debate on this law, both in principle and in particular. So, to remind you, the DS finds it very important and necessary to pass a law on peaceful settlement of work disputes, in order to regulate this issue in our legal system, realizing that this is the new right that we need anyway. At the same time, we feel it is necessary to withdraw at this time this law from the procedure in the Republic Assembly, because we cannot accept the collapse of the legal system. The fact that in this law, as a colleague Vukic just did, for the first time, in front of the SRS, there is an institute of rest that no longer knows the law on litigation. This is a problem which is indisputable at the moment, since the law on litigation knows the institution of suspension, which is completely different legal institutes, which have different rights and consequences in relation to the legal entities in the dispute. Comments on the law on public agencies and objections to the labour law may be corrected by amendments submitted by the DS parliamentary group. By adopting them, that problem would be removed. Unfortunately, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there is no longer the possibility of removing the gap in the question contained in Articles 30 and 37 of this Law, and therefore we are not able to support this law in this form. As for the obsession of DS and Mr Tadic, he did one big thing in the last election: he beat Mr Tom Nikolic. As for the desire to know certain things from Mr Tadic, it is no problem at all, you can schedule a conversation at the National Office and get all the necessary information that you are interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8851	National MP Alexander Vucic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment we are discussing is currently the amendment of MP Goran Dunjic-Dunje. He is the People's Messenger, whom parties -- the SRS -- are not DS. He never was, man would've been offended if someone had mentioned it to him, if someone had thought it. It's about an honest man, an honest host, a man who's never taken anything from anyone, stolen, taken from anyone. He always presented himself with enthusiasm as a Serbian radical. Let me tell you something, whether there's an obsession or not, you know who people are obsessed with. I don't want to tell you about it. As for what you can get in the People's Office, I know what you can't do. People can't get what Boris Tadic promised them, and he promised them a job. They laugh at people who come looking for work. People come looking for everything they're told they'll have, they're said to have a higher salary and a higher pension, and that Boris Tadic will provide them with it. He didn't provide them. Let's see what Mr. Tadic did. He says, my distinguished predecessor from this pay phone, he did one big thing, beat Tom Nikolic. To defeat Tom Nikolic, head of the SRS, you needed to invite everyone else from the so-called democratic bloc, and Vojislav Kostunica, Mladjan Dinkic and 50 other leaders to support him, so that you could all almost defeat Mr Nikolic together. Did we cause a problem here? Did we say it wasn't true? That same evening, Tomislav Nikolic called Tadic, congratulated him, revealed the results, but I have to ask you what the Serbian citizens got, because we know what Boris Tadic got, and you're right. What did the citizens of Serbia get? Apart from those who got that comforting telegram after 6:0, to lose 5-1 to Australia, is there anything else that Serbian citizens have won? Did they get anything other than police cordons outside the building of the People's Office of the President of the Republic, when the naked and bare-boss citizens of Serbian nationality from Kosovo and Metohija wanted to talk to their president, so the president told them, sorry, I don't have time for you, my marketing agency when they told me, and I guess today they told him, then I'll talk to the citizens and how I will, and not when people and citizens need it. I can see you're in pain with what I'm saying, which is why you're so nervous, I know you'd take away my word, you'd charge the fine, but your time has passed. So, the time of the abduction, the taking of everything, the crime, it's past time and it's never coming back again. He understood the people who are Boris Tadic. Mirrors, mirrors, enough -- mirrores, people want to eat bread, people want to live better, people want to live with a man of dignity, they want to change, they want to fight corruption...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8853	You're out of time, one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8854	I'm finishing up, Mr. Vice President, and I thank you for your patience. He wants bigger salaries, he wants bigger pensions, he wants new jobs, everything Mr. Tadic said so nicely and so quickly, so easily and simply forgot, as soon as he was elected President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8855	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragutin Peric. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Dragutin Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8856	I have submitted an amendment to Article 39 in front of the SRS Parliamentary Group because I believe that this member of the proposed law should be deleted. And yet for the reasons, as far as matter is concerned, we know that it is regulated by the Labour Act, that there are procedural and legal rules, that is, the Law on litigation, and that all proceedings arising from work disputes should be conducted before regular courts. In the specific case of proceedings arising from labour disputes, a regular court or a municipal court is in charge. In this way, the Government is trying so openly to suspend workers' rights stemming from the Labour Act, in a completely voluntary way, that it would try to mediate between employers and workers in such a way that the agency will call a competition and on the basis of a competition that can arise, or on what terms, who can compete as an arbitration or peacemaker, and then the agency forms a commission, and in the form of a commission that should carry out the selection of arbitration or peacemakers, two representatives of the Government, two representatives of employers and two representatives of the representative union enter. From this provision, it can be clearly seen that the situation can be seen, if it is a public undertaking that, given that the Government is giving two representatives, and also two representatives can give the EPS, that this relationship is a force with this commission compared to the representatives of the workers 4:2. What do I want to say? So, at the very beginning, in the election of the Arbitrarian and the Peacekeeper, it is clear that manipulation can occur, given that the relationship between two representatives in front of a government institution or a government enterprise, I took the EPS as an example, it is a public enterprise, so as to manipulate the choice of a peacemaker and arbiter. Also, I would like to point out that working disputes under the Labour Act are in the jurisdiction of regular courts. This is how the Court Act is suspended. How to explain to judges that they need to stop the procedure that has been initiated and whether it is at all an obligation, in what way to force the parties in the dispute to notify the court in good time, and how to force the judges, i.e. the first-degree court, the municipal court, because there is no solution for the parties to agree, procedural parties, prosecutors and prosecutors. So, that the president of the council can hold a debate if the parties agree without a council, because the positive regulations that are in force are regulated that the debate must be held in front of the court council. So it is not left at the will of the parties that they give consent that this debate can be held. Also, the court is obliged to violate the Law on Courts, if it is in its jurisdiction, and to continue not to act, as well as the procedural parties, whether by emergency with the President of the Court, whether the Ministry's emergency will speed up the dispute, because these are interested parties in the dispute, and we know that the dispute under the Emergency Act is due to end within six months.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8857	The word is from the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, after two days of debate on these amendments, I finally resolved the dilemma of why MPs Boris Tadic voted in favour of the amendments to the SRS. I was afraid that for some reason they weren't supporting us, but I realized that they were actually supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia. (Glasses: How? You don't understand how; now I'm going to tell you how. We insist that the Government go before the MPs with the Labour Act. The DS is very concerned that this Labour Act is being applied as long as possible, since it is the law, you remember, which Mr. Novakovic voted for by the Thessaloniki remote control, and now they, in order for this debate to last as long as possible, come out to defend the amendments submitted by the SRS MPs, only to gain time, so that we do not do serious work, and serious work is debate and adoption of the new labour law. The 39th article to which MP Dragutin Peric submitted the amendment should certainly be deleted, because what is foreseen about the selection of the peacemakers and the arbitrationist is indeed one such papazian, so many people engaged in the selection of the peacemakers and the arbiter that I no longer know, if these were some paid jobs, we would really no longer have employment problems and even the President of the Republic would not have to engage, even though he promised new employment. But I see something else, here they're just an employee peacemaker and arbiter, and everyone else is only working until they're elected. Among other things, he says, the choice between the candidates reported is being made by a committee to elect a peacemaker and arbiter, and then the commission is being made by representatives of the government, representatives of the representative unions, etc. that I do not read on, and then – government representatives are appointed by the Government, union representatives and employers' associations to appoint a socio-economic council established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of representative trade unions and representative associations; e, indeed, this is such a conglomerate that it is not clear to anyone what was wanted. Maybe the minister is, but now he's not going to explain it to us. And it would be better, you know, if I were to go back to the Labour Act that would help these young guests very quickly, who looked at us a little bit, and now they're leaving us, if there was a law on the work of the provisions that was abolished, that they could when they finished their schools to be hired through the competition, then it would really make sense, not to choose a commission like this at the competition. But that's why there's no competition in employment, but who hires whom, it goes according to whether he's his personal friend, whether he's a party colleague, etc. Only employment happens on that basis. That is why fellow Dragutin Peric, on behalf of the SRS, suggested that Article 39 of this law be deleted, with that of our remarks from the beginning of this debate – that this law should not be passed at all, that this is one bad law, which absolutely means nothing in the legal system, and especially in the field of working relations, which will not give any effect and that no single dispute will be settled under the provisions of this law. It will still be done exclusively through competent courts. So it's not too late, since yesterday so many laws were withdrawn from the agenda, let's contribute efficiency to the work of this assembly and invite the minister to withdraw this law, so let's keep working, because they are much more significant laws off the agenda, and we spend three days on this law that, I say, will never be applied because this is an inapplicable legal regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8859	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Milan Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8860	This amendment, of course, is not to be accepted because I don't see how to choose adversaries differently if there is a erasure of this member of the law. I really don't understand my colleagues from the SRS, and I don't know why we have to explain what we're doing here ten times. So we don't support amendments to the SRS. I know you'd want to, but it's simply off, that we support your amendments, because your amendments are, unfortunately, completely pointless. We're talking, using our right to appear on amendments relating to individual members of the law, in order to explain that a good idea, which we support, is one law that should definitely be passed, in this case we should withdraw from the procedure and make it much better than he is now. That's our money. We try to explain it, and we care so much about it that we'll answer for the word by each member of the law, and we'll always make an observation where it stands. As far as article 39 is concerned, it's still a matter of indiscretion. We don't know how many arbitarians are chosen. It is very important that it is stated in the law. Can't do it by sublaw or otherwise. And here, I also heard a remark, explained to me by a colleague that this is not a matter of judgment, so I would ask him, once I'm through this class again, to whisper now -- which is a legal remedy against this thing. What can be triggered? A lawsuit in the administrative dispute? Can a lawsuit be filed in a work dispute? What can be done? Here, another fellow lawyer says - he can't. So explain it here. If we MPs, and here's a lot of DS lawyers, for example. Bosko Ristić with over 20 years of internship, Mr. Vukkovic with 25 years of internship, if none of us understand it, then there is something not well written here, all of it and that it was your wish. There's one more question left for these to hang in the air, and I'm asking for an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8861	Thank you. Wait a minute, you're looking for a replica? (He speaks to the Messenger Wolf. What's the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8862	I didn't understand why you were so nervous, and I don't understand it in the DS lines, and I guess you got lost, because that time of yours or I don't know what it must have been long ago, and I wasn't afraid of you back then. You don't have to be rude to a pay phone. I will launch an initiative to print one book, bon-ton, so that you know what and how it is done when it comes out for a pay phone; how it speaks to fellow Members; in what way to communicate with the public and it will go a little bit better for you. So that you may know whether or not they are meaningful, whether or not they are meaningless, and that you are going out to talk about them. They may be like this or they may be, but it's obvious that you need them very much, because you use each of these amendments to go out for a pay phone. And you were lazy or not smart enough to write them yourself, they make sense and they're too smart. Well, I don't know what it is for you, but I know there can't be a third reason. The SRS are trying and fighting, as far as they can, as far as we know, to do something for the benefit of Serbian citizens. It's our only policy. Where we see it's a bad law, we write amendments. Sometimes we don't have enough time. No good conditions. Well, people work at night, and Mrs Radeta, and Zoran Krasic and many others, and they try to make sure that citizens have better laws. And then someone comes out here for a pay phone, who spends all day using these amendments to attack his political opponents, which is legitimate and legal, to come out and say -- sorry, what you wrote is pointless. Well, if it's pointless, don't go out on those amendments. Write down some of your amendments, very smart and wise, so come out and talk about the amendment. Because, in the end, you're criticizing this law, so I didn't see any of these amendments being written, except now there's going to be a demagogue story – well, we're against the law in general, because there's nothing you can do with the amendments, etc. But I think it says a lot more about you than it does about the MPs of the SRS. The difference between us and you is that we always act the same way. This is how we acted when you ruled, when you thought you were somewhere near God and you could decide on life and death in Serbia, do whatever you want, whatever you want in this country, when you could vote out of Thessaloniki and Bodrum to secure the majority and vote certain decisions. All the things you thought, all the things you did, now you stand up to it and that's not bad. I'm afraid it won't get any worse when you're given power again, when you're given a chance again. The best example is what we have today in the building across from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't tell you one thing. In the election campaign, they asked Tomislav Nikolic if he would ever become president and become president in the presidency of Dedinj. He said – since I know there are a number of security issues, I will go. Mr. Boris Tadic said - no, I won't and I don't think I'm going to Santa. The first thing he did for Serbian citizens, he went to Santa's. First he went to a villa in Dedinj, because it was much more important than new jobs, than higher pensions, than higher salaries, than everything he promised Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8863	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8864	I must note that the discussion in this House all these years is mostly going nicely, culturally and politely, until Mr. Vukic or Mr. Toma Nikolic appears, and that is simply true. As far as this is concerned, the remarks that mentioned the first word here were meaningless, the word was mentioned without meaning yesterday and the day before in the discussion, and it was from the MPs of the SRS when they interpreted the law. The minister didn't come out and give the argument you made. I don't even know what right you're challenging our strategy with when it comes to this law. I guess we're right when this law is for certain reasons, which I'm about to tell you now, is that this is how we discuss it. The first reason I don't see what your wisdom and privilege is by writing, I don't know how many amendments of the same, where you're looking for an introduction instead of this institute here that's supposed to be done by these already existing, peace councils, legal aid services. Since you wrote 50 amendments and then you were very valuable. You could have pulled those 50 amendments on the gentry. So it's not worth it. It's just like when you give those familiar amendments of yours, which we remember from the last time, when you write Article 1 is deleted, Article 2 is deleted, Article 3 is deleted, you write 120 amendments is deleted, and now tell me that's not true. We don't argue with you, because it's your way of getting you in a position to explain why you need it. This time we wanted to explain why we didn't pass the law, it just doesn't exist in our legal order. There's no need for what provoked me to get out of here, just a little while ago, is that it's repeatedly being run around here that we're supposed to support your amendments. It's not about that, we have a different concept in access to this law. We want the law to be withdrawn for some other reason and to pass the same law, and you want this law to not exist at all, and that's that. These are the important differences between you and us. Why do you now, when we talk about this law, deal with us, why do you deal with the President of the Republic when it's not a topic? Why now the question of who declared what in the pre-election election campaign for the President of the Republic? It's just, believe me, I find that extremely incorrect. It's not right for you to give me moral sermons about what I'm saying, because I didn't mention Tomislav Nikolic here, I didn't mention an election campaign. I don't think it's right that I'm doing it from here right now and meddling in your stuff, in the way you run the campaign. And you now found it appropriate, as you did yesterday when the discussion and two-and-a-half hours were turned, we lost time, not because of you then, but because of another MP who turned the discussion at one point on the totally personal field of Bosko Ristić. We talked about some amendment and when suddenly for some reason a man came out here and turned his attention to the personal issues of Bosko Ristic. The constant mention of what was four years ago is bad, because we can extend it to what was eight, ten, twelve years ago. Do you guys know where we can go when we start moving each other? It is normal for us to have a lot to say to each other when we have been on the opposition sides for the last 15 years on Serbia's political scene. That way we won't achieve anything in terms of the discussion of the amendments. So I suggest we continue to discuss the amendment, not to mention the President of the Republic, or anyone else, because I simply don't see what the motive for such a thing is and really to deal with a law which, in the end of the day, is not good at both sides. Again, I'm telling you, don't identify our and your actions now, because simply the goals and initiatives of our party and your party are different, and the whole of Serbia knows that the SRS and DS are on the opposite sides of the political scene in Serbia, and that simply in the near future it's impossible for someone to say that we have anything in common with you and you. I don't think I'm insulting either of you, nor is it right for you to insult us on this matter. Simply, you respect us and our political commitment, as we respect you and your political commitment, and we do not insult you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8865	Replica, Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't mind the fact that the Rules of Procedure is neither mentioned nor mentioned, nor any member, nor what I did, but in the end, it doesn't matter. That everything is good and everything is good, and in previous years and now, until Mr. Nikolic and I show up at the pay phone, I can accept that that's how it is for DS MPs. I don't mind. I'm proud of it, I'm proud of it because I know we've never stolen anything, we've fought for the citizens of Serbia and we've fought for those who seduced the rule and thought they could do what they wanted in Serbia. We will always do it, as we did in the previous period, and we are doing it today. I haven't talked about anyone's personal things, and I've tried never to talk to anyone in my political function about personal matters, because I think it's the lowest thing, and I think everyone who's been working with us, has talked to us, knows that we're the only ones who've never passed on any private conversation to any of the media from a congregation pay phone or anything like that. I think we've shown it with absolute honor and that no one can transfer it to us. This is where we talked about something else. We were talking about the President of the Republic, the President of all citizens, not called DS when someone says the President of the Republic. He's supposed to be president of all of us, but we found in the previous local election campaign that he's not actually the president of all citizens, and that's what he said himself, not us. He declared half of Serbia's people, half of Serbia's citizens extremists. Half of Serbia's citizens were shouting, he was trying to help me remember something, I can't remember exactly, but everyone in Novi Sad, at your convention, was threatening to remember. In Kragujevac, he threatened to poet himself. Then I informed him that I would accept the offer if he wanted to, but not to threaten the people, so he called me, and then he talked to me differently on TV Serbia. Is that like the President of the Republic? I don't think so. Such types of threats to those who are not for him or his political party, the President of the Republic must not be made. I think that the most rude are those who insult the citizens of Serbia, who insult them by telling them – we will rule in accordance with democratic principles, because we are a democratic bloc, because we can vote both from Thessaloniki and from Bodrum, and from any other place, if it is not from this room. And you who will vote in this hall, who will go to the elections honestly and honestly, who will rejoice, but not to celebrate and humiliate the opponent when you win and who you will first confess. We're not going to do that, unlike you. And let me tell you something else. Our people worked hard for the amendments, not like you in 1994, and you don't remember it, and I'm sorry you won't hear anything, but what do I do, you probably have better things to do. So, you brought here on a wheelchair of the amendment. We couldn't take them at all. Everyone on their desk has received more amendments than the volume of this pay phone. So much has come, no one has objected. We don't blame you for coming out to talk. Get out as much as you want. Parliament is for this. But don't say it makes no sense for you to go out for a pay phone, even if you don't shut up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8867	Mr. Wolfie...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8868	That's moral. I'm done. I know it's a category that you're not interested in very much in in the Democratic Party. You've never been interested in her. But take care of it. What we ask the President of the Republic, we ask him because today, after winning the elections, he has to do what he promised in the campaign. I remind you once again, but answer me - where are the new jobs, where are the higher salaries, where are the higher pensions for Serbian citizens? This is my question for you, and this is promised by the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8869	According to the Rules of Procedure, the head of the DSS parliamentary group. One moment, one explanation for Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Markovic called on article 100, you've got a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8870	I refer to Article 99 and Article 28. Rules of Procedure. In its first position, Article 99 says, "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." Article 28. The Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3, says the president of the National Assembly is "old on the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly". We have two chairmans who have participated, chairing of course in this debate and the president of the National Assembly, who is not present at the moment, whom I consider to have expressed maximum tolerance in the past two days and today, giving the opportunity to individual MPs to speak contrary to Article 99. Rules of Procedure. I will now explain it and appeal to the chairman not to allow it from this moment on. I think that in this National Assembly, the public must be protected from the kind of abuse of rights for this speaker. I will use the example of Article 39, on which the amendment was submitted by MP Dragutin Peric, who suggested that the article be deleted. Article 39 discusses how the choice of peacemakers and arbitarians in this law is being made, talks about the composition of the commission, talks about how union representatives, employers' associations, are involved in this work. The entire article of 39 is deleted. The amendment itself, therefore, is not pointless, he asks that this member be deleted because the previous amendments instead of the arbitration panel have been introduced by the Institute of Legal Assistance, which needs to be done by this law. We from the Democratic Party of Serbia oppose these amendments, because we believe they are not legally founded, that they are not good, but they have their own internal meaning. So the amendment to Article 39 speaks of this article being deleted for that reason, and subsequently the amendments that follow, if I have interpreted correctly. When a person calls for a word to speak about amendments and obeying the rules set out in Article 99, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure, he would have to say whether he agrees with that amendment or disagrees, and offer arguments about it. So, since the amendment to Article 39 is closely related to the previous amendments, it is only possible to talk here about the subject on the agenda, which is - which is why the service needs legal assistance to do this job instead of the peace councils, that is, the arbitration panel. Which is why we need to get rid of the agency or why it doesn't have to be done. Speaking of anything else, we enter into a debate in principle and thus commits a kind of abuse of rights for this speaker. We had a chance to talk about this law in principle. We cannot use the debate on amendments to talk about the law in principle. I ask that from now on, you stick to article 99. The Rules of Procedure and your powers under Article 28 and don't let anything like this happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8871	Mr. Aligrudic, you started by giving us one commendation that we are exactly the highest degree of tolerance advocated in this assembly. I must tell you that I will continue as well and that the MPs of the opposition, as well as the MPs of the post, have the same importance and importance in this House. That article you mentioned is true that it could be strictly applied. I can only ask the MPs to comply with the Rules of Procedure and therefore rests on the highest degree of my request, and thank you in advance. Here you go. National MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. You by the Rules of Procedure or...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8872	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8873	It's a business thing. Here you go. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8874	Article 100. Democratic Party MPs stick to the Rules of Procedure all the time, talk about the amendment, talk about the law. Unfortunately, we have not been able to convince the ruling coalition MPs to try, at least to try, to explain why they do not want to accept all those remarks that we have repeatedly repeated behind this speaker. We've given four amendments we don't have the answer to. Mr. Aligrudić, I will simply be able to explain to you again and repeat the amendments submitted by the Democratic Party, with respect that you either did not take good care enough, or you did not understand well enough or you did not read it. I don't know, there's obviously a problem. So this law cannot be passed in the view of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group because it is destroying the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Under one, the first amendments we have submitted concern the non-compliant provisions of this law with the Public Agency Act, which was withdrawn from the agenda of yesterday's notification. The second objection made by the MPs of the Democratic Party is the discrepancies of this law with the existing Labour Act and Article 153.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8875	Please, you've called for article 100, and now you're explaining the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8876	Of course, since Mr Aligrudić asked me to explain to him what it was about, I'm trying to explain to him how he would respond to our amendments and remarks, so we would stop going out. We would be happy to stop having a discussion about this law if anyone from the ruling coalition, including the minister, would make an effort to give us an answer. Moreover, we would immediately accept that the debate on this law would cease if our objections were accepted and the law was granted to the legal system that is currently in force in the Republic of Serbia. So the second remark is to the Labour Act, Article 153. The third is on the Law of Prosecution. I cannot understand that no one in the ruling coalition has reported for a pay phone these three days to explain to us whether there is a possibility that these legal shortcomings are simply, in a way, being resolved, that we accept this law. And I don't understand why so much indignation, why so much anger for something I think is necessary to bring, that this law might be applicable. You cannot have a different solution for the same problem in two different and valid laws in the Republic of Serbia. Please, and there are a large number of lawyers in your MPs' ranks. There is also a Secretariat for legislation in the government. I really can't believe Mr. Balinovac didn't see what we've been doing over and over again these three days. This has nothing to do with politics, this is professional, this is a trade question for people who are seriously right, who seriously want to write laws. We have no objection whether the law should be passed or not - it should be passed. I've already said it a hundred times. He's a new law. It needs to be regulated in our legal system. It's totally natural. But we can't put all of us in a position to destroy the legal system. So please don't misread the people coming out of the Democratic Party for this pay phone. We have no problem with this law at all. We have a problem with the fact that you don't want to get involved in the debate, that you don't want to hear serious remarks and no one gave us an answer. I asked for an extension of the debate the other day, when Mr. Minister was there, hoping that we would allow in the evening, when there may be no excessive number of day-to-day duties and scheduled meetings, which, quite certainly, as the minister has, to tell us, to agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8877	Please, in a minute, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8878	I know. He overstepped Mr. Wolf, so you let him finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8879	Yeah, and you're over a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8880	Please let me finish, too. So we asked the minister to meet us, to talk to us. We weren't just able. Now we're not able to do it again. The provisions of the law cannot be amended according to technical changes. It's just not possible. Even the majority of the Republic Assembly cannot make a decision to amend the fundamental provisions of the law through legal and technical changes. Those are our remarks. So I ask you, from a political debate, to return to an expert-legislative and try to pass a law that can be applied in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8881	Replica, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8882	You've completely missed the subject. I was talking about something else when I was talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I was talking about the use of discussion in particular to discuss the law in principle and every time it is, and that's a fact. There's been a lot of noise from this pay phone over the past two days, and the law will be passed, and you're sorry it's not better, and it can't be accepted, and it's better to back down, so at no time knows what your position is, and doesn't even know who your representative was. Dusan Petrovic's authority is allegedly yours. With what authority could he give you authority? That's what's left to float in the air, and you're acting incorrectly all the time compared to the MPs. So that's what I'm talking about. You let your stories go, what you wanted, and how you're having a very professional discussion. You've told this speaker 15,000 times that a legal-technical editorial can't fix something that's the essential thing in the law. It is my responsibility that the error that has been made in the law is a legal and technical error, because whoever wrote the law has relied on a valid institute in the CAP, and there is a related institute in the new CAP, and if it is adopted, and I believe that it will, it would be an interruption of the procedure, so it would have to be applied analoguely. Maybe not, but let's keep it for a session of the Legislative Committee, whose president I am. One more thing, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, I have to read all the drafts of the law and all the amendments, so I have also read those submitted by members of the Democratic Party. So what you said was very rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8883	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic. Specify a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8884	I only have one proposal for the Rules of Procedure, which is that Mr. Aligrudic is not competent, nor an adequate talker on this matter, so let's wait for Mr. Minister to come, because this is the humiliation of the National Assembly not to appear here all morning. It means the Parliament stops working until his arrival. That's the first proposal. The second proposal is to establish the quorum, because I don't think the MP in the O.R. has enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8885	Mr. Markovic, you are not an authorised representative, and you know for yourself who can highlight the proposal to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8886	I apologize to Mr. Chairman. I'm only staying on the first proposal. I can make a proposal by the Rules of Procedure, but I cannot make this second proposal, so that such a proposal will in any case be made by a representative of the parliamentary group. Mr. Aligrudic, I see you've already sat on the side where the SRS is sitting and it's becoming more untasteful how much you want to stick to Serbian radicals. I don't think that's like you as a member of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8887	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8888	Mr. Markovic, what you're doing is not incorrect. It's political. From the day I sat in this assembly hall sitting on this side with DSS MPs in the first two rows. You could be very concerned about what I told you yesterday, which is that you've obviously got a serious problem, two of them. The first is the gathering of the spirit of Cedomir Jovanovic, and the second is a severe infection with the Civil Union of Serbia. You have to take care of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8889	Replication of Milos Aligrudic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8890	I'd just say that first of all, I think it would be a turn and some vice president of the National Assembly, who in a very correct way runs this session, think about it, because I think a break would be the best solution. She's really a charming lady sitting in the front row, but she's not a minister. We'd like to comply with Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia do not have a direct obligation, but it is understood and it is a good custom. There's always been a problem with that, in every government, in every assembly, but at least the one who represented the government was at the Assembly Hall when the law was being discussed, at least one government official. When the budget is or when the election of new ministers, then the whole government comes, they take a nice picture, but at least one government official has always been there. We don't have a minister now. To think about taking a break and finding out where the minister is, what's more important today and then making a decision on a possible break. We'll be there and we can continue our work right now. On the other hand, I want to say one thing that exists more in the media, to look back at what is growing closeness or the sides of Serbian radicals here said. In fact, some media in Serbia and some politicians in Serbia want to present Serbian radicals as some that no one should ever approach, their projects do not accept, their ideas do not accept. There's only one thing I have to tell you, we'll never let you ever again, not to anyone, that the people chosen by Serbian citizens in the vast majority, much more of us than you do, consider in any way the money, the infectious and the snotty, because you're the elite, and this part of the people isn't. I'm sorry, for all of us Serbian citizens are the same. There is no difference between them and we are no one's money, because so much of Serbia's citizens to vote for our party shows that these people agree with our programme, with our ideas and that they want to change. Just please, as I'm going to say to those, imagine he's a radical, not bad, but he's a radical, that's a nice word in Serbian and that means you belong to those who want to change things from the root. This means that these people have entered a party that has its own tradition, which has its own history, which has serious people and a serious political programme. We are pleased when only one thing is mentioned, and that is when some others, some serious people want to talk to Serbian radicals, when they want to hear our opinion, when they want to hear our political views. We are also pleased to know that they cannot speak well of us and when we are not praised by those who have tabled a vote from Thessaloniki, from Bodrum, who have brought Nemanja Kolesar, who have brought those who invented accounts in the Sea and Marshall Islands, those who have robbed in all kinds of ways. I just want you to think about it one more time, to take a break, because that kind of disrespect by the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the MPs cannot be tolerated. It's kind of an incorrect relationship. We here today in the National Assembly have incomparably better relations than we had a year or two ago, and as you can see when we were in the most intense conflict at each place, we Serbian radicals pointed it out, because in an honest and fair way we want to talk about what it is and what it isn't. Don't let this happen to us, that we ask the Minister to hear our thoughts on amendments, that we ask him to withdraw the law from the procedure, that this law is not in legal traffic for one day, and that he doesn't care, that he has a shortcut to work. The minister can't and must not have a shortcut to work when his law is on the agenda. What's he doing today? Why does this girl or woman have to take all of this away from us, and the minister has put himself away, protected himself, doesn't care, he's somewhere in heights. He's smarter than us and why he has to listen to our stupidity, as he says it to his associates, so he doesn't have to show up in this room. It must be if there is order and if you, Mr. Vice President, respect this remark.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8891	We called on the minister, and Mr. Markovic and Mr. Vukic's proposal, which is identical, is partly adopted, and if the minister doesn't show up in a short time, I will really give a break. We're going back to work now. Mrs. Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, you haven't been before, but Mr. Krasic is a gentleman, so he'll give you priority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8892	I must publicly thank Mr. Krasic for this gentlemanly behavior. I had a great desire to report for this amendment. In fact, I wanted to get the whole story back to work, that is to say, the amendments, and break the story of some other things, even though the chairman told us that he would also be tolerated in the future. I think this degree of tolerance, where you talk about everything and everything, is completely unauthorized for the assembly. I think we must respect the Rules of Procedure and work only on what we are subject to, and that is the amendment of the SRS to Article 39. The law. The DS position has already been explained several times in relation to this law. So we think that this law should exist, but we think that this is an absolute misdemeanor. That's why, in fact, I'm joining my colleagues from the DS, it would be best if the minister pulled him out, so we could vote for him and have that matter that way arranged. When we talk about an amendment to Article 39, which suggests erasing Article 39, and provided that the bill remains, because I assume that, by the minister's behaviour, he has no intention of withdrawing it, and also that there is a majority in the Assembly who will vote for such a law, then I believe that the adoption of the amendment to Article 39 would be completely wrong. Article 39 regulates the matter of selecting a peacemaker and arbitarian. If that member were erased, I think the matter would have such a cavity that the bad law would have been completely ruined in this idea as the ministry had when it referred him to us as such. That's why I'm against the adoption of an amendment to the SRS requesting the removal of Article 39.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8893	Mrs. Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, I assume you didn't think yourself that in this House you should seduce such discipline to be like in the police academy. Perhaps someone would like to see this parliament run in the old way, and MPs tend to speak, punish themselves, but I repeat that I will not do so and that this will be a parliament full of tolerance. Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8894	The amendment to Article 39 would have to be accepted in all variations. He has such a flaw that he threatens all possible concepts of the law. That's what you have to say. I don't see who would defend this member, would anyone have the courage to come out and defend this member. On the other hand, in the Labour Act, which is likely to suffer some changes, there is a provision on arbitration, as one form of peaceful dispute resolution that arises, whether collective or so on. individual labour disputes. You have now written in article 39 that the choice of a peacemaker and arbitar is made through a public ad published by the agency. That's where you slave that floscule from three or four years ago "transparent." Do you realize what it means if someone is publicly invited to apply for a place of peace or arbitration? There are transitional values of society, but I have to tell you that in the development of some societies, all these social partners looked pretty much like criminal sects. You know the phenomenon. The port workers' union in America, it was held by the mob. Not to tell you who all the other associations were holding certain unions. We also have certain unions held by employers, as do the Industrial Association, and the man sells impulses. What does it have to do with industry? The name doesn't match his performance. But we can do anything. That's the problem of transition values. Since someone there said that transition implies transparency, to make it all clear, then by slaved to that principle, there is something written here that must be said that it is pointless, but pointless has its continuity, so it is said: "the choice between the candidates reported is being made by a committee to elect a peacemaker and arbitarian". It's, like, like that commission that decides on a public tender, like some competition commission. There is no state in the general collective agreement, but there are unions and employers, but with the commission: two representatives of the government. What would the government be interested in who would be a peacemaker? The government has shown us that it is not interested in applying the law, so that there is no dispute, but is now interested in seeing who will be a peacemaker, or arbiter. Totally unnecessary. Then he says "representative trade unions established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, two representatives of representative employers' associations based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia"; and then he says "the government's representatives are appointed by the government, and representatives of trade unions and employers' associations are appointed by the socio-economic council". It is the previous point, which was also transferred as the government's advisory body, to a special para-state body. We don't really need this law and this law, because this is a law against peaceful dispute resolution. The climate and conditions that such or similar laws do not exist in Serbia. In the country of Serbia, a man who works with a private must choke, suffer and cooperate with his boss when the labour inspection comes. He must not object when it comes to vacation, paid, unpaid leave. Give him protection through inspection and strengthen his rights, and do not write what cannot be done. In this congregation, everything can be declared legal only if there are 126 cards. Soon there will be charges for that extra card. In that assembly there was one Radovan Bozovic, who said – if I see 70 hands in the air, I will declare the country a quarter. In this congregation, the Law on lustration, which will never come into force, will never be applied. A state of emergency has been introduced. Things have been done, things have been messed up, but time has run over, the Constitutional Court doesn't have to, time has run over something, nature and society are over something. This is gonna be nature and society to throw away. God forbid we spend three days on something that's really pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8895	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Vitomir Milosevic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vitomir Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled the amendment and requested the removal of Article 40. Proposal for a law on peaceful dispute resolution. In view of the previous amendments to the honourable colleagues of the SRS parliamentary group in this chapter, it is logical to propose to be a member of 40. The proposal for this law is deleted, especially in the light of the introduction of something in this way that reminds the famous courts of joint work, which have in some way created legal chaos. It is obvious that Minister Lalovic's argument is illogically trying to employ as many administrative workers as possible to prevent strikes by dissatisfied and disgruntled workers. I share the opinion of my colleagues from the SRS, above all, on the interest of workers that a more appropriate place to resolve work disputes is the service of legal assistance in units of local self-government and for this reason I believe that the SRS’ objections to this bill should be seriously considered and accepted by any suggestion that the proposal should be withdrawn from the procedure, precisely in the interests of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8897	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we should support the amendment to Article 40. The draft law, in paragraph 1, where a decision on the selection of the peacemaker and the arbitration panel shall be taken within five days, i.e. 15 days from the date of expiry of the application. You know that the SRS is against the introduction of a peacemaker or arbiter, precisely because it introduces a small-door agency that will additionally burden the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is perfectly clear that similar amendments will not be adopted to him, as there is no proposal to regulate this bill. This is seen from the explanation when he refused the amendment of Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 1. It's a bill of law. This much leniency and identity in an explanation for the refusal of amendments is simply not recommended, even if it is from the minister, it is a lot. In this regard, I recommend that the minister accept the well-intentioned advice of the SRS MPs and withdraw the proposal of this unsettled law from the procedure, because it is better to do so now than later when it is seen that the law is bad and inapplicable in practice. In that sense, I would like to say that in today's paper I read one, let me say, a very strange title, where it is said -- neither the DSS, nor Vojislav Kostunica should worry about the curse -- may the Vuksa have entered the party. I think we Serbian citizens are victims of a much wider curse, which is -- that is -- that is, you, Boris Tadic, were the president of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8899	The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8900	I would first ask a question, therefore, which is a short time while we wait for the minister, because my objection to this amendment would have to be answered by Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8901	I'll tell you that the minister is expecting any minute now. So it can't be extended for more than half an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8902	Okay, then I'm gonna have to repeat what I think I'm going to put in an objection to this amendment. My remark is more about the inability to resolve under this law, and about Article 40, than about the fact that I don't think the amendment should be accepted. I ask the question, these deadlines that have been given to us by law, when you look at the argument at the end of the law, you see that it takes 30 days to choose a director. Great, good afternoon, Mr. Minister, I need you very much right now, we're making an amendment to Article 40. So, the SRS has proposed to delete the 40th. You missed the explanation and I won't repeat it, but now I'm going to say what I have for that amendment. The law provides for a decision on the selection of a peacemaker or an arbitration panel to be taken within 15 days. However, in the light of the law, it is provided for the Director of the Agency to be elected within 30 days or appointed. The law enters into force on 1 January 2005. Mr. Minister, if you don't adopt this amendment that we're talking about, how will you honor all these deadlines in such a short period of time?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8903	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8904	Good morning or good day, I don't know what's wrong with you, but we've been working here for two hours. Now, I'm going to sublime you, if you and the chairman both, we left a few questions for you, so I'm asking you that in that final speech of yours around 5:30 p.m., when you record television specifically, answer. So for a member of the 35th, we asked you what time is the arbitration officer due to draw up a written solution. Then, for article 36, we asked if this 30-day deadline was instructive and what would happen if it didn't. We have asked the question of the inability of the appeal, because the appeal is constitutional law, the European standard is and everyone has the right to an effective legal remedy, regardless of their volunteering and we believe that there was a place of appeal. Third, we asked if it was a right, I mean an executive solution, a ruled thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8905	Please speak of an amendment to Article 40.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8906	Here, the minister writes exactly what I'm saying. So, is it just a matter of judgment, is it in different rules, can we turn to someone, and after that, if we can talk to them, who's the one we can turn to, whether it's a regular court, whether we're going to a administrative dispute? Other MPs have asked for rest, and have you been able to find out that the rest is no longer there, etc. And those are some questions that hang. As for this, I think you've made a mistake in one thing, it's that this council has two members, two from the representative union, two employers, two from the government, and that decisions are made by a two-thirds majority. I don't think it's disputed to bring in a two-thirds majority, but to put in a modality, or to modify it in such a way that the two-thirds majority must be made by members of each of these groups, because it can happen that the government and employers have a two-thirds majority and that this package that unions have has no meaning at all. So that's one suggestion, if you pull the law and make a new one, it would be good to find it in that new law. Thank you and I'm glad you're here so we can keep working.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8907	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8908	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is already 44 attempts in writing to convince you to withdraw this bill, or most in the Assembly, that this text of the law is not declared by law. The moment the employer delivers a decision to cancel an employment contract, then any conversation between the employer and the company's status has ceased. At that point, an employee who's been fired can only request the protection of justice at the court. Those deadlines are short. After that, it may request protection from the labour inspector, and if the labour inspector assesses that the provisions of the Labour Act are obvious, then it may suspend the decision to fire and return the employer to work until the court proceedings are completed. There is no better arbiter in terms of authority, authority and shortness of procedure than an authorised worker in the image of an inspector, if he does his job. If the inspection does not work well for some reason, whether material conditions, human resources, technical conditions require training for work, so there will be far fewer disputes. Dispute can only arise if an employer misses because of his hasty and ignorance and does not resign under the Labour Act. All other disputes are unnecessary and illusory to lead them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8909	Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8910	It wouldn't be bad for this amendment to be adopted in any case, regardless of why we have different reasons for objecting to this law. This expression – the finality of the choice decision I have never met before, and I don't know what it's supposed to mean. Well, due to the introduction of some new weather and rappers during such an amendment could be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8911	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Mr. Prvoslav Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8912	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Dragan Colic, the SRS MP, has submitted an amendment to the draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, which requires that a member of the 44th Law be deleted because the SRS cannot support the establishment of another agency, whose existence is for itself a purpose, because the municipal agency established by this law, Article 42, is run by a directory of peacemakers and arbitarians, and since the SRS considers that labour disputes should be run by the legal aid service, which exists in all units of local self-government, it is therefore excessively the existence of an agency for the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. Therefore, Article 42. The bill becomes excessive, because if you accept the SRS concept of not setting up an agency, there is no need for any directory that would be run by the agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8913	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mihajlo Stevanović. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP, Mihajlo Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs of the SRS Group are proposing an amendment to delete article 43. I believe, as well as my predecessors from the SRS parliamentary group, that this matter should be left to the services of legal assistance in the municipalities. This would allow for a more direct and efficient resolution of work disputes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the practice has shown that the amendments of the SRS parliamentary groups to the bill's proposals, however well-intentioned, in this assembly's assembly session, are condemned to not accept from parties in power and their half-trons. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that in this year we have had two electoral cycles, and it is a unique conclusion that Serbia has had enough robbery, misery and corruption and that the interest of the nation requires the arrival of honest, fair, smart and responsible people to power, and Serbia has such people and they are in the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8915	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Prvoslav Savic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk ambassador, Prvoslav Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 44. Proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. The member is said to be obliged to report a change in the data referred to in Article 43, paragraph 2. 3) and 4) of this law within three days of the change occurred. By amendment to Article 44, I ask that it be deleted because the SRS MPs have put the previous amendments peacefully resolving labour disputes in the jurisdiction of the legal aid service, which already exists in municipalities, so that the existence of this service does not require a peacemaker and arbitr, which the Government has proposed, so there is no need to report any change in data. The proposal, i.e. the Government, also proposes to this law the education of the Republic Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, as proposed by the agencies for alleged needs in some other areas, which the assembly majority also adopted. The agency, along with already formed, will create additional chaos in the already chaotic state of these areas. The bill's only a sad consequence of the tragic labour law, which left thousands of people out of work, and some without a life, committing suicide because of the despair they found themselves in. The government, if adopted, will only increase costs and thus further burden taxpayers, or citizens of Serbia, with this law. For these reasons, I propose to the Assembly, or its MPs, that they accept the amendment to Article 1 of the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, which states that these tasks are carried out by the departments of legal assistance in municipalities, and thus accept the amendment to Article 44 of this Law, which requires the erasure of a famous peacemaker and arbiter, and thus to delete their application for a change of residence, i.e. data.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8917	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8918	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, you were right, the minister came... And the truth is he's gone. [[Laughter]] Okay, as far as Article 44 is concerned, and it's a real shame the minister left, you can see exactly this situation. So those things that were supposed to be in the law and they were going to work out some institutes and they were going to processically complete that matter... I don't know where the minister is, but we'll ask that later; so basically to complete this matter, they're gone, and then to fill out what's called "meat", there's a peacemaker and arbiter provision, they're obliged to report a change of data, or change of address, etc. Do you realize what nonsense that is? So here we have one norm that absolutely can, but before we have to, it doesn't have to stand in one law, and we don't have a number of those norms that should stand in law, if someone really thinks that any procedure in which to decide on someone's rights, obligations, or to determine some facts is being carried out. Now, it's just another picture that speaks in favor of our application, I don't even know how to call this our quest for the minister to withdraw this law from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8919	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger John Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment and I ask that Article 45 be made. The draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes is deleted. With this proposal, i.e. Article 45 regulates the property of the peacekeeper and the arbitration officer as well as its erasure from the directory. The SRS is against the concept of this bill, and therefore this amendment is in line with the amendments submitted by my colleagues from the SRS. That's why I'm asking for the 45th in general to be deleted. When we know that we have a bad labour law, which does not guarantee workers any rights or any minimum rights, by this poor bill of law, you will take away a little of the minimum rights of workers. So I ask the MPs to accept this amendment of mine, unless the minister withdraws this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8921	Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8922	What I have to say is very important to me to have Mr. Secretary here. Does it make sense for me to talk if there's no Minister? There isn't. Maybe he'll still come during my exposure. The DS, as regards the amendment to Article 45, thinks it should not be deleted, i.e. to accept the amendment. However, there are so many solutions in that article that would be very good if they didn't, that we're simply in a dilemma. Under point 5), if he performs his duties unequivocally and unwittingly, the question is how, who decides when the Agency Act exists and is regulated there in another law. Unsettled response, how is that estimated? Unjustified delay, in which way people can conclude that someone is unjustly stalling. If something lasts objectively for a long time, as it will be deleted from the directory under the qualification that it has unwarrantedly stalled this due to death and on a personal request, I simply don't think it should be commented. One or six points really in this article shouldn't stand, but we don't support the amendment just because there's still something that should remain in this bad law, if we happen to vote it, that one day it has to be applied, or that we try to apply it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8923	On what grounds? According to the amendment, but Milan Markovic contacted you earlier. (Milan Markovic, from the scene: I am a gentleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the Vice President of the National Assembly, we've been joking a little bit, when we've had this much time in the Assembly, then a man has to react, he's human, but I would ask you, but here's the minister, now that he's coming in, to really answer some questions, not to come in for five minutes, and then come out, because that's not to say that we're not important, it's not about the vanity of any of us, it's about the fact that the citizens of Serbia have chosen us. Please, since we have, we have had a large number of amendments, we have talked about the essence of the law in principle, since it has been heard really bright remarks about the contradictions between the arrangements of individual institutes in this and some other laws, which are positive or some laws that have yet to enter legal traffic. So, to make your point, to tell us directly what your opinion is, so that it could possibly survive in legal traffic, which and what interpretation, what is what your position is and ask you to stay. Otherwise, I went out for a pay phone wanting, because I can't withdraw the amendments, to tell you that the MPs of the SRS won't answer for a word anymore, because it doesn't make sense, because the government doesn't respect them, and the resolution minister isn't at all in the O.R., but since you're here, please, Mr. Minister, to come out and tell us that you're going to be able to apply this if it's contrary to the same norms that regulate the same thing in the Criminal Procedure Act. And in what way will someone who has a working experience of five years and only a high level of expertise, and not a lawyer, be able to make solutions, as well as how all of these other things we could talk about will be applied. In five minutes, you don't need it anymore, I'm sure we as MPs will understand it, and I'm confident that after that, the discussion of all of us will be incomparably shorter. I promise you on behalf of the SRS MPs that you will answer these questions specifically, as possible and as far as possible, only one man will come out for his amendment and we will end this debate as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8925	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8926	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you are here again. I think I really need to join this discussion of the predecessors, and I would ask you to do that, because we think they're here, I say again from different positions, but there have been serious objections to this bill and it's been going on for the third day. Look at article 45. The Peacekeeper, or the arbitration officer, shall be deleted from the register if it is subsequently established that the conditions laid down in Article 38 of this Act have not been met. My question to you is very direct. Legal consequences, a decision taken by that minister, means a direct question since there is no right to appeal, that we have not yet established whether or not it is possible to initiate a court case, whether it is true or not. What about the solution made by such an arbiter, whether it survives, does not survive, if it can be attacked, which regular or extraordinary legal remedy can also be attacked in front of which authority, or before which court, unless the matter is decided again. If it was a verdict, then if we were to apply the Law of Parley Procedure analoguely, whose subsequent application here is not foreseen, which I think is a mistake, that would solve a lot of things, whether there are extraordinary legal remedies. The emergency legal remedies are not mentioned here and I would really ask you to look at article 45 and point 1) in point 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8927	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Đuricic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have prayed, I mean in the most kindest way possible, the minister to come out just to answer a few questions and to end this. The minister didn't want to do it for me for an unknown reason, as if it were difficult. No problem. If you, Mr. Minister, don't want to hear it, we wanted to hear your attitude, tell us how it's going to apply and what you're going to do. He asked the vice president of the National Assembly before he moved on to the new amendment. A new amendment has begun, and you do not want to continue to address the MPs. We of the SRS parliamentary group, no matter what I think only our amendments are left to the end, will no longer answer for the word, and you ministers, please, if you want to say something, and if you don't want to, you don't have to. I think the citizens of Serbia have seen who is the one who disrespects them, because disrespect for the MPs is disrespect for the citizens of Serbia, those who chose their representatives in this high house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8929	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8930	Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Rankovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8931	Your Honor, Mr. President, although I fully agree with my colleague that this has lost all meaning, I cannot understand at all this inconclusive position of the minister. I'll add one more question. Article 48 discusses the exemption of the peacekeeper and the arbitration officer, and now says what reasons for the exemption are, that I do not list them, etc. You, Minister, probably know that about all the other procedures, and the reasons for the exemption may be, there are those who are required, where the ex-office comes with the exception. There are also those where you don't have to, where it's appreciated whether an exception should come, etc. But in the event that this ex-officio does not have an exception, it is an essential violation of the rules of the procedure whoever did it and naturalised the decision that was later made can be attacked for these reasons etc. My question now and here for you - what if one, any of these faces, is not excluded on request for exemption and you make a solution? So again the same question - do you understand what we want to tell you? What's going to happen, you weren't there, the problem, Mr. Minister, is that you wanted to solve in about 30 members, the process, the whole process. Procedural laws have four hundred members, not 30 or 40. Do you see what these are now miss and what mistakes can you encounter in a further application? Here's another particular question, you don't have to answer, it's your right after all. MPs decide if it's okay when they vote. If you were simply able, with a working group doing the law, to search these questions, there are them in a stenogram, these specific issues where we did not deal with politics, but we were dealing with strict matter, to search and see for yourself whether this law could be applied or not, or maybe it would be better to make a slightly more serious law that would require, almost per article, some more serious addition. So it starts with what we told you yesterday, about art, and then on, some more serious addition. So I still don't understand the question of legal medicines, regular, emergency, consequences of illegal decisions, the consequences of disrespecting the imperative provisions of this law and the consequences of non-compliance with deadlines that I don't know whether they're too inclusive or instructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8932	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stojan Tintor. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lalic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 54 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8933	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, this is one of the amendments tabled by the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party and refers to one of the remarks we made, which is that the provisions of this law are not in line with the provisions contained in the law on public agencies, which is also on the agenda of this call, the truth was taken down yesterday, but I assume it will be discussed at the next meeting. So, in that sense, we have submitted this amendment, asking for Article 1 to be deleted and, in fact, this law to be brought into line with the law on public agencies, so I hope that, in that sense, the Government and the Minister could accept this amendment so as not to bring down the legal system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8934	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Stanimirovic? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Stanimirovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 55a be added after article 55a. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8935	The amendment was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group because we feel it is necessary to bring this law into line with the existing Labour Act. And we think it should be accepted for the reason in Article 153. The labour law lays down how to resolve issues in the application of collective agreements, in particular collective labour disputes. And he says, "the controversial issues in the application of collective agreements are resolved by the arbitration which the participants of the collective agreement educate within 15 days of the date of the beginning of the dispute; the composition and way of the arbitration is governed by the collective agreement". This means that this is not about disputes that have been decided in accordance with the Labour Act, but about how collective disputes are resolved, after the law on peaceful settlement of work disputes is in force. Therefore, it is not a problem for existing disputes to end in accordance with the current Labour Act, but we believe that unnecessary confusion is being introduced and that the same problem is regulated in different ways in two, if this law is adopted, the law in force in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so our amendment is aimed at requesting that the adoption of this law be effectively derrogated, i.e. deletes Article 153 of the current Labour Act and thus effectively prevents the violation of the single legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8936	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Milan Stanimirovic? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? Here you go, Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8937	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, in the context of this debate, I was already at the beginning, I think I have given an explanation of the key remarks made by the parliamentary groups. When it comes to this law on dispute resolution, the key objection by the representatives of the SRS was regarding service and legal assistance. On several occasions, I explained why we can't accept it, why we have a different view, and that's why I just didn't want to keep reporting and explaining the same thing. I think it was completely unnecessary. On the other hand, when it comes to discussions of other MPs, above all, the Democratic Party, in most cases, was not the place to argue here. If there are any misunderstandings by the MPs, let them ask our professional services. In fact, whether the deadline is exceeded or instructive is simply not the subject of discussion. I can say, if anyone's interested, that the deadline is 30 days old, but getting into those details now, I think it's unnecessary. That was why I didn't take my word for it very often. It seems to me that I have been able to explain as a proposing the essential part of this law. It seems to me that I have succeeded as a representative of the promoter to explain that the peaceful resolution of work disputes does not fall into a matter that can be resolved in front of the legal aid service. It seems to me that I've been able to explain that it can't be connected in this way to a direct solution from this law and the CAP, that it's different things. There have been a lot of misunderstandings of that nature, where you don't understand the nature of these relationships, so it keeps going back to the CAP and stuff, and it has nothing to do with this. It's a whole other story. When it comes to amendments by the Democratic Party, for example. about the Labour Act, to be regulated there, so here, you don't understand that these are two different procedures. Also around the agency, it couldn't be swept under that law. We explained all this, so now suma suma sumarum all down, the law on peaceful settlement of work disputes I hope will be adopted in the Assembly and it will allow workers in Serbia to conduct disputes that will end within 30 days, not within 30 years. Of course, provided both sides accept that this is the solution to disputes. Those who do not want to accept to settle disputes in front of the arbitration and the peacemakers, they will be in charge of court disputes for 30 years. That's their thing. We want this law to introduce into Serbia a different practice, a different logic, a different philosophy, especially the philosophy of dialogue, rather than the philosophy of conflict. I know it is not easy to understand after 60 years of communism and Milosevic, it is simply psychological problems, but I am sure in time, that all of us sitting here, throughout Serbia, will understand the value of dialogue, that disputes should be resolved primarily by dialogue, only in the final instance of conflict, and I think that this law will contribute to the change of consciousness in Serbia. For that matter, it is this topic that was also present, of course we do not allow this law to strike as a right of workers. We're just saying when it comes to vital services, social services, that we want them to try to settle the dispute peacefully first, so as they can't solve let them go on strike, let them fight in another way. Just one more sentence, this law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, I didn't say that, but in the end, it is fully in line with the social partners in Serbia, with all trade unions and all employers' associations. Every letter of this law is fully in line, so I think it gets a special weight when we talk about this law, because I think the social consensus, where we reach it, is extremely valuable. It has been achieved here and I expect from the new year that in this part, slowly but surely, we will make a different Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8938	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: - Stop duty, RELATION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE FUNCTIONS For this item of the agenda, you have made proposals for decisions made by the Committee on Justice and Administration: 1. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, 2. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction, 3. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Judge of the District Court in Sremska Mitrovica, and 4. Proposal for a decision to relieve the court's duties as judges of general jurisdiction. On the occasion of the motion for a decision on the termination of office of public prosecutors, who also submitted to the Committee on Justice and Administration, you received a notice from the Committee on Justice and Administration that, in accordance with Article 139. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, draws from the procedure of the National Assembly, the draft decision. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Does the representative of Proposer Jovan Palalic, chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do any of the MPs in article 89 want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motions for decisions, does the proposing representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Since we have conducted a unique search on decision-making proposals, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposals for decisions, in general. We'll take a break. We'll continue to work on the 21st agenda. This is a proposal for a company law. You've been informed that the remaining points have been withdrawn in the meantime. I'm taking a break until 2:30. May I have your attention, please? I'm sorry, it was missed in addition, we skipped the 20th item of the agenda. We move to the 20th item of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE DECISION OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA For this point of the agenda, you have made proposals on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which were submitted by the parliamentary groups G17 plus and the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Do they want the word of the promoter's representatives? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) Does anyone in article 89 want a word? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Since there are no statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Before I conclude a unique search on the motions for decisions, do the proposing representatives want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Since we have conducted a unique search on decision-making proposals, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposals for decisions, in general. Once again, I apologize for this technical error. We continue at 14.30 p.m. with the 21st point of the agenda - the proposal for a law on companies. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Economic Society (Principles) According to official information, 97 MPs are present. Please, before we begin work, we'll determine the quorum for work. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have enough MPs to work with. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Jovan Palalić, Milos Aligrudić, Milica Gavrilović, Vojkan Tomić, Radmilo Milošević, Milutin Pešić, Željko Tomić, Zoran Nikolic, Vjerica Radeta, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Antic, Darko Glisic, Stevica Dedjanski, Aleksandar Mirdjevic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Natasa Jovanović, Petar Jojanović, Bozidar Koprivica, Ljubomir Kragović, Momir Marković, Vojislav Milajić, Igor Mirčić, Milorad Mirčić, Sreto Perić, Ivan Radović, Milovan Radovanovic, Branislav Stamenković, Branislav Stevanovic, Milan Stevanovic, Goran Cvetanovic, Milan Cvetrović, Milordović, Vito Mirko Mirić, Vito Mirić, Vito Mirić, Vitomir Božić, Ivan Žlužić, Žlužić, Žlužić, Žlažić, Žlažić, Žlažić, Žlatić, Žlažić. You have received notice from the People's Parliament of the Witch of Radete to withdraw the amendment to Article 33. The bill, which was submitted on 12 November 2004. The amendments to be submitted until the opening of the original search will be sent to you during the session. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee. The report of the Legislative Committee contained a legal and technical editorial of the text of the draft law, which was carried out by that committee on the basis of Article 140(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, agreed by a proposing representative. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: SRS - one hour, 38 minutes and 24 seconds; DSS - one hour; DS-Boris Tadic - 44 minutes, 24 seconds; G17 plus - 37 minutes and 27 seconds; SPO-NS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; SPS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs and three NDS MPs, each five minutes, based on Article 89. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that representatives are authorised on this agenda point: for the SRS parliamentary group Zoran Krasic, for the DSS parliamentary group Jovan Palalic, for the DS-Boris Tadic Vlahovic parliamentary group and for the SPS parliamentary group Jovan Todorovic. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Dr. Predrag Bubalo, Minister of Business, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8940	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to the National Assembly to pass a law on companies, as one of the most important laws for the functioning of the economic system, for the following reasons, of which are the most significant: the need for harmonisation with the regulations of the European Union, the harmonisation of the legislation of this area with a large number of laws adopted (Privatisation Act, the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments, the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, etc.), transferring the jurisdiction of this regulation to a republican level, following the establishment of the Serbia-Montenegro community in 2003. Also, given that there have been relatively many times since the adoption of the Company Act in mid-1996, and that there have been serious changes in the comparative and domestic legal scene, it was necessary to approach the creation of a new company law. This, in fact, goes to meet so-called. The second phase of the transition legislation, during which other countries have passed the last two years in transition, as well as some developed countries. As the change is called the Company Act in the company law, it is imposed for two important reasons. The new name has been universally accepted in EU countries, except in Great Britain, which has the Company Act and special laws on social society and command society. In a legal sense, the company is not a legal concept and cannot be a legal entity, but a legal entity can only be a business company, which is a business operator as a business activity and entrepreneurship. I also note that the term "trade companies", which use the countries in the environment for their laws (Croatia, Slovenia, Macedonia), is not accepted for the reason of removing language doubt, because in our terms it is difficult to explain that the provisions of this law apply not only to companies, but to all companies that carry out economic activity. The essential principles on which the provisions of this law are based are: the principle of harmonisation, the principle of completeness, the principle of importance of the objective function for determining the concept, the principle of equality, the principle of tripartiteness, the principle of compatibility of legal forms, the principle of strengthening the institutions of responsibility, the principle of transparency. This law regulates new institutes, and they do not know the applicable Company Act, and the existing ones regulates it in a new way. In order to facilitate the procedure for the establishment and registration of the register, the introduction of a founding act, therefore, as a general act and as the only constitutional act for all companies, as well as the existence of an assessment of non-financial roles by the founders themselves in a limited liability society and a closed stock company. The prescribed capital minimum for the establishment of a limited liability company in order to encourage new forms of society should be significantly reduced, which is what this law does. This law regulates: a branch of a company which can establish a domestic or foreign company, a business name instead of a company, the nullity of enrollment of the establishment of a company only on the basis of the prescribed law, the principle of loyalty to the company of members of a company body and a control member, i.e. shareholders of a company. Therefore, the question of conflict of interest of members of the company's body with this law has also been extended to control members of a limited liability company and control shareholders and this has been made more transparent. The principle of resolving disputes under this law before trade courts, although it is a non-partisan procedure with the prescribed deadlines. In addition, this law introduces a lot of newspapers in a limited-responsibility regulatory society, with a limited-response company, and with limited-responsibility companies, they look at the flexibility of the law, allowing the very members of society to adapt all institutions in this institution to real needs, while, on the other hand, with a shareholder society, especially open society, the regulation of a dominant character, in order to protect the interest of investors. In contrast to the applicable Company Act, this law makes a clear distinction in the procedure of setting up stock companies with public registration of actions, open societies and companies established without public registration of actions, so-called closed societies. In particular, the process of availability of large-value assets is regulated to protect the confidence of non-marketable companies, company administrations and control shareholders and members of a company of capital. The issue of protection of the so-called minority of shareholders and members of society, the minority by capital and the number of votes, and the existing Company Act needs to be significantly improved and extended, takes a special place in this law. The provisions of this law do not cover public undertakings, since there are specific laws on these companies, general and special, while the status of social enterprises and social property is bound by transitional norms for privatisation deadlines. As this law regulates the status issues of entrepreneurs, its adoption ceases to apply to the Law on Private Entrepreneurs, except for provisions relating to the registration of entrepreneurs in a particular register. The transitional and final provisions regulated the question of the deadline for compliance of existing legal norms of companies with this law. So, two years from the date of entry into force of this law, with a guarantee of the legal certainty of bankruptcy rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8941	Thank you. I'm asking if the committees want a word. The Committee on Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, Dragor Hiber? No, I don't. President of the Legislative Committee Milos Aligrudic? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, so Mr. Jovan Palalic. I am taking the opportunity, by the time Mr Krasic arrives, to inform the members of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations abroad that the session will begin this morning, November 12th, 2004 at 11.00 p.m. today at 1600 p.m. in the second floor, by considering the amendments submitted to the proposal for a law on companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8942	Given that a large number of amendments have been submitted, it is likely that during the debate the minister will inform us whether or not something has been accepted, that we know that we are directing the discussion where amendments have not been adopted. In this first report, I will take the opportunity to talk about those provisions of the proposed law which the SRS did not cover with amendments, because the largest number of our amendments is legal-technical and has a purpose to clarify some of the provisions so as not to bring about problems in the application of this law. At first, I must point out that we simply continue to practice getting incomplete or very bad texts of the law. When this law is read, we can almost be sure that whoever wrote this law was not only aware that a few months ago the Law on the Registration of Business Entities and the Law on Vulnerabilities was adopted here, so that not only did you see the termological, conceptual, but also in the whole chapters that the subject was missed. It was probably some inherited text of an expert group, which, according to what you stated in the explanation, had to go through an emergency procedure, since it is related to some of the terms with which the government is in charge. At first, I must tell you, the Vice-President of the Legislative Committee of the French Assembly Xavier de Roux has the custom to make it clear to all representatives of transition countries that if their country is a candidate for the European Union, then that state should not prescribe unreadable European laws (it is their sense of what their laws are), but those states that are in transition all of this should simplify it. So not only because of the grammatical meaning, but because of the simple reason why if someone meets something new and some new institutes, then these new institutes should be understandable in his native language, not in a language that would mean that while you're reading, you should hold a dictionary or maybe use some other books. If it is observed in terms of and legal and technical terms, this bill is below the level of the existing Company Act. So there's no such clear difference here what societies are, what capital societies are, and since there's no such clear difference, then there are failures in defining certain types, or as they're now said -- the legal forms of companies. And I have to say that terms like "the branch" are used. For those of you who have little understanding in this area, it's business units of companies, dislocated, and now it's a branch. You know, he's not fully worked out in this bill. Perhaps a big remark can be made about it, although there is some indication in one member, but it is still just a hint that something is forbidden. This law does not prevent the abuse of a legal person, and this particularly applies to members of the 14th and 15ths who are unsettled, and the abuses of legal persons in these status issues are both the result and the cause of some of the phenomena that we have every day to see, if not on the street then to read in the paper, or to hear from neighbors that he is unhappy with the assembly of shareholders, or the decisions of the board of directors in this, until the end of the unfinished, system of privatisation. In Articles 104 and 194. The bill of law you have unwarrantedly raised the maximum number of members of society with limited responsibility and a company of shareholders. We tried on the Legislative Committee to explain that there is no need to increase it from 30 to 50, or 50 to 100, especially when we are in this period of transition from one system to another. But increasing that minimum number of members of one society can be a cause of abuse. This should certainly be added to the provision that you raised it to 30% in the share and large-value actions. With 20% in Serbia, you get a majority package, the control package gets 20%, just look at our companies that are privatised, and take these companies that are newly created as stock companies, you will see for yourself that the control package has practically one who has 20% shares. Don't let it serve you as a rapper, "Prince Milos", "C Market" and these others. The largest number of these types of companies does not need to have such a large number of members. Furthermore, which could be put as a principled remark, in Article 131(2), there is practically no provision that prevents the situation as it was, for example, in America, this Enron company, when it has made billions of losses on the basis of incorrect financial reports, funds have been illegally used and shareholders have remained empty-handed. I think it is very important that, following these opening criticisms of this bill, a principled view of what this law should satisfy as a minimum. This law as a minimum should allow for the easy, fast, and quality organization of all those who consider themselves capable of performing some economic activity. But this law must also allow every member of society, or partner, or shareholder, to have that minimum protection, primarily its property rights in one of these types of companies. And probably the most important thing – it must contain provisions forcing a company, a limited liability company, a partner society, a command company and an entrepreneur to maintain their capital, so that it can service its obligations to trustees; that it does not happen during the course of trade to its shares and actions, trustees who had good faith in the data entered in the relevant register remain unprotected. I believe that, in many provisions, you do not provide that guarantee, both on a relationship within society and a guarantee that would apply to trustees. Notwithstanding these amendments, it may also be noted that you have provisions to exclude members of a limited liability society, which is Article 189(2), where one of the reasons for disfellowshipping members from that society is very arbitrary. In that sense, an objection may also be made to Article 203 of point 4 concerning decision-making, because in such a formulation as you have stated, practically, abuse is possible at any time. It's too bad this law is passed by emergency procedure. He is not in line with the laws on the registration of business entities and bankruptcy, and we have warned you of the order when these laws were passed, first goes the law on companies, then these two laws go, or at the same time all three laws go, because they represent one continent. That's how the bankruptcy bill stayed with the company, and now you have a business name in the company law. In the Law on the Registration of Business Entities there is still a name - a company, and here there is also - a business name. The law wasn't written by the same man. It's like strangers were writing this law, which can't possibly be aligned. You've only regulated the integration of companies with two members. These are Articles 366 and 376 and in Article 7(6) only declares that a monopoly is prevented. Yes, it takes a different law, an anti-monopolis law, but this law must also contain provisions on these so-called so-called anti-monopol laws. internal monopolies, which may appear, and some even call it conflict of interest. As for the property of high value, I think you made a mistake in increasing it to 30 percent. That better be 20 percent. It's in the existing company law so regulated. One of the biggest objections is to what you stated in Article 14, which is what you drag through the members of this law, when certain types of companies are regulated, which is that members of society are self-evaluating the value of capital, the value of shares, non-money stakes in goods, services and some work. It's about as if you get together friends and say – what we have isn't worth five hundred but two thousand, and it's a nice entry there, and under that faith the third person goes into business with that society and later it turns out there's not even that 500 dinars, let alone those two thousand. I think you had to approach it a little bit more rigorously, and that, in the end, if necessary and repeat some of the provisions of the accounting and audit laws. It is likely that no one will understand the provision of Article 391 and that is the form of merger without the decision of the congregation of society. How is it possible to merge one company with another without the decision of the merger company’s congregation? That's where you made some kind of variant that, believe me, is unacceptable. There are so many shortcomings, Minister, and I'm sure you've given it to some experts to do so, but I have to tell you that there are complements and commanders in the command society. Complementaries should be natural persons who correspond to their entire assets, and commanders can also be physical and legal persons that correspond only to their share. It exists in every encyclopedia of command societies. You've made a complete mess. You've made a mess of the company. I don't know how a partner society can exist between a legal person and a physical person. Dude, there's only one thing that exists between faces. I don't know what it is, but there's no such thing as something like this. So, besides entrepreneurs as an individual who performs an economic activity, there are these two types of person society, which is a partner society and a command society. A company, where only individuals with equal stakes, and a command society as one transitional period, where there is a transitional variant that gives some breadth that they can also physically and legal person with different rights to unite themselves for business under a common name, and then companies of capital go, as a much more responsible organisational form of a company. You minimized the importance of the statutes as one of the acts, you overemphasized the importance of internal contracts that close almost every type of company members of that society, and you forgot that if there is no obligation to attach that contract to the register, then it seems to me that in such internal contracts some things can be regulated, so let it also be in the form of decision-making, in the form of the distribution of profits and in the form of operations, which have a significant impact on the capital of that form of society, above all on its liability to the third security person. I fully agree that the contract should be given mandatory force. Each contract undertakes, each contract is a law for those parties which are signatories and the contract should be protected against the law, i.e. courts should protect the contract and the free will of the parties. He can't take a third person for that. The state, when it regulates this area, has to make sure that everyone who enters a business relationship with some company has to know what are known values, what are known sizes. There is a possibility, through a series of provisions, to reverse that capital, to fictitiously increase, to fictitiously show that it is not available; many provisions, especially that provision, I think it is Article 123, that society with limited responsibility finance the shares of its members and its capital. It's totally unacceptable. As for those provisions relating to the company, I think that you have given too much importance to financial operations actions, a team before there are at least two other laws, other than the Charter of Values Act, which also regulate these areas. I think that's where you over-emphasised the importance, and it could be about to create a mix-up with participants in a business life. As far as the SRS is concerned, this division of stock companies into the open and closed that you're doing has been completely missed. That's for sure, she's completely missed. And in the winding-up you listed, it's probably some kind of mistake, although it may not be. You are practically going into liquidation, based on that member as it is written there, after the liquidation is concluded, or registers the termination of the company by liquidation. I just can't understand that such a mistake can be made, because it's practically impossible. In order to help you understand these amendments that we have tried to help you, I will only take the opportunity to point out some of the provisions of the Law on the Registration of Business Entities which are not respected at all when it comes to this law on business societies, and they had to be present, not complete provisions, but the logic and content of these provisions had to have some logical trail in this law. For the sake of example, I'd like to give you an example of members 53, 54, 70. Here's exactly what needs to be attached to the registration application. You don't even have provisions in the company law for that documentation, and I'm not talking about what's the opposite of this business registration law. We cannot vote for this law in principle, and we are also aware that it cannot be improved more significantly by our amendments. He can't be fixed because he's fundamentally wrong. This bill of yours is a set of norms that should only be satisfied with the form, a little bit of everything regulated, not enough, or even the opposite of the existing laws that bind us. We can talk about the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, and you know that we attacked it, but it went into effect. If he commits economic operators, citizens, he probably commits the ministry when he writes some law that continues on that law. We don't notice that here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8943	I thank the MP Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8944	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have an extremely important system law ahead of us, and there is no doubt that the DSS will support the solutions in the proposed company law in the voting day. Since 1978, when reforms in the status part of economic law began, there has been no doubt that the proposed law represents progress and fully corresponds to the needs of the time in which Serbia is located. One of the basic goals, and more or less all political parties in Serbia agreed on it, is to accelerate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It has been pointed out several times that the obstacles were to achieve the momentum of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and one part of these obstacles were removed during the previous period of adoption of the Commercial Registers Act, and the Agency for Business Registers, the Banking Procedure Act and the Insurance Act. The most important system law is right in front of us, and this is the company law. The previous government adopted a strategy for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship, and important provisions in the strategy refer to a normative part that will create assumptions for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. One of the important features of this law is its flexibility when it comes to organising the legal forms that are foreseen here. It is precisely the fact that the number of necessary documents to be applied for registration (here is only a founding act) is reduced and that the statute is not a mandatory act, and members of all legal forms of a company, limited liability companies, shareholders can regulate their internal relations by contract and, according to their business needs, amend those provisions, makes this law dynamic when it comes to the development of all legal forms provided for here. Some of the more important provisions that I would mention, which are highlighted here and will contribute to the development of a new business spirit in Serbian entrepreneurship and business, are listed in section 7 entitled – Persons who have a duty to society. Of course, here is the duty of attention and the rule of business assessment (judgment) and the duty of loyalty. In the previous period, one of the most important shortcomings that, in addition to poor management, has affected our businesses in a difficult position is the lack of corporate culture. I think these provisions, which are provided for in the company law, will contribute to the development of corporate culture, the relationship of all, and members of society and management and staff, as well as the proper relationship with the company in which they work and which they manage. Some very important provisions here are also those that all disputes relating to business and relations regulated by this law are settled before a trade court, and that is urgent, and must be settled within 60 days. I think it's very important, because status issues are very important and can cause major problems unless they're solved as planned here, within these deadlines. What I said at first, the fact that members of all these legal forms have the opportunity to regulate their relations through a contract, to change the contract over time, makes these legal forms dynamic. What is important and what I would also like to point out is that by reducing the necessary amount of capital to 500 euros, the possibility has been created for a large number of our citizens who have an interest in opening this part of society with limited responsibility – and in the application of the Company Act, it has proved that the largest number of our citizens have set up this legal form of enterprise – it is even more accessible. Some of the solutions in this law are mentioned here: closed and open stock companies; I think they are excellent solutions, because the founders may not at first want to expose their company to investments and opportunities for someone else to have interference in them, and during business they can decide, of course, by changing the contract, that this company is due to an increase in capital, because of new investments being open. As someone who has represented certain companies in court, I can say that some of the solutions in this law are impossible to create such problems as they existed in practice. One such problem was the fact that the congregation of a company of shareholders could resolve the director. We had countless disputes initiated by the directors in the assembly, where it was mostly disputed in the courts whether the real reasons for the resolution were mentioned, whether the congregation taxed. Here we have one disposition of the assembly that if it is estimated that it is no longer in the interest of the stockholder society, it can resolve the director and that is a sufficient basis for resolution. I think that this explicit provision will be very clear to determine the position of the assembly and also to prevent many disputes that may arise. Also, the fact that we leave the possibility of setting a dividend day makes something impossible that appeared in practice, and that's that we've had a swing selling stock on the stock market so-called. small shareholders, so this happened in the year when it was decided to pay dividends out of profits. We had a lot of disputes about it when the shareholder had the right to give the dividend, whether before the sale, whether after the sale, whether or not he owned it in the previous period. I think it's so clear by the law that it's stopped now. Of course, some good solutions relating to the rights to transfer share are very clearly regulated here. And, very detailedly, it's a very detailed way of convening the assembly session, the board of directors' session. From these provisions of the law, we see that there are now possible problems that exist if the statutes of a company were unspoken, as well as countless problems created in the congregation. There is no doubt that any other solutions provided for here are more precise and clearer in order to regulate some issues than they were in the Company Law. Of course, that's where I'm talking about getting my own action. It is very clear here how the company can acquire its own actions, during which period it is required to alienate them, if you do not alienate them, in what period it is required to undo them. I think this law has been very precisely regulated. As I said, there is no doubt, and the Democratic Party of Serbia is clearly behind this, that the solutions provided for when it comes to society's authorities will be much clearer to separate the governance function and the operational function. The fact that we have both the Management Board and the Executive Board in the stock company, the fact that the Executive Board assumes these operational functions, that management is responsible for the implementation of the business decisions taken by the Management Board, in a clearer and more precise way, will distinguish management and operational tasks that regulate both senior and secondary and lower management. At the end of this first announcement, I can say that, in the view of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, this proposed law will contribute to, I believe, a common objective, which is to accelerate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, in a more adequate way, and that this strategy on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship, adopted in 2003, after the adoption of this law and, of course, in line with all those laws adopted in the previous period in the National Assembly, will contribute to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. That would speed up the part of our population that wants to deal with private business as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8945	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Joan Palalic, as the mandated representative of the DSS. The word has the authorised representative Vlahovic, the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8946	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, first of all, let me say that I am an authorised representative on behalf of the Democratic Party Group, Boris Tadic. I pray that in the future, a large democratic group in this House is called a full name. The Democratic Party has carefully examined the company law or, rather, the company law. I know there was a dilemma about whether it would be called business or commercial societies, as most often one such company, roof law is called in other countries in transition, but I think "economic societies" is much better termically, more specifically, given the ambience, that is, the environment in our economy. First of all, we want to welcome the really very principled and sincere policy of continuity that is being conducted in the Ministry of Economy, the former Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, which is not only proven by the proposal for this law on companies, but has already been proven in the previous period of the laws adopted and supported by the DS, the bankruptcy procedure and the registration of business entities. This is because continuity over is needed not only in terms of the economic reforms that are being implemented with us, but at all times in any transition policy that must continue to be carried out at an even stronger pace. First, let me say that the law did at this point the most professional working group Serbia has and that it was founded in March 2003, that the first version of the law was completed in December 2003 and that it was indeed a good basis for the Ministry of Economy to continue to produce this important legal document. For my vague reasons, the very procedure for making the law was stopped for a moment at the very beginning of the new government's mandate, but once again I welcome what the minister himself is, with the Ministry at whose head he was and whose head he is today, has actually contributed to the fact that today we are discussing a very, very important legislative project. The company law is a roof, company law. And to ask why he wasn't brought before, the answer is - it's not good to be brought before. In fact, it is adopted at the end, when all other laws are previously passed, the company laws that either regulate individual processes in transition or, in accordance with the objectives set in economic transition, other individual laws are previously passed. Hence, during the previous period, we had the Law on Privatisation, Amendments to the Law on Private Entrepreneurs, the Law on Businesses in 2002, the adoption of the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, the Law on Banks and these laws on business companies are imposed as a final project or a roof, company law. I don't want to be unencumbered by any sentence in my interpretation of this law. On the contrary, I would like to say that the 1996 Company Act itself was a good starting point for the creation of laws on companies and that, in the end, regardless of the circumstances and the moment when the law was passed, it respected the relevant principles which, among other things, were adopted in the European Union legislation. It is very important to point out that this law is counterweighted by the Labour Act. The company law protects the interests of capital, and the Labour Act protects the interests of workers, and therefore it would not be good to wait longer than was necessary to pass this law. By May 2003, this matter was at the federal level and that this law had become part of the Republic's legislation only since 18 April 2003, so you can find a formal reason why this law had not previously been presented to the National Assembly. What is good in the law, and I believe that the whole law has been consistently and consistently done, because once again I repeat that there has been no interruption in the work, or the application of different attitudes and different views since the time the working group was established, is that this law, in my opinion, illuminates three very important areas in a modern and modern way. The first is to define the types of individual companies and, with that in mind, the very detailed and precise definition of stock companies, both closed and open stock companies. It regulates all processes known in a closed and open stock society, from establishment to liquidation. What is particularly important, given the circumstances in which our country is in economic terms, is the strengthening of corporate governance, because today we rarely have a very strange situation – instead of having capital owners controlling management, it happens vice versa, management controls capital owners. These are the observed weaknesses in the existing Company Act, regardless of the changes made in 2002. This strengthening of corporate governance was done in one appropriate way by introducing the so-called Democratic Party, according to me and by MPs -- Boris Tadic. the two-cameral management system, which means that the functions of the director and the functions of the board of directors of maltenes are combined. The board of directors is becoming a board of directors, but much stronger and greater importance is given to the Supervisory Board, which is appropriate to the German and French legislation, unlike the one-home management system that exists in the Anglo-Saxon legislation. What does that mean next? This means that, in this case, an independent auditor, i.e. the Supervisory Board, will have far greater authority to control the management function in a company, in a company than it has so far. As you know, and that's not only the case with companies, I'm afraid that's the case with other forms of governance, supervisory boards and supervisory committees, they don't have a particularly pronounced function that they should have, which is to carry out the supervisory supervision of management functions. And, usually, members of the Supervisory Board have been elected from the ranks of employees so far, which is not good, because this directly suggests a conflict between, on the one hand, the fact that someone is in a working relationship and on the other hand, the fact that the person who is in a working relationship, who is directly subordinated to the management function in the company this time needs to take over the supervisory role. That is why it is good to put supervisory committees first in the control line and therefore I welcome that this company law has not deviated from the principle that this company law is actually done according to the reputation of German, or French legislation. I expect that this will also have a major impact on the behaviour of the companies privatised before 2001, since this phenomenon that shareholders do not manage capital and do not control management, but it happens vice versa, is the product of the privatisation model that we had until 2001 and the consequence of the underdeveloped action culture in our country. Among other things, it is a failure that existed at one point when this company law was not in line with the modern transition trends of property that was introduced in early 2000. (President: Mr. Vlahovicu, are you using another 10 minutes? Yes. Just to point out that it is a good solution to be thrown out of the Law on Trade Society by compulsory participation in governance. This should be left to the working legislation, as is the case here and this, ultimately, needs an enterprise from case to case of use, depending on whether the future objectives of the company correspond to whether it is participatory in management or not. You have a whole series of actions where the company has to function as a family, as a family, and then that participation makes sense. You have, on the other hand, a whole series of actions where something like this isn't necessary, where it has to be separated and clearly distinguished who owns it, and who's a company worker, and then participation can only be counterproductive, because it's rarely seen as a return to self-government, to what we've had so far. It's a good regulation of open and closed stock companies and I mean, who reads this law more carefully... And once again, I note that this is not a political law, it has been done by a working group composed of the most professional people, even if those we have in our country, and for that I absolutely do not have a political relationship with this law, but rather professionally, and for that I do not wish for any time without commending something that is good. When it comes to the second area, it's also very important, it's the protection of minority shareholders. This is where the protection of minority shareholders is regulated. The protection of minority shareholders is not in the Financial Market Act, as some have at the time suggested, nor is it in the Privatisation Act, because it is a transit law that has a limited duration of time, nor is it the protection of minority shareholders, God forbid, a place in labour legislation. On the contrary, a special section should be left in the Company Act, as is done here, concerning the protection of minority shareholders. At the same time, this does not mean that this law should have been regulated, since it has such attitudes, so on. Anti-Takeover hosts download or translated – enemy takeover of the company. Why? Because this notion is very misunderstood with us, in relation to whom the hostile takeover of the company is, whether it's from shareholders or from management. I'm afraid the most common thing about us is that it's in relation to management, so the chapter on the protection of small shareholders is very well done. I welcome that there are no limits to what is called. minority controls, rather than leaving it to the company, so that blocking minority for strategic decisions or that control of minority shareholders can be 49%, but it can also be 25. I think that the range of changes to the Company Act, when this minority control from 25% was raised to 33.3%, has expired at the moment, because it was linked to the 2001 privatisation and allowed the new owner, among other things, to make strategically important decisions without being blocked in a traditional self-government way by minority shareholders, employees. I therefore welcome and once again commend the special regulation of the chapter on the protection of minority shareholders. The Democratic Party has no fundamental objections to this law. This is quite understandable, since the adoption of this law, however, is a little later, part of the plan and the previous ministry, and since that key principle of continuity is fully achieved, which only praiseably can speak about the existing Ministry of Economy. However, the DS has four amendments and suggests that at least two of those four are accepted, since two are essential. The first refers to the definition of assets. Therefore, the definition of assets in a legally correct sense is not about the economic definition of assets, but about the definition of the property of a company that must be aligned with legal terminology. That will be done by MP Bosko Ristic, who is also the applicant of this amendment, when the debate on amendments is held, to explain why this is a better solution than what was given in the law. On the other hand, since the entrepreneurship area is only mentioned, i.e. regulated in a mining form, which should be, we really insist that all other issues relating to entrepreneurial relations be regulated by law rather than by legal acts, or other regulations, better said, to express myself in legal correct terminology. Other regulations can also be regulations, decisions and conclusions. We believe that the wider regulation of the entrepreneurship area must also be defined by a special law. We have the Private Entrepreneurs Act, and it just needs to be changed. I know that, among other things, the intensity of those professional people who exclusively deal with entrepreneurship is precisely to regulate it. Based on this, you can see that we have no fundamental objections to the law. We will try to make sure that both the Minister and all of you, gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, explain why these two amendments should be accepted. With that in mind, we think we're absolutely right. Our commitment is to vote for this law. This law has a lot of technical errors, which I hope is mostly corrected by the DSS amendments, but since this is a commercial constitution, this is not a law written now, so it changes in a year, in three years, and I don't know how much, this law must eventually, if adopted, pass the pedant legal-technical processing, be both text and technical pie. Because that's what we're going to say tomorrow, conditionally, pride ourselves, or a key economic legal document; the roof company law is a law on companies, or companies, that hasn't changed in other countries for 50, 100, or I don't know how many years. The Democratic Party is offering, among other things, the services of its parliamentary group to assist in the legal and technical redistribution. We, regardless of the amendments -- we did not want to endure them, because we believe that even without amendments some things can be changed in order not to require amendments -- we will give in full terms, with the most sincere and principled help and with the Ministry and other parliamentary groups. Based on our commitment to this law, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and you, and the whole public, can conclude that DS has no intention of obstructing the Serbian Parliament, has no intention of continuing the debate indefinitely. We need this law, both essentially and formally. By Monday, we must vote this law if our country wants to receive the next tranche of assistance from the World Bank's structural loan party. We won't use that moment to obstruct the debate. On the contrary, we generally refer to this law, as we have applied in principle to the laws that were the previous points of the agenda, because we have pointed out the fundamental errors, disagreements and contradictions that are in these laws. It will also be a feature of the DS in the future. What's good for our country must be good for us too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8947	I thank MP Aleksandr Vlahovic as the authorised representative of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group. Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Miloljub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8948	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the G17 plus advocates changes in our country, which our country will essentially bring closer to the EU. We need to comply with EU laws, but not only that, we also need to make the environment in our country suitable for investors from the same countries. If we unite together and make an appropriate climate, of course it leads to one good change and progress in our society. The proposal for a law on companies that is now on the agenda of the National Assembly G17 plus fully supports, because this is a modern legal project that regulates the complex functioning of companies in general. The current Company Act was passed in 1996, eight years ago. At the time of its adoption, it has contributed to a different thinking on the development of entrepreneurship and especially the formation of new societies with limited responsibility. Since opportunities have changed, and the conditions of adolescence in previous years have not been in favour of economic development, the transition of our economy has not led to an end. So we need some activities to intensify and more intensively to engage in international economic flows. We need to adapt our internal legislation to environmental and EU regulations, and this is one of those laws. G17 plus is for the adoption of this law. I'm going to come up with some important examples that make this legal solution very positive. Under this legislative proposal, companies, future limited-responsibility societies, can be set up with an initial capital of 500 euros, instead of a current commitment of $5,000. According to the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, which enters into force in February 2005, the deadline for registration is five days, so that the establishment of such companies is a simplification of the process and a reduction of the problem, and by reducing this total amount, conditions are created for many more people to be included in the same. What is very important in this legislative proposal is the protection of the rights of small shareholders. Therefore, a small shareholder, if not satisfied, is entitled to a claim if he has at least five per cent of the company’s share capital in a company. Also, a company can call an extraordinary assembly at the written request of shareholders with at least ten per cent of voting rights. Thirdly, when setting the agenda, shareholders or shareholders who have at least 10% of the voting right to elect the board of directors may propose and require that no more than two new issues be included in the Assembly's agenda. So a whole series of questions and rights that small shareholders can achieve here are regulated in a good way. The proposal for a company law detailedly regulates the procurement of capital to companies of a commercial nature, but in Article 204. The proposal lays down that companies may issue ordinary and privileged actions, which may be divided into two or more classes with different rights, such as different dividend rates or different dividend payments rights or the remuneration of a company’s assets in the event of liquidation. These concepts point to a whole new thinking of those members of the stock companies who have such opportunities, including a general public opinion when we listen to a report on the same in the regular daily news. The G17 plus believes that future high-intensity should also be activated by the financial market of securities of value, that the financial market should be revived in a certain way, while allowing the actions of certain companies to be included through the stock market. We have so far had a certain volume of transport on the financial market, however, in the past the most common means for the operation of enterprises are supplied through loans from business banks or dedicated investment funds. So we neither covered the current business and the expansion of the activity, or all the investments, and the funds were obtained on the financial market, they are qualitatively different from the financial resources so far. For example, if they invest in the purchase of shares, the owners of these shares participate in all these dividends, and there is the profit of society, and there are also certain rights to manage such companies, i.e. companies. In this way they are very interested in the company where they invested their money business successfully. So to conclude, a normal environment is being created for economic functioning in the country. Also, good conditions are being created to connect with the world in a mutual way, because it is not enough to just invite investors, but it is necessary in an appropriate way to resolve the legislation in our country. The G17 plus advocates this law and the G17 plus will support it, but we also call on other parliamentary groups to accept this legislative proposal. If we want our country's prosperity, if we want to enter Europe, to be part of the modern world, then we also need to adapt legislation. The G17 plus is for such flows, for a concrete solution and the G17 plus will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8949	I thank the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic. Are any of the other authorised promoters or presidents of the MPs' clubs or their deputies answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I propose that we continue in order of the applications for discussion. The first was Bojan Kekic. I am informing the MPs that the G17 plus, in order to contribute to this law being adopted as soon as possible, is withdrawing the list of debaters, so we have one less debater on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8950	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, with respect for what the G17 plus representative has done, I promise not to be long in my presentation, but the fact is that for the first time in this assembly, according to the opening statements of the authorised representatives of the political parties, we all support the law on companies. All the debaters have declared that the Company Act was the basis for the adoption of this law. The law was passed in 1996, when the authority was in the jurisdiction of the federal state, and since the Constitutional Charter changed the authority of the Member States, the Republic of Serbia must bring it not only by an urgent procedure but, as it is said, no later than 15 November. The name of the law is primarily adapted to that legal sense; therefore, the company as a legal instrument, as a legal term, does not exist and therefore the real name should be – the law on companies. Before this afternoon's meeting, the SPS parliamentary group had consultations with the deputy minister, Mrs Simovic; with regrets that the minister was prevented, I said one sentence – that this law can be a good basis, i.e. a real book for economic law in the way it is conceived and how it is contained, because it has the general part, and then explains all the individual forms and institutes, as it has already been said, from creation to liquidation. In order to ensure the consistency of the discussion, I would not indicate what the principle of harmonisation, the principle of completeness of the law, the principle of equality and the principle of tripartiteness, but I am getting the impression that members of the 48 to 52 laws, which apply to entrepreneurs, may be a little more precise and broader, given that in the next period we will have a lot of opening up these entrepreneurial, if I may say, forms of society. Therefore, if it is defined in Article 48, the minister responsible for the area may, by means of sublegal acts, and also through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, introduce a better and stronger regulation, and hence also a regulation relating to entrepreneurs. To take advantage of only the opportunity of the Minister's presence and to say as an MP from Braničevsky County, from Požarec, because the law, according to discussions, is sure to pass, that the Privatisation Agency should pay more attention to the form and functioning of privatisation in certain regions, given that the people representing the Agency are not in a situation or have no desire or desire to implement certain decisions, i.e. to facilitate certain businesses. The company of the Meat Industry Pogorec, which is in a situation where it is unable to privatise, although people have been insisting on it for several years, remains companies, not to list them, would surely be much more satisfied if someone from the Agency helped in the part. The Minister is certainly aware of and knows what the Development Fund is doing, i.e. the Management Board of the Development Fund, would not be burned to see how much funding from the Development Fund is paid or submitted to the territories. Since the Development Fund requires exclusively guarantees from business banks, certain companies, I hope, since the adoption of this law for a certain day, are unable to, given the regulation in property-legal relations, provide certain mortgages. What the minister should do to make it easier for people... As I'm informed, company registration should be monitored where commercial courts are. As far as I know, we only have 16 trade courts on the territory of all Serbia, and we have just over 22 districts. Since these are not large funds, it would be much more savings for individual citizens, even in the central municipalities of their districts, not to follow more trade courts, but to be able to carry out those registrations in these municipalities, which will certainly be much easier and cheaper for people. The parliamentary group will vote for the proposed law. We have also submitted an amendment relating to allowing a company to be independent, in that part, so that it can choose whether it will have a director, whether it will have a board of directors or have both, and any specific information concerning both the directors and the board of directors. I thank you, and I would really ask the minister to accept these suggestions, i.e. my sublegal acts, to help make them better and faster registrations, and also to ensure a balanced development of certain districts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8951	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8952	I did not expect, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, that MP Bojan Kekic would make such a bitter reference to some members of the law to the minister, but that is what happens sometimes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not going to make an expert analysis of this law, but I'm going to use my time as an MP with a long-standing internship in the National Assembly to make some remarks about this law and point out the way the law is written, its readability and what I think must be the most important thing in the law, i.e. to be examined, written and to speak unequivocally of what he treats. It is indisputable that this law has driven a great deal of interest from MPs and MPs, as we can see by the number of amendments that parliamentary groups, or MPs, have submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption, that the Assembly committees have taken their work very seriously, that the Legislative Committee has made a special effort and carried out a legal and technical editorial of the text of the Bills in a large number of members of the law. It is clear that this law has been approached very seriously, as is the law itself that should allow us to catch the link with the countries of the developed market economy and the European Union faster. What is a special surprise to me is that the government has accepted a significant number of amendments, wanting it, or the competent ministry, to participate in getting as good and quality a law as possible. Thank God, Mr. Minister, you are one of the few, truly thank God, who proposes a law in which there are no new agencies. With these agencies, we're bored with both God and man. Wherever you see the law, the legal text, the amendment of the law, immediately – agency, agency, agency. I hope that DS, G17 plus, your coalition partners have satisfied the appetites of their members, that everyone has found their jobs, and as far as the SRS is concerned, we think you've had enough. I hope there will be no more laws with new agencies that only mean the cost of this country, ineffectiveness in the work and the protection of the government and the ministries behind the work of agencies that will assume their responsibility, and in return receive salaries of 180, 200 and 250 000. But I must tell you, the practice of writing some illegible and unreadable laws continues. I am under the impression that these laws are just being translated from countries of the European Union or some other countries where the market economy has been brought to life on a larger scale and that we are using their experience, and you say so yourself – that as a basis for this law, the sources of the EU Company Law Directive (2001), the Croatian Commercial Society Act, the Slovenian Law; there are one 18-20 starting basis, i.e. the sources from which this law is written. It seems to me that the practice continues again when the laws are quite precisely translated, but when it comes to a part of the sentences that it was unfavorable and that it was done by a translator who was a technocrat. So he translated literally, didn't make a sentence that corresponds to the spirit of Serbian, which is a big problem if we strive to have laws that will fit this climate, which will be read by the people here. You know, these laws, as they are written now, in the way they are written, are very similar to one period when the secretary of the Republic Secretariat of legislation was Biserka Zivkovic, the wife of the then minister and later Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. At that time our laws were absolutely illiterate and absolutely illiterate. Furthermore, the law is passed by an emergency procedure, which is again the legacy you took over from the previous Dossov government. There's more and more laws on emergency procedures. Why? This is a serious law, and he could have let himself go into procedure much earlier, so the MPs would carefully consider it. Believe that we Serbian radicals, of course, are extremely interested that after the Company Act, which was a good basis for such a law, a law will be passed that will register the changes that occurred in the meantime, from the period of its adoption. And that law, we all agree, was then one of the more advanced laws. There is another similarity between the government and the previous governments of Zoran Zivkovic and Zoran Djindjic. Of course, the basic resemblance between the two governments is that neither this one nor the government solved the problem of crime, corruption and poverty, as promised in the pre-election campaign. Now let me say that some members are even involved in some funny things. Here, Minister, look at, say, Article 335. I will read it to you: "The professional trustee has been authorised to review the company's business books and documentation and to request information and statements from members of the board of directors and supervisory board, as well as from persons employed in the company, in order to determine the state of business in the company." Now, look at this point: "The person of whom the professional trustee requests notices and statements are obliged to give them without delay and truthfully." Well, it's not supposed to stand – it's not true. And in criminal terms, you don't have a sanction if he gives false statements. I suppose it is understood that the testimony must be given truthfully, it is a preamble, it is a basis – true, timely and similar. If you have already put it into the law, or its members, give in criminal terms a sanction – if it is untimely, if it is false. But here's where my friend Adzic is going to get mad, it's like this DSS, how you work in Nis, because if they were more determined, more willing, we'd already have a congregation majority in Nis and we wouldn't be on the verge of introducing temporary measures, but we can't sit on the same two-seat tour. In the end, gentlemen, I was impressed by one sentence from former Minister Vlahovic, who was an authorised representative of the DS, and he says: The Labour Act (see this irony! ) protects the interests of workers and the law on companies protects the interests of capital. Now, if this law protects the interests of capital as the current Labour Act protects workers' interests, failures and employment, collapses and capital, and goes to the middle of nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8953	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Branislav Rankic is on the board, I was informed by your colleagues from the SRS, and I apologize that he is not you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8954	Mr. Angelkovic, you know that I never have a problem, and that at three o'clock at night you call me to go out for a pay phone that I'll know what law I'm talking about... (President: I had no doubt about it, and therefore I called you without notice. I suddenly got surprised, I see you calling me, and a colleague was announced earlier. As we said in the opening statement, i.e. Authorised representative of the SRS Mr Zoran Krasic, who is otherwise a witness to all amendments to the Law on Businesses in Serbia at federal level, since a multi-party has been introduced, as he is an active participant in the adoption of laws in terms of voting against them and through amendments, this is a completely incomprehensible law, harmonised with EU countries, the law of Aleksandr Vlahovic. It is nice for Vlahovic to smile, as he did a month ago, because he is in the alleged opposition, his president in co-habitation with the DSS and others who support the coalition government, but the month by month, day by day and one by one Vlahovic's proposal comes on the agenda. I understand that your opinions are identical when it comes to the question of where Serbia's economy is going in the future, and our opinions are opposed. Experts from this area in the SRS and we as candidates for MPs, offering in the campaign last year quite another solution, have made it clear to you that these book examples of the law cannot take us far away and that no deadlines, including this until 15 November, which you are in a hurry to adopt this law on companies (and to inform, Ministers, Serbian citizens that from now on they will have societies, and not businesses) will not improve the overall situation. To be honest, Minister Bubalo, I expected you to first, since you took over the function that you informally and performed since Dragan Marsican's resignation, to propose amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act, as the parallel proposer himself explained, Mr Vlahovic, because he is a proponent of one or two, however you wish, conditioned by the adoption of this law with certain credit arrangements, and also by the budget. Here, however, a whole other question arises. If this is with such agreement, approval and voting by DS and Vlahovic himself came on the agenda, if the DS agrees with it, and you suggest it because the draft of this bill has waited for you, what will happen after the adoption of this law and budget (which is a big question whether you will be able to adopt it and whether you will have a majority in the Assembly) with companies, i.e. enterprises in the future period, or in 2005. Not by chance today a text has appeared in one weekly which testifies that to the greatest extent, however long this government survives, and is limited to its duration, and "trends", as you say in the explanation of the law on companies, will largely dictate to you by Boris Tadic himself. He promoted himself in a campaign for an ambassador to the Serbian economy, and it is the most normal since the law passed and given certain opinions and people from regional chambers of commerce, that the election of the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce would come on the agenda. It is that it is an orchestrated move that is under Boris Tadic's direct stick, which you will accept or not, because of Slobodan Milosavljevic, the failed minister of trade and tourism, through the manager of the company "Metalac" from Gornji Milanovac and some third options, it is obvious that DS and Tadic himself are very interested. When writing amendments to your bill, Mr. Bubalo, we were interested, as people who deal with the problems of the Serbian economy and all amendments and additions to the Company Act, which in many areas now practically ceases to exist, what is it that the owners of any form of enterprise will be able to accept from this law, which will be incomprehensible to them. The company, the command company, the stock company with a membership of 100 members, which we are asking to cut to 50. As for the status of individual business entities and many limited-responsibility societies we are also looking for, since with limited liability, the number is reduced from 50 to 30, many incomprehensible legal formulations, up to the reasons that are probably for you, Minister Bubalo, clear and not us. While this debate was taking place, that is, while the heads of the parliamentary groups, authorized representatives, in the meantime I tried my fellow MPs, but also the lawyer to find out, so I ask all those who are lawyers, who understand that term, because fellow SRS lawyers smiled with an awful smile, to explain to us, Mr. Bubalo, what does the bill mean to you... And otherwise, I have to read you a whole sentence for painting. So how do you explain it and how people who own societies will understand it?......................................................................... On page 2 of the bill's arguments, it says: "The experiences of comparative legal practice and the need for maximum compatibility with such practice (but the copy should never and should never be true to the original)", as originally written, "have imposed the need for the adoption of this law, the basic feature of which is adequate normivity, which will not hinder the wealth of status of economic life and which, with proper institutionalisation, will remove potential fresh legal uncertainty", and now a key question for lawyers, these journalists could also deal with as a poll in the Assembly, "and successfully deal with the phenomenon of sponge law. "The phenomenon of sponge rights and what stands in the light of the law, along with all these trends that are written here – Mr. Bubalo, if it wasn't funny, it would be really sad. On the other hand, the amendments that we have submitted to the bill, as you yourselves have seen, are strictly about legal formulations and improvements in society with limited responsibility, a partner, command society. There are some members who simply disagree with other laws that remain in legal traffic, so counterpart Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative, was so free to point out to you as a witness to all these developments and amendments to the law. Perhaps your intention, from the position you're in - the prime minister and the government, was good. I'm not going to go in there, as I am no MP of the SRS, but let us tell you that this explanation is completely incomprehensible and that's why you, Mr. Minister, have only used segments. And since it is an emergency procedure, we have indeed tried to analyze the explanation in this brief time to detail, because we can certainly observe sections, or heads by head of the law, from the proposer's explanation. When you have said the principles – the principle of harmonisation, completeness, the importance of the goal function for determining the concept, etc., and when you enter into the essence of all these sentences, you see what Zoran Krasic told you at the beginning, that many people who deal with the economy, and those who are from the SRS and other parties, who have private businesses, are incomprehensible about what it says, and they really need to translate it. Again, when it comes to such extensive legal regulations, and you will see through the discussion in particular, that I do not now list to you what strict technical formulations these are, I have merely cited some of them that we have objections, that we are really right and that you need to accept our amendments in order to make as many citizens of Serbia as possible for those who are concerned with this understandably. In the end, it will be easier for Boris Tadic. If he is an ambassador to the economy, if you allow him to command and dictate the portfolio in the future, as he is now working hard to elect his president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, make it easier for a man when you are with him in co-habitation, accept these amendments to the SRS. When he hosted a show on a Belgrade television, he spoke and answered questions to bring Serbia's citizens closer to what you and he were in. We do not think of you as the Bug, but of Kostunica and the Government, so in the words of cohabitation and its original meaning, it was used by two countries, or two of origins. He remembered in the end that it was still a word of original meaning from another country. He has corrected himself, though, and you be so kind - accept these amendments to be more understandable to you in power, as well as to Boris Tadic, who obviously wants to dictate economic flows after the adoption of the laws on companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8955	Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8956	Replica, since I was directly mentioned in Ms Natasa Jovanovic's presentation. I am truly appalled by the lack of understanding of the position of President of the Republic of Serbia. The task of the president of the Republic of Serbia is indeed to be an ambassador of the Serbian economy, given that there are no executive powers and in a fundamentally, promotional sense its task is to make bridges, both political and state-owned, with other countries, with businessmen from other countries, and then to help businesses, of course, with the measures led by the government, realise the prospects created in this way. And what's so controversial about that? What does President Tadic want to be an ambassador to the Serbian economy? It is not his wish, it is his constitutional obligation, to ultimately enable contacts between domestic and foreign businesses. And, President Tadic really has nothing to do with the elections that take place in the Chamber of Commerce, regardless of how many tabloids, daily newspapers and even Sundays speculate on the role of President Tadic in the announced elections in the Chamber of Commerce. For the Democratic Party, it is important that a man who is capable, who is a businessman, a man who respects the modern principles of the market economy, who will be the least important to us. Why? Because 90% of such businesses are currently supporting the economic policy it is leading and will be led by the Democratic Party. As far as the law is concerned, I think our citizens and our citizens are overly overcrowded by their views against and without rational explanations. I think ten years of being against everything is best spoken of by someone who takes that opposing stance. It seems to me that it is high time to make a consensus between political parties, whether they are in position or opposition, not only on the most important, large, national, political issues, but also on the most important economic issues. I think the experience of the political coalition that is in power is the negative experience they have with the demagogue populist promises that have been marked by the pre-election campaign and the problems they have today because of the inability to keep those promises, the best school, not only for them but for all other political parties, and that we need to know once and for all that our national interest is a healthy market economy, jobs and that there is no dispute between political parties. (President: You're out of time. I'm done. It is in the national interest, among other things, to adopt a quality law on companies and that there is no room for individual political promotion, individual leaders, leaders and political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8957	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Vojkan Tomic, and let the MP Nikola Todorovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8958	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, lies before us another reform law that needs to be passed as soon as possible. I think it's one of the laws that doesn't find out and doesn't take the difference between all of the pro-European, democratic forces that are pushing for faster reforms, and especially in that area that weighs us the most, it hurts, which is the more rapid reforms in the area of economy. We have heard from this pay phone that we have compared ourselves with some of the countries mentioned in this explanation; I see not simply other countries with which we can compare, but with those countries that have developed a market economy, developed economy, adequate legislation from these areas, and these are the countries that are listed in this reasoning. Of course, I also see those countries that we have to look up to, which are countries that entered Europe a while ago, or are now preparing to enter Europe. And, not to look further, but to the countries of our environment, above all I think of Croatia, Slovenia, Hungary and all those countries that have passed this transition path that we are now going through. When we talk about one of these laws and the creation of a total economic environment, and if we look at what laws we have already passed, which are directly related to this area, we have to bear in mind a few of the laws that we have already spoken of, above all, to strengthen this economic environment. First of all, I am referring to the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, the Law on the Market of Securities of Values and all those laws that provide adequate market business in our country. I am convinced that if we continue at this pace to pass laws that were in line with what we could read in one of the books, if someone has read from you, which was issued by the Association of Foreign Investors in our country, they called it the White Book, they will see that these are the laws on that course and that these laws meet all the needs they are actually asking for in order to have a favourable economic environment, so that they can be more adequate and easier to deal with in the economy in our country. With regard to what we could also hear here, that there was no place for demagogue messages, where the coalition currently in power was mentioned, I must tell you that there was no place to mention demagogue messages or certain parliamentary groups, but also other branches of the executive government, which also sent to the people such messages, and they had no place in these election campaigns. If there is criticism about our election campaigns, we will suffer it and try to correct these mistakes that we have made in these election campaigns, which is exactly what we are doing by passing these reform laws. Therefore, the view of the DSS and my personal opinion is that if we talk about such laws, we cannot find places in some political conflict, because such laws primarily have direct consequences for all those stakeholders in the economy who are directly dependent on whether these laws are of quality and whether they have adequate results, such as raising citizens' standards, economic growth, which we naturally expect in the next period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8959	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Nikola Todorovic, and let MP Zoran Angelkovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Secretary is gone. By adopting this bill, we can boast that we have brought another important law in line with European legislation, that we have followed all the recommendations, all the acts of the European community, what is given in this explanation. We can get, probably, and the condition to get that loan. Understandable are the provisions of the law regarding the establishment of social enterprises, registrations, corporate management, status changes, persons who are authorised, have a duty to society. It's all well written, good background was the Company Act. I'd say a few sentences about my experience in the economy. I've been in business since 1967. The factories were then working according to regulations, a longer period of time was under the Law of Associated Work. After the last amendments to the laws, the Company Act was again passed, and very frequent changes in legislation cost us frequent reorganisations, status changes, productivity declines, standards, factory disappearances, etc. Legal regulations are not enough. By adopting this law, we can say that with a series of laws passed, we changed the social system, we went to capitalism. To this Serbia is also trying to create conditions that the European Community understands us, that we can work with them, that we can be compatible with their economy, but only legal regulation is insufficient. These papers are not enough for the Serbian economy to work. We need to invest, organize, find markets, create other conditions, and we don't. All acts can be ideal, but there is no blood flow, there is no life until another part of the conditions are created, to create a material basis, to organize well, to create humane assumptions and to make business branches work. It is good that in this part of the restrictions you have separated social enterprises and capital enterprises where the state is the majority owner, until this privatisation process is completed. That's good, but that part of the job needs to be speeded up, done, because there are a number of state-owned enterprises left, large systems where the job is not finished, and that is the burning cancer industry of Serbia. The company law was a good basis and, understandably, for businessmen who wanted to form new businesses, new companies were very difficult to make status changes. We were always among the first, when it came to RTB Bor, Majdanpek, we quickly coordinated our normative act and organisational structure with new laws, but we did not move forward because we had no other assumptions. We've had increasingly difficult conditions of self-inflictedness, we've had experts, we've agreed quickly, but that's not enough. Look at the latest changes to the Company Act, how common they are. What does that mean to businessmen? When the law is passed, a two-year period shall be allowed to comply with the company's rules with the new laws or to bring its status changes in line with those rules. It's been two years, companies don't arrive, new laws are passed and all over again. In that sense, my criticism is this part. Maybe it's a two-year term, maybe it's short, because all these restructuring jobs need to be done, about preparation for privatisation and finally ending the story with these state-owned enterprises. In that sense, I think that these deadlines, in our desire to end the problem as soon as possible, are either longer or may be shorter than they would be objectively needed to finish the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8961	The People's MP Zoran Angelkovic has the word, and let the MP Veroljub Arsic be prepared. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that we put this law in order of urgency. I think the number of respondents to the debate in principle shows that we will be cooperative and today we will end the debate in principle, and tomorrow we will end the amendments, so we can adopt this law as early as Monday. I think it is a significant contribution that the overall activity of everything that we have done here in the previous period can in some way be operationalized, so that since 1 January those previous laws relating to the Law on the Registration of Business Entities will start to operate. Just a few things that are very important. I think it is very important that Serbia, or in its own time the SRJ, had a good reform law on economic operators, in fact, about businesses. And this law shows that, in fact, this basis was a sufficient foundation or a stable foundation that we can build up this law to get what is needed in line with the standards that apply in the European Union, and even at all in the areas of Southeast Europe. I think we've made one step in this regard, creating conditions for economic operators to be able to function successfully from January 1st. It is important that the participation in the establishment of a 5,000-dollar company, which among people who want to deal with some minor economic activity, was a limiting factor, has now been brought to a reasonable rate of 500 euros. Of course, it creates conditions for anyone who has some activity or, better say, has an idea for some activity, and creates, if we can say so, an economic environment that this company works, that it has conditions that it can start a business. Each start is the most difficult and there is the most investment needed, but this reduction significantly regulates the issue. Of course, the law allows many people to create an economic environment and freedom of economic decision. We are as a parliamentary group, supporting such a law, supporting the creation and rounding of this economic environment, with all those laws adopted in this House during this year from this area, had one remark, better say, one suggestion, that this leprosy of consent or allowing the economic operator to be able to limit it in the most appropriate way, and that is also when it comes to socially limited responsibility. There is no need to limit whether a limited-responsibility society will have the chairman of the board of directors, i.e. the management board or director, that and there should leave room for the economic operator to determine whether or not they will have one or the other. More specifically, with one small correction, with and/or, it is possible to create space for those companies that have 50, 70 employees to have a board and director, and those who have 10 or 5 can have one or the other. In a desire to contribute to the conclusion of today's debate in principle, I support this law, with the desire to adopt it during tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8964	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on business societies has been put on the agenda quite incorrectly today, because a tenth of the agenda has been skipped, on a proposal from the Serbian government, with the intention of discussing the 2005 budget in a timely manner. I don't think it was necessary for this law to be passed by emergency procedure, because it's obvious that the law is not good and that there are a lot of things that need to be fixed in the draft of this law, i.e. to be corrected, which is also a large number of amendments. The SRS has submitted 47 amendments, you can say -- you are the opposition, so you are submitting a lot of amendments, but the party in power has also submitted 39 amendments to this law, which, of course, will be voted by the MPs of the party. I guess that alone says enough about how unprepared this text of law is for today's session. So I think that when the government has already proposed that all those points of the agenda be removed that it should have been done with this law, not that MPs give up the debate, that they race, that they say here -- let's say only one or two sentences in order to make this law faster. I don't think that's an appropriate way to work the National Assembly. If this law has to be passed on Monday, then we can work longer today, both tomorrow and Sunday, but to process it humanly, to talk humanly about it, and then Monday to vote. I don't mind respecting that deadline. It seems ugly that the MP comes out and says, "I have something to say," but you know, I'm in a hurry, because this law is due to be passed on Monday. First of all, the question is whether he's going to adopt. And you, Mr. Bubalo, as well as all the ministers of your government, have begun the story with the fact that this law is one of the conditions for harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. I also accept this need and obligation, but it does not seem to me that the harmonisation of laws with the laws of the European Union does not mean that we should rewrite these laws, and in particular does not mean that we should make some bad translations. Among other things, that is why there are so many amendments, that at least logically and linguistically edit this text of the law. When you spoke of the principles set out in the draft of this law, you said among other things that it was also about the principle of harmonisation, but then it would be good if there were harmonisation of legal regulations within our legal system. It is one thing that you have an obligation to comply with EU regulations, but I think it is much better that our regulations in our legal system are in line with each other, and in this case it did not happen. Otherwise, the text of a law containing 449 – 450, almost 500 members, according to the SRS, has been exaggerated. Indeed, it is overloaded with unnecessary details that do not belong in the law. Let's just say, a lot of commitment to stock companies. Imagine that the law goes so far as to describe how the minutes are kept from the company’s congregation, in which the agenda is determined. We don't think these provisions belong in the law, that it should have been regulated in sublaws. I spoke several times to Minister Bubal, mostly on the Committee on Business and Privatisation, that it is really necessary for Serbian citizens to educate when it comes to action and action societies. These are all some newspapers in our legal and economic system. You can't educate citizens through 500-member law. First of all, not all citizens can even get to these laws. The laws are published in the Official Messenger. You know who uses the official messenger. They're mostly lawyers in companies and institutions where they're employed. So, there was supposed to be some other modulus for citizens to really get acquainted with everything that is recently, present and future, an integral part of all employees. I accept that there is much that the citizens of Serbia need to hear and find out, but I do not accept that it is contained in the legal proposal, because it is not the right way. Due to the lack of time, I will briefly comment on only two or three members of the proposal of this law, precisely in favour of the position of the SRS that this law on the one hand is too general and, on the other hand, unarranged, and the essence is - poorly translated. For example, in Article 4, you said that a company is founded on an indefinite basis, if the founding act does not specify that the company lasts until a certain time, the occurrence of an event, or the achievement of a specific objective. Of course, it was supposed to be "achieving a certain goal". I was merely illustrating this particular member to confirm the views of the SRS and what I said when I spoke of this law. For example, in Article 20, you say, "The business name of a company can contain the name of a domestic state or a territorial unit... "and so on. I guess we are in the Republic of Serbia, and I guess, if this is our law, then it should be "Republic of Serbia", not "domestic states". That says he's a bad translator to you, Mr. Bubalo. For example, in Article 33, you said, among other things: "The person of attitude 1 of this member who has a personal interest is obliged in particular to: do not use the property of a company in the personal interest; do not use privileged information in a company for personal gain", and then you say, "do not abuse positions in the company for personal wealth". You know, this is an over-expanded term. I can now think that you didn't even think about a company at all, but that someone had a position of government, and then they didn't use that position, and apparently they meant a company, but it was inaccurate. I'll just say one or two more sentences about criminal provisions. You've predicted a range of fines from 10,000 to three million. This is a very bad solution. With such a range of punishments, you will always put those who apply this law in a position to abuse it. Perhaps it was better to group these fines into several groups, say, between 10,000 and 100,000, and from 100,000 to 500,000, etc., because in this way you put everything in the same basket, item 1 point 3: "The fine of between 10,000 and three million dinars will be punished for the economic offense of a company: if it uses a shortened or modified business name, contrary to this law"; or point 19: "if it acquires and has a high value asset in a way contrary to this law". It's illogical, for example, for these two commercial offences to be in the same place and to apply the same penalty for them, or here it stands between 10,000 and three million. Who now guarantees that someone who applies these fines will not punish with three million who uses a short or modified name, and with 10,000 who acquires and disposes of the property of great value, in a way contrary to this law? I simply think that the law must and should be such that it does not leave many opportunities, I said that these days when we talked about some other laws, that it is high time we passed laws with concise, precise norms and that our laws leave as little opportunities for abuse as possible. The law should be applied and as little as possible. The hole in the law leaves. You know, if we're already harmonising regulations, we're bringing in brand-new regulations, then let's just bring them in exactly what they're supposed to look like. In principle, we have no objection and we know that it is necessary to pass this law, it is necessary to pass other laws, to comply with EU laws, but there is another issue that Serbia's citizens certainly expect of you, which is the launch of the economy, this is a problem related to all suspicious privatisations. Of course, I know that, and that's why good normability is needed, but I also say that even with current economic regulations, privatisation can work, privatisation can be implemented. After all, you yourself said that the Company Act was the basis for the adoption of this law. In the end, I want to say that Serbian citizens expect this authority and this government to do new jobs. Both the prime minister and the president of Serbia promised it. It is entirely irrelevant for the citizens of Serbia whether they work in a business or in a business, it is important for them to work. That's what Mr. Minister, which is expected of you, from your ministry, from your government and from the president of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8965	The word has a People's Messenger, Bozidar Koprivica, not here. MP Zoran Antic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can agree with Mrs. Verico, I don't think this law was that important and priority. On the Privatisation Committee, we were able to become aware that there are many legal solutions that are more important and urgent to Serbia at the moment, and these are laws that follow this privatisation. These are amendments and additions to the Law on Privatisation, the Anti-Monopolitan Law, because it is obvious that through the privatisation process more and more monopolies occur and these monopolies are already very harmful to the economy of Serbia and in some foreseeable period will make it impossible for us to create a product with which we will be able to go out to the world market. I think there are a lot of gaps in the Securities Market Act; a number of times mentioned instrument on taking action, so it puts our citizens in a position to be robbed, including those cases related to "Knjiza Miloš", "C Market" show that the law is unrecognizable. If our society's priority for privatisation is to end, I think the ministry should have addressed these problems, and that this law has its place and must be the backbone of the economic system, i.e. it is based on full entrepreneurship and the complete economy of Serbia. I have, unfortunately, forgotten this text of the law, but I have something recorded by what I have succeeded in this short period, and it is really inappropriate for this law to be placed as a part of the agenda for not full ten days; it is inappropriate because it is too large, it has about 450 members, and we usually consider the laws of 40 or 50 members, and it is ten times larger than those laws. It's inappropriate to leave such a short time to prepare. That's why I, like most MPs who went out for this pay phone, was in a position to review this bill. What bothered me the most is the corporate section; it seems to me that he has taken over, that he has not devoted enough attention, perhaps the most attitude in which farmers are not treated as entrepreneurs. I think it's a big mistake and if not in this law then in some new law, private entrepreneurship needs to be corrected. It is high time farmers who have ten or more hectares were treated as entrepreneurs. That way, we could save them from those who take their profits from trading organizations, from buyers. They could use that profit and that income that they make with their work to make personal progress. I think that in article 52, which speaks of the interruption of activity, there is indeterminateness, to insist on a short-term ban on performance. Entrepreneurs were inflicted on them by a great deal of evil, and they came into a situation to be double punished, first fined, then banned from action. There are a lot of members in the law who regulate the work of boards of directors and directors themselves. I think it's one qualitative advance, but it seems to me that in some members it's gone too far, that they're too extensive and unnecessary and that the whole law is written quite confusing, I'd say oddly. In the section relating to action, to small shareholders, as far as I could see, there are too many limits that apply to small shareholders, and given our small action culture, these limits should be reduced. I am sure that the MPs of the SRS, speaking of amendments, will try to make sure that these restrictions that make it impossible for small shareholders to fight for some rights to be reduced. As an example, I would say that an expert trustee, treated in Article 334, requires 20% of the capital of small shareholders, and that is too much of a limit for small shareholders. I would say that the lack of those accompanying laws puts the question and the valuation of the capital of small shareholders at all, because we do not have a developed money market, so that the sale and value of the actions themselves are problematic; until the money market is established, until the stock exchanges function, we will not have the right value of action. In this way, I believe that small shareholders have been brought into an uneasy and irregular position. So much for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8967	The word is by MP Vojislav Milajic, not there, on the Committee. Since many MPs are on the board, and we have reached the end of the list, I ask the Minister of Economy if he wants a word? Here you go. We're done for today, but there'll be a sequel tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8968	What I'm saying is, it seems to me like I had a pretty easy job today when I had to prepare certain opinions and answers about previous discussions. The largest number of discussions was positive, and those MPs who tried to find something to do that was wrong in this law did not, however, resist in their discussions not to say any positive thing, regardless of all this effort. There's really no need for me to owe something. I'll just give a few characteristic tones or repeat what I said in the opening part of the presentation. In particular, given some of the negatives in practice, the protection of minority shareholders and members of society was particularly taken into account. So, equity minorities and the number of votes. If we want to give an assessment of a solution, it's impossible, not compared to something. When we compare this matter, we have to compare it with the Company Act that is still in force, and also with superficial insight it is possible to see a huge step in favour of the protection of minority shareholders in the proposal for this law. The importance attached to the protection of minority shareholders is seen in the fact that this issue is dedicated to a specific chapter, which further strengthens and provides additional guarantees. The contract is for party law from ancient Rome to this day, not only for parties but for founders. By respecting that rule, the law went to deregulation, to the lesser regulation of the relationship between its partners, among the members of society, and more left to the members of society, i.e. the founders to resolve their fate. This is natural for the following reason: all of our laws so far, including one of the good expenditures that was made in 1996 towards the reform of the Company Act, for the base they had social property and enterprises with majority social property. This law is aimed at private capital. Social property had one natural flaw – social capital had no defence mechanism, had no ability to immunity, to fight negative phenomena, to say and theft. It simply had to be legal to protect that social property as much as possible. When it comes to private capital, it has this natural property of immunity and defence, so it is possible to leave it to shareholders, partners, as well as to all other forms in which members of a society appear, because they will find the best way to protect their capital and their interests. One very important thing, which is related to what I just said, is the flexibility of the law, which can be treated as an important achievement of this law, and above all in allowing the very members of society to adapt the institutes of that society to their needs. A huge incentive has also been given to establish a limited-responsibility society by prescribing a significantly lower level of base capital minima. As for this factor, I will point out that in professional circles, among those who worked most on this law there was a lot of resistance and they wanted to leave these limits at a very high level. I don't think they had in mind the existing situation in our country, the social programmes, many unemployed and I stood up and fought for one of these easier conditions to establish a limited-responsibility society, where everyone gets a chance, or the greatest number of people get a chance to take their own or business initiative to start solving their own destiny. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, I agree that this issue is treated in a mining form. But this isn't the corporate law, this is the company law. Entrepreneurs do not constitute companies, but they carry out economic activity, and therefore I think it is justified to pay particular attention to entrepreneurs in a certain way, precisely because of the exercise of economic activity, while some other regulations regulate the issue of entrepreneurial activities. I personally don't mind it being the level of the law, and I think that might be the best solution, because we've had that issue regulated by a legal act so far. There have been some problems with literacy, illiteracy; sometimes text grudges speak more about readers than about writers. I am a promoter, but I never took the right to say that I wrote it, that it was my work. It's really been done by a very professional team. Some estimates of literacy and illiteracy have been made somewhat lightly. There are sentences that are really too long, but that doesn't mean they're incomprehensible. There have also been some remarks about how much we have used practice, which is stated in the very explanation, and European initiatives and other laws. I remember, and I believe most of them in the O.R., as well as the critics, because we're here for some similar years, that original joint labour law solution. I'm an expert lawyer, so I worked at a firm that had a lot of contact with strangers. I sat there explaining our original solution, and I never came into a situation to make sure they understood. Now, that's the original solution. What does the original solution mean? The original solution is also when it's understandable, and when we don't have to talk to strangers that we want to see in our Atara, to make bigger foreign investments, direct investments, etc., we don't have to keep talking about our originality to be inoriginal and incomprehensible. And, just something else that really has nothing to do with the law itself, but I think in our circumstances, the best generator to launch an economy is fast and efficient privatisation. We all witnessed that in the previous period privatisation was made in those areas where it was easier to do so, with more successful businesses, which, in addition to some of the other measures that this government took, this year resulted in the growth of social gross products being about eight percent or even slightly more than that. It is really important that the changes to the Law on Privatisation, which will defuse certain things and speed up the flow of privatisation, are found before this assembly, so that it continues to be the generator of the growth of the social product. We will have these changes by the end of this year, with amendments to the Law on the Privatisation Agency and the Act on the Action Fund. There will also be imminent changes to the Charter of Values Act, which has created a lot of practical problems and misunderstandings so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-12-0.u8969	On the basis of Article 81(4) and due to the importance of the law on the agenda and the need for urgent adoption, and all in the interest of citizens, we continue work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
