ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1598	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session today is attended by 131 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 96 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from being attended by MPs Meho Omerovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Gordana Comic (before noon). We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests at the PRIOR OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONS (resuming in principle) I give the word to the MP, Jovan Palalic, and let the MP Zarko Obradović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1599	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of his discussion on the proposed law, I would like to quote a piece from one of our very important documents, which, on the one hand, very clearly explains the situation in our public services, and on the other hand, points out why it was important to pass this law and why it was important to bring it much earlier. The quote reads: "Corruption is an area of great concern. Some progress has been made by adopting the Law on the financing of political parties in Serbia and the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering in Montenegro. These laws still need to be fully implemented, in particular to pass other key anti-corruption laws, such as the code of conduct of civil servants and the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. This legal vacuum has in practice led to the inability to respond adequately to some serious accusations involving senior civil servants and ministers. "This quote, as you know, from the European Commission's 2004 Stabilisation and Association report, very clearly points to the fact that this regulation is the most important and basic anti-corruption regulation, without which an empty vacuum remains in this area. All that had been done earlier on in this matter was mostly walking along the edge of the problem, and it was avoided clearly that such a law was passed. Our unquestionably European commitment, which has been confirmed several times in this assembly, has been expressed in the prime minister's exposé of enhanced pro-European policy, must be traced to these conclusions by the highest authorities of the European Union, in which one day we want to integrate. It is obvious that this government is beginning to act concretely, to meet the parts of its programme, just by laying down regulations in the European spirit. This government is not talking about Europe, it is talking about European acts. That is why it is very important to highlight this European dimension of the adoption of this law. The level of corruption in this report that I have mentioned for our country in many places has been mentioned and assessed as very high, and as one of the most prominent problems besides organised crime; it goes hand in hand with it. Some organisations that have established our country's corruption perception index for 2003 have placed us at the very bottom, from 90 countries to 89th place. The above quote states that the absence of such a law could not adequately respond in practice to some serious accusations. Those charges are known to the public. Financial abuses by individual members of the former prime minister's cabinet, abuse of membership in the Republic Development Fund and benefits in tenders for private firms of former ministers, some of whom resigned after detecting these abuses. These were classic cases of conflict of interest that envisioned the law we're discussing. Unfortunately, legal certainty does not allow retroactive application of this law to sanction these cases. However, in some ways these events that were discovered last summer have produced one serious consequence for the institutions. They are destroyed, trust in them is diminished, and the state service is considered a chance for personal gain. There's nothing worse for a country than to be viewed as a luxuriant job by the service in it. Then everything gets twisted, and those honorable officials are equalized with the wicked, and the state becomes an instrument of individuals. No rule of law, no democratic institutions. These phenomena of corruption have violated the very foundations of the state, so that at one point they could talk about the phenomenon of capture of the state by powerful state officials, who were also businessmen. This is what the former government has left us, who has persistently refused to put a regulation like this before us on the congregation's agenda. Because of the absence of such a regulation in the previous period, we are entitled to be given one of the most corrupt states. It is now an opportunity for this assembly to take a truly pro-European step at the beginning of its mandate and for our country to enter into the ranks of those many countries, some of which are also in our immediate environment, which have been regulated by law by the area of conflict of private and public interest. They started fighting corruption in the highest state bodies. The adoption of such a law will be a step towards establishing ethics in public services, a condition for stabilising institutions in Serbia, as well as an introduction to the establishment of one of the rights existing in the European Union, which are citizens of the European Union, which is the right to a good administration. As for concrete solutions from the proposed law on preventing conflicts of interest in public functions, we can say that this law is a pair of anti-corruption excellencies. It affects public services and officials at all levels of government and thus strives to cover this matter in a comprehensive way and combat conflict of interest at every step. Cases of conflict of interest in other bodies and institutions will be regulated by special regulations, according to Minister Loncar yesterday, as these cases are specific. These are cases of institutions and holders of judicial functions. In addition to the provision of sanctions for the violation of this law, as pointed out several times, they are more moral, it must be noted that the whole spirit of this law is a prevention against corruption and conflict of private and public interest. The whole law is a reminder to every official to refrain from actions that would highlight private interest and put public in the subjugation. That's good. At each step, there are obstacles to the introduction of private interest at the expense of the public. In the framework of the conditionality of the general provisions, the concept of conflict of interest and of the actions considered to be so shall be specified precisely. The functionator shall not use a public function to obtain any benefit to himself or a connected person, whose notion, the concept of a connected person, is given in Article 4(3) broad enough to ensure that prevention is guaranteed. There are clearly lists of actions that are forbidden to the functionor. He must not use his public function in such a way as to favor himself or others in an interesting way. Following these general provisions, specific norms affecting the fight of conflicts of interest, the reporting of property of officials whose condition is permanently controlled, the status of the boards of directors and the exercise of management, management functions in public undertakings and other limited economic operators, since there was mainly the largest source of this conflict of interest. Many representatives of the former government were not only in the pair but in dozens of boards of directors. Of course, there is a restriction on receiving gifts in connection with performing a public function. It is necessary to highlight the importance of the committee, from republican to local, which solves possible cases of conflict of interest, which can be initiated both by legal or natural persons and by these committees under official duty. These committees, which play an important role in this system of preventing conflicts of interest, must ensure independence and independence, as stated in the basic provisions of this Regulation. The Republic's Committee is now being told that the law proposes a way of establishing it, that this will be guaranteed. As for local and regional, it remains to be seen, there is the Assembly and whether there is a need to fight corruption in these areas. The choice of people to these committees will especially mean the success of the fastest action in preventing conflicts of interest. Certain monitoring measures given to the Republic's committee towards local committees, which is good, could have been broader. In the local environments, this kind of political passion is somewhat more aggressive and exclusive, there are greater passions, so it must pay particular attention to really guaranteeing the objective and impartial work of these committees. Of course, it is clear that such a brief regulation could not regulate everything in detail. The types of measures to be expressed in the event of a conflict of interest are clearly built, depending on the severity of the injury, but also on how to acquire function, choice, appointment or setting. Regardless of these measures have only a moral character, the fact that the work and decisions of the board are available to the public, it is precisely that preventive force that once has a greater impact on public affairs than on classical penalties. It can't be, however, any official who holds on to his political and personal credibility to measure public disclosure of violations of the law in some daily list. It is not true that it will not affect the position of the official, because in Serbia, however, progress has been made when it comes to democracy and other freedoms. This work and the authority of the committee strengthens the role of the public in our political life against abuse, as well as the ethics of public services; a state is created in the right mammal of that word. Finally, by this regulation, we restore citizens' confidence in state institutions, affirm the ethics of public services, make it an attractive state service again, which will give quality through competitiveness in work-reception competitions that are necessary, and that the planned changes are implemented. And, above all, by this regulation, we are serious about our intention to one day become part of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1600	The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, followed by MP Slobodan Pajevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1601	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, the SPS is for the adoption of this law because we think it's an extremely important law. I must say that for the adoption of this law for two reasons: firstly, we consider this law to be a new breakthrough in the construction of institutions and a new value system to be established in the Republic of Serbia; secondly, yesterday afternoon, when we were not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there was a colleague from the Democratic Party who tried to represent that we left the Assembly for reasons that we were against the adoption of this law, because as we fear the consequences of this law, which in itself is ridiculous. But, you know, there's a lot of things that you can hear from this pay phone, and that's a ridiculous claim. On the contrary, we are in favour of the adoption of this law, and none of us Socialists will be subject to the provisions of this law, and we really care that finally in Serbia, if you want to through the application of this law, see who, how much and how much he has and what he has acquired in politics alone. It's another thing when someone deals with other actions, but it turns out that the people who talk about morality and honesty the most will be the most subject of this law. Of course, there won't be any SPS. I'm not saying this by chance, because over the past three years, we've been the subject of special attention from DOS, especially the Democratic Party, with one of the terrible tortures that has been done towards us. It was seen that those criminal charges were known, if there was anything that was put under the shadow of suspicion that the Socialists had done, it was, of course, the subject of the investigation. However, the problem was that the laws were passed to apply selectively, for one law was not applicable to others, because this same law was also discussed three years ago, then by DS and DOS, but not adopted. As other laws have been discussed, and yet selectively implemented; the extraprofit law is known for whom it was brought, the socialist among them does not, as well as some other laws, say the budgetary system, where those transactions to which the minister or ministers had the right, which they had previously performed, are declared abuse of official office, and are now subject to the provisions of the law. This just by the way, and just because we're about to pass this law doesn't mean we think the law is good. It is important, but we think that there are certain shortcomings and that these shortcomings should be addressed by the adoption of certain amendments, because the law needs to be improved and particularly applied. In fact, we think that the essence of this law is that it is more moral, even more political, because whoever is subject to the sanctions of this law will suffer more politically than legal sanctions, and simply that is one dimension that follows this law. I say, it is important that the law be passed so that institutions in the Republic of Serbia, which have been destroyed over the past three years and a value system that does not exist, simply establish that we as a society, as a state, could take one significant step forward. One logical question arises, why has this law not been passed over the past three years, at the same time that they lectured on morality, the principles of conduct, transparency, respect for the law, sacrifice for the people and for the state. Well, for the simple reason that those who exercised power at that time, which is DOS and DS, didn't fit, and it didn't suit them because they did everything that, I say, was the subject of this law and they shouldn't have done it. The government members were members of the boards of directors, two, three, five, and even more than 10 companies; members of the government had their own private firms and they didn't hide it, they were probably jobs done; government members were privatised directly or through their relatives, closer to relatives; advisers of the Prime Minister were bankruptcy managers of certain enterprises, their sons-in-laws and godmothers were also bankruptcy managers of companies with significant assets. Of course, then we came to the realization that these same advisors own millions of bills in banks, not domestic but foreign, which probably came from the sky. They did not, of course, pass this law because in the meantime they increased their capital 10 times and simply did not want to know how that wealth was obtained. In every way, they used their public office to gain a certain favorable circumstance. In fact, I have to remind myself, since this is forgotten, that over the past three years there have been 50 or 60 affairs, of which analysts estimate that 20 to 25 were affairs that had this material dimension. It means an illegal way to acquire property. But surely, when the financial police search what has been done through the ministries and through public enterprises, we will be in a position to learn much about how it has been done over the past three years and to come up with one fundamental reason why neither this law nor others who have been notoriously announced have ever been brought forward. Now something concrete about this law. In fact, we think there are certain objections and I'll try to make at least a few of them public in a few minutes. In Article 2 paragraph 3, we think there is no reason why outside this law officials should remain appointed to the bodies of institutions and other organisations whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. In fact, here is a paradoxical situation that we have public enterprises with a few dozen employees, and we have institutions that have several thousand employees, which have significant financial resources, which act as entities. They deal with other activities, but they also deal with finance, and objectively there is the possibility that a person appointed to such a significant function would do something that could be the subject of this law. We think it's bad, that it just didn't take this part of the story, about conflict of interest, to let it be regulated by a special law. We think it could have been subdued under this law, too. Then, in Article 4(3), the categories of persons associated are very wide, which, in our opinion, makes this part of the law inapplicable. In fact, the content of this article mentions this circle of connected faces, but there is also a provision that seems broad enough to cover those faces. We believe that there was no need for guidance, because it seems to me that the formulation that any other legal or natural person who, according to other grounds and circumstances, can reasonably be considered a related interest is quite good and satisfies what, in our opinion, the legislator wanted to create a circle of persons subject to this law. If we link this circle of related persons to the obligations of officials related to Article 12 on the reporting of assets, because it lists who belongs to a circle of persons whose property is to be reported, then we come up with an interesting situation to report the property of a son, daughter, brothers and sisters. I say this for one simple reason, officials in Serbia are usually middle-aged people, because there are few younger people who come to such important places and they by nature things have a wide family, and if family people have adult children. One logical question arises, who can and on what basis ask these adult children, who are certainly economically, legally and in any other way independent, who can ask them to look into property if they are not directly subject to the law, because this can cause some other consequences. We don't think that's the way it was supposed to be. Then we have an objection to Article 8. We suggested that the article be deleted, because we think that the provisions of this article are inapplicable, primarily given the definition of a related person. I return to that category, as well as the obligation of officials to transfer their management rights in a commercial entity to a legal or physical person under completely unclear conditions. I must say, in our opinion, other than these directors of the facility, there is also a very wide range of people in the structure of the government, who are not the subject of this law and who can objectively use their position for personal wealth at some lower levels. Remember only the possibility of obtaining permits, property-legal relations; construction jobs themselves are very profitable and in these areas there are many cases that are contrary to the law. Then, issuing licences, etc. These people are in the structure of the government below the level of those officials that this law covers, but they are very important and can be the subject of illegal wealth, or what is meant by conflict of interest. We also think they're paying, even that part about the board members and the secretary board, is not appropriate. It is proposed in the law that a member of the board has a personal income of seven average salaries, which is high, because then, in relation to a member of the staff, he has three or four times the salary, and if you look at the secretary of that committee, who should have the highest salary of three paid secretaries, then the relationship is even more pronounced, four or five regular pay. It may have another dimension of the story, let's say that a full-time MP is not adequately paid for his job, but in any case, this disproportionate is very large and I think it needs to be reduced. I think we should share fate; if a MP can be the subject of the law and one who should determine through certain proceedings whether there was a conflict of interest should also share his fate. About the measure of breaking this law; we saw and I mentioned it as one of the shortcomings, we have measures of unpublic warning, measures of publication of resolution recommendations and recommendations for resignation. Of course, they will have their own political dimension, but it's a shame they don't have any other kind of sanctions, because we think that then people who deal with this area would be much more careful about what they're doing. Anyway, we think it's good to have the law passed. We think there's a flaw in his contents. We have proposed a number of amendments, we believe that the law can be improved and should be applied as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1602	The word is from MP Bojan Pajtic, mentioning the Democratic Party in a negative context.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1603	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen MPs, Mr. Minister, this is absolutely in a negative context. I don't know why my colleague Obradovic accepts that, I don't know by whose address or initiative, he muds the Democratic Party, really without any argument. What does that look like? What 50, 60 financial affairs are related to the Democratic Party? Why do you mention the Democratic Party? If there was anyone in the previous government, tell them who had an affair or who possibly had a private firm. Which of the ministers from the Democratic Party had a private firm and what 50, 60 financial affairs are tied to the Democratic Party? It was related to a single member of the Democratic Party, the problem of whether the minister participated in a decision granting loans to one municipality, and among other things was allocated to her mother-in-law, and then the Prime Minister asked her to be resolved and the woman came out of the Democratic Party. What are the other 50, 60 affairs? Let's keep the civilization level of this debate. Don't bring up anything that's truly notorious. If there were ministers who had private businesses, consider whether these ministers were in the government with all parties, except perhaps with the Serbian Radical Party in this session, but I think it was also with the Serbian Radical Party. So, name and last name who possibly had a company. It wasn't any member of the Democratic Party, and don't put anything on us that's not decent at all. If someone committed a crime, the authorities will investigate. As for the adoption of this law, over 150 laws were passed by the Assembly in the previous assembly. Compare that with two previous convocations when you were the majority in this congregation. We've passed a lot more laws. We've passed a whole set of anti-corruption laws -- public procurement law, political party financing law, tobacco law, tax system law, a whole set -- and there are a few hundred other laws to be passed by parliament in this and in the next assembly if we want to enter Europe. But we can't get into Europe by replacing thesis with such flat-rate stories 50, 60, 150, 380, that's total nonsense, and especially you who were chairman of the Assembly of Jugopetrol, the Prime Minister was an exclusive importer and exporter of wheat, and the son and daughter of the president of the party and the state were the owners of discotheques and television.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1604	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1605	My colleague Pajtic obviously interprets me the way he wants me to, but the indisputable fact is...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1606	Just tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1607	Article 97 The indisputable fact is that over the past three years, the Democratic Party has been someone who boasted that the pillar of the government, the spine, the axis, call what you will, that all that is right is the Democratic Party, and of course what is wrong, they have pushed it under the carpet and they will not reproduce it. It has to be said that Serbia must also know that you did the government that had 64 affairs. Look at the Sunday paper last year, and you'll see. I said 50 to 60, and now I'm telling you 64, about 25 of which were material dimensions. Nothing's been solved until the day we were found. Why? Because you don't want to look for the guilty one among yourselves. That story about reforms, about laws, about 150 laws, it's a story for little children, because you didn't pass laws that were unfavorable for you, or if there were those provisions, you were untouchable. That is why criminal charges have been filed against our people, which last for three years and to this day have not been resolved. Some of them are, but obviously neither you nor the media are interested, but they tell the same story all the time. And this law on public procurement and so on, I guess you heard that the commission never met to check certain public procurement and that there were 3,000 complaints. It seems to me that Professor Gašo Knezevic was the president of such a commission, which had not been meeting for two and a few years, to put at least one of these remarks on the agenda, so to say - it is not true or similar. So don't tell us about it. You have to swallow. If you do not, Serbia will know, in any case, that you were the ones who spoke most of morals, of justice, of honesty, of transparency, of sacrifice for the people, and you filled your pockets. How much? That's what we'll see when this law comes into effect, so when everyone reports their property. Why didn't you pass the law on an investigation into the origin of the property? You talked -- we want to know how many people in Serbia allegedly have illegally earned money. Why didn't you pass the law? You could have. As far as our socialist is concerned, I tell you directly -- you could, but you didn't want to, because you had to fill your pockets first, and then you just passed the law, which you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1608	On what basis do you want the word? Mr. Zarko Obradovic reported to the Rules of Procedure, and you're looking for a replica of his exposure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1609	I don't like situations like this, especially when someone tells me I need to swallow a lie. Mr. Obradic, the basic courtesy states that if you say someone filled their pockets, you say who filled their pockets, who abused the government. If someone misused power, did the first DS convict him, did the first DS solve someone, did the first DS seek to resign someone who didn't do a good job? It's completely unnatural for you from your party to give us lessons, which you've institutionalized corruption. When the Extraprofit Act was passed, 19 were the basis for wealth. Billions have come out of the pockets of the citizens of this country. You institutionalized that, it's true. The laws were passed, so it was possible to buy on the official exchange rate and sell on the black course. It was possible that you had a monopoly on imports and on exports of various products that were making huge profits. It was possible, just as it was legally observed and in accordance with the law of killing Jews during World War II in Nazi camps, so it was in accordance with the law and legalism of what you were doing. That was the kidnapping of billions of dollars in the pockets of the citizens of this country. Don't talk about parties and about swallowing something that's a lie. If someone committed a crime, they must answer, regardless of which political party they belong to. Please don't abuse that kind of cheap demagogy. It's incorrect, like 3,000 complaints. Where did you dig up that information, where did you dig up 64 affairs? Here, I accept he's having 3,685 affairs, but let's see who made those affairs. There are no DS members, and as many as there are, each one needs to be held accountable to who broke the law. You, whose obvious conflict of interest was the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister of the State, so that millions of citizens of this country see it for years, really have no moral right to lecture us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1610	I ask all MPs to respect the dignity of this institution in which they are located and not to abuse a pay phone for their inter-party accounts. Mr. Zarko Obradovich, on what grounds do you want the word? National MP Zarko Obradović, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1611	If the current government has enough power, the public of Serbia, and Serbia will find out what so few DS have been doing in the past three years, what was obtained without public competitions, what was placed in their pockets. I wasn't making it up. I listed this information from your transparent press, from the media. You and today hold all the media and no one else can get the right to say, except from this assembly pay phone, what you've been doing, and you can't forget. Don't give us a lecture on some illegal wealth or anything. Was it the Extraprofit Act? Yes. Were the subjects of that law supposed to be socialists - yes. Did you talk about three billion marks? Minister Djelic lectured us from here that Serbia would flourish by three billion. What was it, 180 million marks? It's a matter of dispute and it's claimed to be coming back. You've been returning to some of you, as it suits you, when you have to punish him, then give the money, and when you need to get back together and show up on the media, give the money.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1612	Mr. Obradovic, I warn you not to use the speaker for the line, according to article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1613	The dignity of the National Assembly implies being told the truth. In that list of extraprofits were three men who were members of the SPS: Mr. Zika Mihajlović - charged extra profit; Mr. Zivadin Jovanovic - charged extra profit; Mr. Milan Milutinović, some 20,000 marks - charged profit. What are you talking about? Who are the real extra-profits in Serbia? Those whom DS and DOS have removed from public insight and, of course, probably, with a certain arrangement put out of public view, out of the sight of the state authorities. That's what interests Serbia, let's see who the real extraprofessors are, and then tell us about morality.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1614	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1615	I'm referring to Article 100 1 and 2 because I'd like to end this debate, not because I'm uncomfortable listening, because my God, it's politics, but because at least we at the DSS have always tried not to generalize things. It's the flat-rate charges - the SPS was stealing, the DS was stealing. There are people, individually, and in the SPS, who were responsible and legally punished, there are people in the DS, who are probably responsible for some things, and will also be punished under the law. It does not lead us anywhere in generalisation and flat-rate accusations that the parties who led the stealing policy were leading the corruption policy, systematically implementing it in the depths. That's what individuals do, and that's what they need to answer for. I'd like to go back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1616	People's MP, on what grounds? National MP Zarko Obradovic had an objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you are looking for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1617	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask for a little patience, because we really don't abuse ourselves as a Parliament club this pay phone. I'm asking for patience because the citizens of this country and these claims are generalization, they're pointless. There are no DS members, as far as I know, and correct me if I'm wrong, against whom a criminal report for some financial malfeasance has been filed. If it does, he'll have a name and a last name and he'll have to answer. The DS has been the opposition party for months and no more criminal proceedings. We'll see if there are any judicial convictions. I was talking about what the president of the assembly was during the SPS, which was the director, what the Prime Minister was doing, what the president of the state was doing. It's not just not only notorious facts, but they never challenged it. But don't look back at DS the way you're gonna completely falsify the facts. I have no intention of replicating and participating in the conversion of this congregation into something that should not be, into a circus. We need to discuss a law that is good, which represents a continuation of a set of anti-corruption laws that we have passed in the previous term. God forbid the congregation in this congregation should be as productive as the congregation in the previous congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1618	The word is by MP Slobodan Pajovic, followed by MP Milan Stevovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1619	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law on preventing conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions is necessary within the framework of an anti-corruption set of laws and there is general agreement on this. However, the bill that we have before us contains a series of shortcomings, inaccuracies and inaccuracies that are obviously due to the hasty adoption of this law, because this law was not in public debate. I believe that MPs in this assembly will have the ear to accept suggestions and remarks, and the ministry's representative himself has indicated that he will accept certain suggestions made by all MPs, and in particular MPs from the DS-Boris Tadic list, which will be outlined through amendments that will be explained. First of all, I would like to point out one point in this law concerning all of us in this congregation, which is not only about the conflict of public and private interest, but directly points to a violation of the sovereignty of the National Assembly, which is guaranteed by the Assembly. In fact, MPs are only responsible for their work to citizens, their voters, and this law provides that some committee can call, propose to the MPs to return their mandate. It turns out by this law that this committee is above citizens, above the electoral will of citizens. We are also familiar with the view of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia that the party whose lists have been elected cannot decide on the mandates of the MPs. However, the legislator himself makes some exceptions when it comes to MPs and separates them from other officials, expressing that the legislators of this law do not belong to the same category as other officials, but that attitude is inconsistencies. I believe that in this law those questions concerning Members of Parliament may remain, concerning the list of assets, the property of the persons associated with them. Any conflict of interest related to MPs can be regulated by the Law on People's MPs. I thought that with some colleagues, in this regard, I also submitted an amendment, but I gave up on it, because I believe that a broad consensus is needed to resolve this issue and therefore I propose that the legislator of this law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, intervene with one amendment and, in this sense, exempt the MPs from this law. But in this speech, I'm going to refer specifically to some solutions that are crucial in this law, which have significant shortcomings. The law stipulates that officials can only be members of one Management Board. The essence of the conflict of interest is that the officials are members of the executive boards. If someone is like him and can, from the officials, be a member of a board of directors, then the question is, why not be a member of more boards? My opinion is that officials cannot be members of any board of directors and that it is the only preventive action in this law to prevent conflict of interest. The second important question is about the Republic Committee. In particular, I would refer to the composition and selection of members of the Republic Committee, the question of the resolution of members of the Republic Committee, the circle of persons who may be elected as members of this Committee and the relationship of the municipal committee to the Republic and the provincial committees. I don't think it's a good solution for members of the board of directors, ten of them, to be proposed by the Serbian Academy of Sciences, according to the bill, and five of them are elected by the National Assembly. I don't think it's necessary for one of the highest scientific institutions to be dragged into the highest supervisory authority. I'm a lawyer, but I'm against lawyers having to give a representative, a member of the board of directors, because I don't see any particular reason for that. Of course lawyers can be members, but to be elected under the same conditions and criteria under which other persons are elected. The law does not contain at all criteria on the basis of which certain members of the Republic Committee may be elected. It should be foreseen by the law that professional training must have, how much work experience, what reputation. The law only provides that they cannot be members of political parties. But I don't think that's a good solution either. If something was wanted in that direction, then only political party officials could be excluded, but it is unnecessary to exclude all party members. The law provides for a member of the Republic Committee to be authorised by the Republic Committee itself. That's one of the worst solutions. I propose and believe that a member of the Republic Committee should be resolved by the National Assembly. I think the proposal to be a completely different composition of the Republic Committee is much more acceptable. Our proposal is for this committee to number seven members and to propose one President of the Republic, two members of the High Council of Justice, two members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and two members of the National Assembly, and the National Assembly to elect a Republic Committee. I'm not going to talk about this in detail right now, because it's going to be the subject of the amendment. I would also like to say something about a clumsy formulation concerning the relationship of the Republic Committee with the provincial and municipal committees, where municipal and rural committees are said to be obliged to comply with the regulations and opinions of the Republic Committee. I believe that this is contrary to Article 3 where committees are intended to be independent and independent, and since no two-stage procedure is envisaged, I do not think there should be any relationship between the authority and the subordination of these committees. I hope that objections will be accepted and that this law will not be adopted in the form in which it is proposed, because in that case it will be like the Guide of God, nor will it help, nor will it help to prevent conflicts of interest, and it will cost much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1620	The word has a National MP Milan Stevović; (not here). The People's Messenger Nadika Momirov has a word. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Zivorad Smiljanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1621	Dear MPs, this law of conflict of interest of the Socialists will support, and especially the ambassadors of Vojvodina, because we have a minister from Vojvodina, so we have a special obligation to support it. I don't know how the law will work, and before I start talking about it, when we discussed this law, we Socialists, our fellow MP, the director of Simpa Milan Nikolic told us a true anecdote. When such a law began to apply in Poland, the situation "Simpo" built a department store, and a construction worker fell and hurt himself. They decided to check on him. They told them at the hospital they couldn't bring anything in, because they couldn't take anything except flowers. They took a large bouquet of flowers, came to the hospital looking for a doctor who had operated, found it and amazed themselves, at the door it was written in big letters – the doctor does not drink flowers. I mean, we gynecologists, and there are two of us here, we'll be in a position when someone brings us a gift and when we give him a son, which is the custom of Serbian, to honor, and the doctor and the midwife, we'll have to if we get a gift to see the bill, so if it's too much to have the Serbian Government's bills and to pay that surplus, and we'll have to have a gift of up to 3,000 dinars. I'm kidding, I'm kidding, because I don't know what it's going to look like in practice to check out my sister-in-law's estate, which is from Belgrade, so let me just say, I'm interested in what your brother inherited. I'd be ashamed to ask, let alone check it out. There's only one thing I want to ask the government and I'll always use every phone booth to finish with one story. The biggest corruption, the biggest robbery, the biggest abuse is in privatisation. Millions of marks, millions of euros are converted into private pockets by legal robbery of social property. I'm asking this government, there's corruption, there's bribery, and we know our tycoons and the wealthy socialists, who have been lax about money, so they're getting rich, and that's the truth. They're not ungrateful. Whoever made it possible for our rich man to get 10m euros, as he received this privatisation, he was always grateful, and whoever gave it back at least 10% or 1m euros directly to his hands. No one can prove it and no one can see it. So I ask that this robbery privatisation be stopped. If it is not stopped, the past power has fallen on it, and this power will fall much faster, and we together have no mandate to support it, because we promised the citizens that we would fight such privatisation, that the Law on Labour, the Law on Employment and the Law on PIO...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1622	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1623	Therefore, I end, please, the biggest corruption and bribe is in the existing Privatisation Act and we need to change it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1624	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1625	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. There's a whole series of lies behind this pay phone. It seems to me that the previous MP forgot that he did not live in the 1990s, when heisting corruption privatisation was through grey commercial transactions, when state enterprises were doing business with private companies in the so-called so-called so-called state-owned enterprises. The reverse economy. That social enterprise when it sells something it asks to be paid cheaper so the director can take the commission and put it in his pocket. Therefore, my dear gentlemen, you have participated in the largest robbery privatisation by delaying regulated privatisation, regulated by law, because no law on privatisation that you have passed nor was it limited by a time-limited time arm, during which the privatisation period should be carried out, nor was it a definitive break with self-management and socialism, but was just a bunch of discretionary places for corruption. Tell me, please, when you talk about robbery privatisation, where there are discretionary places that allow corruption. Corruption exists if you give any authority, government, agency, any body to decide whether to take this or that buyer. Corruption existed when you were conducting a direct sale of Telecom when you did not organise a tender, when you did not allow other potential participants to participate in the tender, to participate in the purchase of telecommunications in Serbia. Telecommunications is a family treasure for every national economy, and you know very well how you sold Telecom, and how you organized mobile phones, and everything else you did during your term of office. And how you ruined the country, how you took $150 billion in sanctions from your policy. It is truly sad to listen to those who destroyed the earth today preaching some moral code, some morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1626	I ask all MPs to respect just the member who advertises and so does MP Aleksandr Vlahovic. On what basis do you want the word? He said I was lying. Article 97) Article 97 is the basis for replication. He said you were lying? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1627	Mr. Vlahovic, the Apathian brewery was sold "Interbru", and it wasn't you who sold it, it was sold by workers. Do you know how much we got for it - 260 million euros. Niksicka brewery was sold under your law, which was applied by Montenegrins, which was the same as ours, for 12.5m euros. Mr. Vlahovicu, we were the best municipality, and your privatisation has led us to now in Apatino of 12,000 employees for 4,000, and 6,000 are on the bureau and 6,000 we have a pensioner. Secondly, you sold our transport company, Mr. Vlahovic, for 300,000 euros. A privateer when he bought it, only a gas station he singled out and sold for 2.5m euros. Therefore, it is your privatisation. You destroyed the land, you destroyed it, because we didn't sell anything, unfortunately. We have not finished privatization under our law, such as the Apathian brewery privatized and where workers have become wealthy thanks to our privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1628	There's no replica on the replica. I'm sorry. He was looking for an article in '97 that's a replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, member 100. I'm just gonna ask you not to hurt article 100. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1629	I'll tell you right now, there's lies behind the pay phone again. The privatisation law applicable in Serbia has never been applied in Montenegro. When the Socialists talk about their successes, their mouths are full of four or five enterprises, which are the Apathian brewery, Hemofarm, the Metal Man, and then I say and, and who else; there is no more. These are, gentlemen, exceptions to the rule, and the rule is that you ran a policy of robbery, destroying Serbia. I told you a little while, 150 billion euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1630	People's MP, honor the 100th member you've advertised.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1631	I end up, 150 billion euros is the result of your brilliant economic policy in the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1632	I warn all the MPs once again that they respect the dignity of this institution and respect the 100th member who hurts themselves, and then advertise it. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic. Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1633	Article 97 - mentioned Socialists and 99 - MPs should speak what is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1634	Article 97 and Article 99. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1635	Article 97 and Article 99, and related to the mention of the Socialists, and that the MP should speak what is on the agenda. Kolega Vlahovic is an MP, and counterpart Vlahovic was very, very successful in privatisation, 1,000 and some companies are privatized for funny money. In the coming months, the way they're privatized will also be revealed. It would be good to read a report by the Anti-Corruption Council, which they formed, as privatisation was done, as they sold three sugars for three euros, as they sold what was worth selling and drilling into their breasts, and simply as they did the whole privatisation around Telecom. A billion and 546 million marks from the part of the public company, and you see how much you've been selling. One thing, which has been going on for a long time in the presentations of colleagues from the DS, is Article 99, the MP should talk about what's on the agenda. The sanctions, for those who do not know, and they seem to have them there, were imposed on 31 May 1992, because of a fictional event in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because Serbia supported the Serbian people outside Drina. These are notorous facts, and today it is seen that the second event, when sanctions were introduced in Yugoslavia, Serbia-Montenegro, was based on false reports.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1636	People's MP, Zarko Obradovic, and you don't stick to article 99.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1637	I'm talking about a party. A colleague mentioned something that wasn't on the agenda. You should ask yourself if the exact allegations in the NIN, three numbers before, where Germany's top pi-ar claims that your former president went and lectured on the need for NATO bombings to take place in 1999. It says in the NIN, look at it, so tell us if it's true or not, and then give us a lecture on everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1638	Again, I ask that you do not abuse the Rules of Procedure, that you do not harm the Rules of Procedure in those members you yourself advertise. And you have now injured members of 99th and 97th, as well as previous MPs. I think it's pointless. There is a word from the People's MP Nadica Momirov, and after that, MP Boris Karaicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1639	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, above all, I appeal to everyone to return to the subject, and the subject is the law on preventing conflicts of interest. It is my pleasure to have the opportunity to support for this speaker on behalf of G17 plus a law that once and for all needs to define the functioning of political officials towards a cleaner, fairer, and therefore only the right course. I believe that the problem this law deals with should be observed in two or three different time contexts. The first context is the time before October 5th, and I wouldn't waste my words on it, except to say that it's probably already the path of parallel political and economic functionality, where ordinary citizens, people, as many people like to say, have systematically petrified their eyes in a perfidious way, how the poor political official has struggled to barely put an end to the end, receiving his poor MP, minister or other political functioning salary. Of course, memberships in various boards of directors or directors were neither able nor allowed to mention them. Compensation for that, too. As it reached these places, too, except in the case of insubordination. Then, overnight, all their immoral participation in various administrative, supervisory, and other committees would be learned. So they branded them as traitors of the people, of course, but also of themselves, and warned potential traitors to let themselves be left behind. The second context has appeared since 5 October. A friend of mine in Norway once said to me, "You've easily given up everything positive in the socialist system, but that's why you kept a series of negativity of the same system." Unfortunately, the people who came to power on October 5th did not have the strength to resist temptation and to change their relationship with membership in the boards of directors and supervisors. It seems that many have too much wanted these petty, secret rewards and recognitions for their work and pawnage, and as a confirmation, but also as a satisfaction for their efforts, lost time and energy. If the government was burdened with this kind of burden, no wonder it ended that way. The question is, did we learn anything from all that? I'm gonna talk about context three here, or I'm gonna end up with these two. I want to talk about the third context. The third context comes through the constitution of the existing assembly and the adoption of laws on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which finally needs to be "legalized" by a double morale of a large number of officials. The step wolves of democracy must finally state whether they will continue to cheat cheaply on their countrymen, citizens and taxpayers, in a word, of course, in a corny way, the people, doing nothing more constructively than using their position as officials and not objecting to those who do not reward unrewarded places on such committees or who will look the truth into their eyes and say - this is no longer the case. I suggest this second. I will vote for this law, because I believe it closes another one of the many blind roads that our current political elite so carefully found and marched. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1640	The word has been given by MP Boris Karaicic, followed by MP Vojislav Milajic (not there), and then by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1641	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, before I start talking about the law, just a note that I really enjoyed the discussion between the SPS and the DS, and I can only say that it seems to me that both sides are right. When it comes to the law of us, the three NDS MPs, we will uphold the law in principle, but we will make some of the remarks that we have, because we believe that the law itself cannot be a guarantee that the problems of corruption and nepotism will be solved in our society. The law itself does not mean anything unless the people who need to enforce it have enough authority and the problems of ethics and morals in our society are more adequate and treated better. So we really live in society after all these 13 years, and as a young man, I've really spent more than half my life in such a society, which has failed. We faced a society that was both morally and ethically demoted, not to say a more difficult word. In such a society, it is very difficult to deal with such things, preventing conflicts of interest. You have one large number of people, a large layer, a variety of groups of people who in any way in 12, 13 years at least, indirectly, if not directly, were somehow involved in a conflict of interest, even though sometimes one of us changed foreign exchanges on the street, rather than where it was legally prescribed. In such a society, the problem of corruption really gnaws the fabric of our people, our society, and I believe that the intensity of this law is to change the character of our society. If so, and I think so, then this law can be viewed as a law that must be supported, even if it wasn't ideal in any sense. We who do public work, and above all those who are elected by citizens directly here, must be a better part of our society. It wasn't a big part so far, not to mention the former and former former government, the individuals, but we have to try to be a better part of society, because there are no moral categories that can be established by law. It had to be what was carried out from the house, from the family, either you have it or you don't have it, either you're honorable or you're not, but we can show it here in the Parliament, first of all, and those we choose to be honest. It is not always good to be dishonest and have a bad relationship with society and the country in which you live. With that in mind, a few things that seem to me to be a good note to law makers in the sense that this law can be fixed. So this law cannot be a substitute for those laws that already exist in our legislation. They can't be replaced by those laws that didn't apply because of the various gaps or the one that was supposed to apply it didn't work. So, first of all, I mean Criminal Law, which in some ways already treats the problem of corruption and crime, nepotism, under the name of abuse of position. If the prosecutor doesn't continue to work his job, like he didn't do the past, and his predecessors, we won't be able to adequately deal with this issue, simply because this law cannot play a role in sanctioning, but only to call morally and publicly and condemn those who have dared to become rich at the expense of our people. I ask the MPs to calm down.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1642	I beg the Members of Parliament to speak to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1643	I listened to you all the time when you spoke, so I'd like your attention. I can see that there are important things in progress. Therefore, these competent committees formed must not be special institutions to replace laws or courts. This must not be their intention, but these committees must deal with one thing that is fundamentally important to me, which is to make sure that the officials concerned by this law actually report all the property they are obliged to apply under this law. It's just that in itself, it's a difficult enough task, because no one can know in advance whether anyone who is obliged to report their entire property, and not only him, but also relatives on the straight and narrow lines. It's really hard sometimes for a brother, a sister, an uncle, an aunt, even to get her to report all the property, but still, that law has to be settled in one way. He can't solve it differently, but he can make a commitment to those people to report it. In this regard, we have a little problem that is political, which is not about the very text of this law. We have not yet had the provincial elections in Vojvodina, and it may happen to us, I warn this time, that the current furniture of the government in Vojvodina, which has lost all possible legitimacy, comes into a situation that, by applying this law, they choose a circuit board that needs to tell someone whether he has worked morally or not. Now it's really hard to understand that Chanak and that team can have that moral right and that they decide on the composition of that committee. If that is not possible to prevent, because the elections have not yet been held and will probably not be held until September, then I appeal to the creators of this law to find a way, since it guarantees the continuity of the function of five years, that these people in the new assembly are replaced, because this problem would be solved. It must be taken into account, if local and local municipalities in the region determine the composition of these committees, that the will of citizens is behind it, not what was three years ago. In our society, there's an unwritten rule, I've been a witness for many years, and that's that nobody's guilty, and there's no money anywhere. So, for a while as a citizen, and not as an MP, I'm going to appreciate this law by how much he really managed to save money in this country's cash register, how many people on these committees have managed to deal with corruption and crime. And I'll appreciate it for how many people in some way are, I repeat, prevented from being used for the public register and for the money of all the citizens of this country. Only it will be possible to estimate as either good or bad. The law itself is not a guarantee that this committee can solve the problem it faces. I repeat in the end, we will vote in favour of this law, in principle, and we will vote if there are amendments which we have submitted and which others have also respected in general. In the end, I just want to warn you that it is really not appropriate for the secretaries and board members to have so many higher salaries than others, I think of the officials who have been elected directly or indirectly, because the great money that is obtained to perform their duties on the board is not a guarantee in itself that this someone is moral in that sense that it is only an obstacle and that he will not take advantage of that function. Now, so much for me, I hope I've somehow introduced you to some of our views and that this law has been improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1644	The word has been given by MP Rajko Baralic, followed by MP Miroslav Martic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1645	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected journalists, ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, need to pass a law like this. I'll try a few sentences, strictly sticking to the agenda, and I'll say why and give some concrete examples, since obviously in the previous and morning debate there was respect for the fact that there were no concrete names in this regard. It is also necessary to pass the law because it is normal for the public position of political or other officials to use instead of the basic economic public logic to make deals, to generate profits that are not a product of management or quality of goods and services offered, but interpersonal relations between persons who are officials in government, public enterprises, local and urban self-government and in the provinces. With that in mind, anyone well-intentioned can say that the adoption of this law is necessary and that is one of the reasons why SPS MPs will vote for this bill. There are a few things that might be dealt with in some way in these connected faces, in the succession order. For well - trained people, it is inappropriate for them to question their closest relatives and how they came into possession. It can help to corrupt family, family relationships. It would be better for the competent state authorities, primarily the tax authorities, to trust, under the official duty of candidate for Minister Petar Petrovic, if we pass such a law, what is their property status, what tax they pay, what immovable property they have and whether they have debts, as provided for by this law, etc. It's likely that practice itself will improve this kind of legal project, because I think the law has to be appropriate, among other things, and traditions, and mentality, and real achievement, and I think it's missing here and it's a feller here. There are other questions. We've had the opportunity to talk to Mr. Minister about this law, and I've set a concrete example, and I'm going to bring it up for this speaker without any ill will. The foreign minister should be elected these days. His own brother owns several large companies in Serbia. Will Mr. Rodoljub Draskovic now give up management rights over the PIK-Tavo company, or, say, the Juvitana Children's Food Factory, because his brother should be minister and what he has to do with it. They're adult faces, everyone's responsible for their actions, everyone's got their civil rights and everything else. So it's not that simple, and the law accurately prescribes what I'm saying here. It won't be easy for some of the provisions of this law to be implemented. A number of citizens won't understand what this is about. Practice will show if it can withstand a time test of what we're about to adopt or if we're going to have to change it. Why it takes the law and whether it was those who were very consciously violating certain principles and thus functioning and providing for themselves, their political party or their families with resources that would otherwise not belong to them under certain normal circumstances. Dear gentlemen, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic served as Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, as head of the DOS parliamentary club, the Democratic Party. His father-in-law was the director of Serbia's Health Protection Fund. It's the biggest financial organization in this country. There doesn't have to be any rusty intent, there doesn't have to be any ugly act, the very fact that they're related at that level is causing attention, causing suspicion in a number of citizens. Mrs. Zoran and Goran Vesic, as far as I'm concerned I'm free to say, they've been an elemental disaster in Serbia for the past three years, have been in so many important positions in this country, which have often been very connected. Mr. Zoran Vesic was Mr. Mijat Savic's special adviser to the Health Insurance Fund. Mr. Goran Vesic, except for these things he did in the field of security, special for this, special for that, and otherwise a military fugitive and sentenced to an effective prison sentence for deserting from the war unit, was until these days in the Ministry of Defence a man who was in charge of complete logistics. When someone in the army gets a chance to buy only spins, tomatoes, anything else, he's a big customer and he can, of course, in one way or another affect the choice, the quality, the payment deadlines. It can do a whole series of other things that are very important and that can lead to certain problems. Mr. Vuksanovic, former head of the Department of Sports at the Ministry of Education, president of the City Committee of the Democratic Centre, nephew of Mr. Dragoljub Micunovic, campaigning "Play for Life, Drugs Not", gave all the jobs related to the marketing needs of this administration to his wife. We have valid documentation, 19 million dinars cost this marketing campaign. That's inadmissible. You've asked for precise information, I'm providing precise information, and any of these people are suing me will not appeal to parliamentary immunity. That's why it's necessary for this law to exist. There's something else that requires this law to exist, because it's not normal for a number of people to be on several boards of directors with a range of 10,000 to 150,000 dinars. It just comes out of the frame of good taste, comes out of normal behavior. This will be an elegant way for a number of MPs to no longer be able to make incomes, which are practically nowhere to be recorded and which no one controls. That is why it is necessary to pass this law, and each other, in order to have insight into what is happening in this area. It is true that the Law on Public Procurement has been passed, it is true that the legislator's intention was to prevent corruption, it is true that the implementation of the Law on Public Procurement has certain problems, but it is also true that the Law on Public Procurement has allowed one number of persons to become enormously wealthy, although one of the reasons is that transparency in public procurement is necessary, and these concern all those who obtain from the budget, from the government, from the military, from the police, from local city and rural self-government. Therefore, it would be our obligation, as MPs, to create a normal environment for corruption, if it cannot cease to exist, to come down to the frameworks that it can be tolerated, that Serbian citizens can stand it, and that we have a constant tendency to stop it and that in one normal and effective way the state collects income from its citizens and that its citizens get the maximum for these revenues. If we have this elemental intention, then we can act as a normal parliament and then we can pass laws that will help Serbian citizens to live better and more normally than before. The SPS has submitted several amendments. I think some will be accepted. They should, in our opinion, improve the quality of the law and in this regard we have held certain consultations and talks. So I simply pray that we do not forget that there are absolutely innocents, that there are them and that they can be on all sides, that each of us should do all that can be done that there are no people in its environment who want to grab anything, adopt it in a way that is not legal, and that all of this is wrapped up in some form of public exposure to the will of citizens, support, etc. In the end, I have one quite concrete remark. It is inadmissible for me to have any civil servant in control of the MP. This is a committee that needs to be established, which I can trust, and I want to trust. It would be more normal to be a committee made up of MPs. This is how this thing is very problematic. Each of us MPs, who is in this House, has 30,000 full-time citizens behind them. Each of us is chosen by a procedure that is fierce and nothing like that exists in the state. That's why I think that since public officials and MPs are here, it's not appropriate for any clerk to exercise control over what the MP does. If it is necessary to do so, and I believe it is, then it should be a committee made up of representatives of all parliamentary groups who are represented in parliament and then we would have a clean situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1646	The People's MP Miroslav Martic has the word, and after him, the MP of the people, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry there isn't a Minister of Lonchar here, I was just about to commend him, and I think it's generally okay for the minister who proposes certain legislative proposals to attend the debate. I saw him sitting here yesterday, and yet he's the minister, and the deputy is the deputy. The bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest is one very important law, I accept that it is one of the first laws to enter the procedure, and I also think it is a very important law and I justify that it has entered the emergency procedure. I'm glad the minister showed up. So, as I have an understanding of the emergency procedure when it comes to this law, I have no understanding of a law that was under emergency procedure, which is a law on the assistance of Hague indictees, which, by its essence and character, is disastrous for Serbia, which, as you have seen, does not support 90% of the citizens and you ultimately want that law...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1648	Go back to the subject of the People's Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1649	You DSS people need to think about the consequences of the law you've passed, and therefore SPS MPs can talk about what they didn't even dream of being able to talk about, because you made this law a concession for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1650	Go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1651	You have seen that this bill is not good and that the vast majority of citizens do not support the adoption of this law. Now you want a regulation to fix it. You want your grandmother to wear makeup before she dies. She can't survive, gentlemen, and it's better if you stop this law so that we don't fix it with some regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1652	People's MP, I warn you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1653	Okay, I'm going back to the bill. As a parliamentary group of DS, we will support this law, because it is essentially a European achievement. I'd like to ask you to turn these of yours down a little bit. It introduces some basic moral principles when it comes to officials, whether they are elected, whether they are appointed, because, in a way, it contributes to preventing corruption, to eliminate conflicts of interest, because it obliges officials to report their assets. However, it is not clear how this will be realized, but in any case, there is a good intention to prevent officials from receiving gifts, especially money. I think these are all good suggestions, when it comes to the question of this law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. However, there are many vague and bad provisions. I will say here and only list some of these proposals that this law provides and which are not fully defined, from the name of this committee, through how it is formed, then, the number of members, in which way it is proposed, how this committee is recalled. There are great misunderstandings. Then, the very essence of the law was supposed to be that he was, in a way, educational and not repressive. Basically, when you look at this law, it's primarily repressive. But since this law can hardly be applied unless you accept a large number of amendments to this law, I think it will essentially be educational and will represent a dam for many officials to violate some of the standards provided for by this law. Then, the Committee shall have the office of the Court of Justice, and in fact, it should have the function, first of all, to initiate proceedings and propose to the competent institutions certain criminal measures or measures provided for in this law, and not to establish the procedure and to assess whether there has been a breach of that procedure. Then, the issue of the province and local committees is not fully defined. What's most controversial to me and where I'm going to stay for a while is a suggestion that officials can only be members of one board of directors. I don't think that's a good solution. The DS Parliament Club has submitted an amendment to this solution. You have cases of individual officials being members of five to six boards of directors, and as someone said a dozen. I don't think that number was really there. Take it that a member of several boards of directors, very irrelevant, and on the other hand, is a member of the board of directors who is very important, the board of directors of banks, the boards of directors of information houses or important state or social enterprises, where large funds are as a compensation for membership on these boards and a great opportunity to exercise political influence through membership on these boards. Therefore, our proposal is that the official should not be a member of any board of directors. I think that's the right solution, if you want this law to make it impossible for officials to influence through the boards of directors and the functioning of these public systems, and also for the abuses that can happen in these public systems. What many MPs pointed out, which is the fee foreseen for membership in the boards of directors. The figure mentioned here is that it is about 7,000 average incomes in Serbia. It's not hard to calculate. You have about 200 boards, multiply by the number of members on those boards and multiply by seven average personal incomes, so you'll get that number. Yesterday, I listened to Mr. Lonchar's statement, which he gave after this session, and I said it wouldn't significantly burden the budget. That wasn't hard to calculate. I wish the minister here had said about what a number would be needed to function all of these committees that are scheduled. So I accept that it may be two or three average personal incomes at Serbia's level, but you'll agree, seven average personal incomes, that's an extremely large amount. You with these money can finance flag workers, who now have problems, Bora workers, who have problems, and you provide 7,000 average personal incomes in Serbia to finance these committees. After all, if this law is not good, it shows a large number of amendments that have been submitted. About 100 amendments have been submitted. The DS itself has submitted 28 amendments. I can say, on behalf of the DS, and if you don't accept any amendments that we have submitted, the DS Parliament Club will vote for this bill. They'll vote for the reason we better have this law, the way it is, and this proposal is pretty bad, rather than having any law. On the other hand, I think it's a good thing that this law is proposed, but I think you should have an understanding of the amendments that have been submitted and try to accept one part of those amendments, so that the proposal for this law is as good as possible. After all, you and some of your officials are already in conflict with this law. If you were planning to pass this law in time, then you shouldn't have proposed your officials to the boards of directors. After all, the status of Tijanic is disputed. It's not known if he's on BK TV or RTS, whether he has a conflict of interest there, but it's less important. It's much more important that a man who doesn't even have a college, who's highly ideologically scarred and who's been in JUL's position, you propose as director of the national institution - RTS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1654	On what basis do you want the word? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Branislav Ristivojevic, president of the DSS parliamentary group. Just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1655	Article 96. I'd like to point out that an esteemed colleague...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1656	Excuse me, what attitude?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1657	Article 1 I'd like to point out that an honorary colleague has injured the Rules of Procedure by not sticking to a member of the 99s who says that a speaker can only talk about a matter that's on the agenda. Three times a distinguished colleague was warned by the chairman and then eventually he confessed himself when he said, "I'm going back on the subject." I want the Administrative Committee to make a statement about this and I suggest that the most severe sanctioning of a respected colleague, for the simple reason that, with full awareness that he is violating the Rules of Procedure, speak beyond the subject, and that he has been warned three times, only then stopped, has he returned to the subject and admitted even that he has injured the Rules of Procedure. It is the highest possible degree of imagination, the direct imagination of breaking the Rules of Procedure. I'm not recommending an esteemed colleague of the Administrative Committee's mercy, I'm asking that he be severely punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1658	National MP Branislav Ristivojevic advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 96. Since his injury is, in fact, a violation of Article 99 and requires the Administrative Board to plead, I can only call upon the Administrative Board to plead. Since I have a suggestion that this will be decided in the voting day, the Parliament will decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1659	Articles 97, 99 and 100. Mr. Martic, you forgot that the SPS has not proposed a law on helping families of Hague indictees, this is what other political parties have proposed, and of course we will always support such a law in parliament. But what you said about socialists being able to say about that law and what they didn't dream of, believe me, we're just saying what we were dreaming about and it's coming true. And that is: that you leave the government, including Mr. Tadic, Svilanovic and you; we see this, that dream is coming true for us, and that is the satisfaction of Serbia and the Socialists.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1660	Please talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. On what basis do you want the word? (Alexander Vukic: It is about who is the legislator of the law on helping the families of the Hague indictees. We're all here, Mr. Wolfie, proposing this bill. (Alexander Vukic): That's exactly what I wanted to say, since Mr. Angelkovic said what was not true. Miloljub Albianic has a word, followed by the People's MP Verica Radet (not there), followed by MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1661	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will look back on yesterday. One of the MPs tried to measure people's honesty by membership in political parties. I'll tell you what, I think it's an insult to our voters and I invite them to recognize that insult. G17 plus thinks there are decent people in political parties, but also outside of them. There are many honest people outside political parties, and they are the majority in Serbia, they choose us and vote for us. Here I will discuss this bill in principle, and there will be an opportunity, as I understand it, for this quality of the text to be improved by certain amendments. The promoter is here, so he can accept certain amendments. I must tell everyone that there are amendments that serve as obstructions in this National Assembly. Therefore, there are punishable actions that are not being prosecuted in certain places in a certain environment or that have been legalized by society through prejudice, tradition, error, habit, but also through bad laws or lack of appropriate legal solutions. The word "interest" itself has a positive meaning, especially in business and banking circles, and represents participation or gain, but this is about conflict of interest, the meaning of that word that represents abuse of a function, and can be translated as a benefit. The minister of literal meaning is the highest civil servant and people in the relevant positions often use the word "civil service", which means "civil service" or "for the benefit of citizens". Unfortunately, often in previous years, we can say for decades, there have been more benefits and few services for the benefit of citizens. We can say this-- we often hear that people change when they come to power. It can be said that then they actually show their true face, what they are and what they are. This legislative proposal is about preventing abuse of the position acquired by choice, appointment and appointment. G17 plus advocates the adoption of this law. G17 plus his own actions proved to be in favour of the adoption of this law, as he presented to the public a whole series of evidence of the abuse of the position of government officials and MPs from the previous period. We are witnesses that by resorting to various reckless methods, gains that do not allow function, but abuse of that function, violates the word or what implies function, which is responsibility. The G17 plus has always advocated responsibility for all state officials, but also for us MPs. This responsibility for MEPs G17 plus, above all, consists of the fact that we have agreed and voted that MPs are not members of the boards of directors, although this legislative solution has not yet been reached. I also want to say that the Deputy Prime Minister and the G17 Plus ministers were at high positions earlier, but that function did not change them. Often in the people you can say about politicians -- they're all the same. I call on MPs to vote in favour of the law on preventing conflicts of interest and those who vote for such a proposal will certainly not be the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1662	The word has been made by MP Mika Vlaovic, a follow-up MP from the Verica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1663	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the DSS election promise has been fulfilled by the adoption of this conflict of interest law. The reporting of property is very important, and that the property is reported, as foreseen in the law, and two years after the end of the term of office, so that no one will be able to get rich at the expense of the government without being accountable to anyone. There were stories here about how much that law would cost, how much money it would take for committees. Every order and implementation of the order costs, but I think they're rebelling and demagogy is scattered by those who are accustomed to disorder, who have had a conflict of interest and perhaps some who would have had it again. It takes far less to fund the board than money has gone in conflict of interest. Whether this law will prevent conflicts of interest, they asked the same question here. That would already be a magic thing. What's it gonna be? Let's ask another question - was there any conflict of interest in the past government? I'm not a judge to judge, but I doubt it was. I know some people at the top of the Vojvodina government who made a lot of money during their three-year reign. I don't know if they made it out of pay. If they claim to have received credits and these loans were given by conflict of interest, because many of us couldn't get credit; we farmers didn't even sow crops, buy fuel, artificial fertilizer, do tractors. There's one more thing about this conflict of interest. I'm trying to doubt it, I'm not saying it was. The sugar affair, let's see how much money has gone into someone's pockets, how much the state of Serbia has lost financially, how much it has lost in reputation. Fifteen sugars in Serbia employ 5,000 people. These people are threatened by the inability to sanction and export sugar. Several tens of thousands of farmers earn a good share of their income on sugar beet production. We have brought down the country's reputation in the world, not only can we not export sugar, but other goods they would export; they will say, "Beware... (President: Theme. )......................................................................................................... You repack, you cheat. And that's the subject, and it's a conflict of interest. There's something else here. The former government minister accuses the authorities before they did. They've been in power for three years. I'm not defending that there was no conflict of interest before them, but in those three years' time, why didn't the authorities push things out? One more suspect that there was a conflict of interest. Usually, our peasants say, when there are no arguments, then the tone rises, and the minister is here, with a raised tone of speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1664	On what grounds? Replic on what basis? Replica, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, was mentioned by the previous speaker as former minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1665	First, it is nice to mention and criticise the previous government for not solving all the affairs and all the problems that existed until 2000, or until 2001, when other political parties that make up power existed before. I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, both of you who are in position today and you who are in opposition, that most of the positioning parties also in 2001 and 2002 were a republican and federal government, and that you were in very responsible positions, i.e. your representatives who could solve, among other things, the mentioned sugar affair. I'll remind you that by April of last year, in 2003, the entire external trade force, including sugar, was in charge of the Federal Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad. Therefore, by drawing criticism today for the non-resolvement of this affair, you are actually giving criticism today to your coalition partners. Please be precise when criticizing what the previous government has done and what it has not done. Of course, there are a large number of jobs, a large number of tasks that are not only present, but also the next government should do and, of course, we will be in the interest, and above all our citizens, the people, we will be very happy if a huge step is made on the economic agenda and, of course, on the basis of future prevention of corruption. I want to tell you, unlike the situation we had in 2000, when corruption was a systemic issue, because there were no key anti-corruption laws, such as the Public Procurement Act, like the Budgetary System Act, like the Tax Package, we are now in a situation to talk about corruption by name and last name, and it is, believe me, a huge difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1666	The word has the People's MP Vjerica Radet, followed by MP Milan Stanimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1667	You're in bad practice, ladies and gentlemen, and you don't need to argue with the current and you're ex, because it's obvious that your way of working is the same. This government gives us a large number of laws with two or three days to look at these laws, to prepare for debate, to make amendments. We, of course, do all of this, although it is obvious that your intention to prevent SRS MPs from affecting your legislative proposals with amendments. The draft law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the performance of notified functions is inapplicable. We warned the previous congregation majority well-intentioned not to pass the Law on Broadcasting and the Law on Lustration, claiming that they were inapplicable. They wouldn't listen to us. Now we have those two laws that can't be applied. We have warned the current assembly majority, do not bring amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs, they are inapplicable, it is impossible for such a short time to ensure the vote of our citizens who live and work abroad. You've passed the law. Now we have an election, so we have a problem, and there's a RIK problem, and Minister Lonachar, they all got caught up in a chicken house, they don't know where to go or how to conduct these choices under non-applicable law. Now we also warn you, you don't pass a law like this, this text of the law is inadmissible. If you want to pass this law, and we don't generally have anything against it, then accept Mr. Ministers of the Amendment Group of the SRS, because with these amendments this law will make sense. You told the ministers yesterday that this law is a pre-election promise from the DSS and that, of course, is a legitimate right and it is normal that when the party wins power, it meets what it promised in the election campaign. This bill will essentially not help the citizens of Serbia, this is a political, demagogue, completely imprecise law. You promised many more to the citizens of Serbia, and this is expected from the congregation's majority. The solution to life's problems. While we were here all day working on whether or not you from the congregation majority would secure the quorum, so we had to interrupt the session twice because you didn't have a quorum, last night when I was coming home, a dozen people intercepted me and asked what was going on. Over 20 items of wide-ranging goods were collected yesterday in our shops, ladies and gentlemen. Looks like the DSS and her partners in the government... (President: Theme. )......................................................................................................... They want to congratulate the Easter holidays of the citizens of Serbia in this way. The theme, ma'am, is that you don't worry, I explain it in a way that I think I should explain this bill, because the draft law by the government, as a proposing, is not properly explained. For example, it is not clear why this law was to be passed by an emergency procedure, the government's argument did not really convince us that there was a reason, and perhaps Mr. Minister will later be able to explain it to us. This law is not and will not be a way to fight corruption and organised crime. This law treats a moral issue, and morals cannot be sanctioned in this way. The committees you have provided for in this law, which will function on the principle of honor, will not be able to eliminate corruption, because corruption cannot be prevented by any unpublic but, that is not nice, nor by recommending that someone resign. The SRS parliamentary group has submitted about 40 amendments to this law, and that is normal and natural. We are the only opposition party in this House and that's our job. Something else is interesting: this law has 37 members, and MPs have tabled 31 amendments to this law. Mr. Minister, if our amendments do not tell you that your law is not good, perhaps you should at least pay attention to this number of amendments to those who voted for you. I'm going to be particularly apostrophe of a few key things about the law. It is in Article 2, when listing the public functions and the officials to which this law applies, that I must note that you have not included all those who, according to the position and opinion of the SRS, should be subject to the provisions of such a law. When it comes to committees to resolve conflicts of interest, our view is that these tasks should only be carried out by one committee at the level of the Republic, and these subcommittees or committees at the level of the province and local self-government would lead to the fact that we have different interpretations on the ground and in practice different criteria in solving the same problems. Basic rules on public function; we in the Serbian Radical Party think what is written in article 4. I guess it's only normal for a functioner to perform his duties according to the regulations governing his rights, obligations, etc. All the prohibitions that you have stated in Article 6 or actions that are prohibited by a public function official shall be criminal acts and may be regulated and applied by the Criminal Law, which means that consistent application of the Criminal Law would not force us to pass this law so quickly, perhaps incompletely and with insufficient elements. Article 13 refers to the information reported by the public function holder. The minister said yesterday it was a newspaper in our legal system. In a way, it is, but we don't think this reporting of property will stop corruption either. This is just one list of property officials, who don't commit anyone to anything, at least not the way this law predicted it. We think that every official, I guess, normally reports his assets to the IRS and that's enough to record his assets. When it comes to the register of property, you did not clearly write, or did not predict at all what would happen if the data in this register were made public. You did not, for example, predict that this would mean disbanding the committee that runs this register, which, in the opinion of the SRS parliamentary group, would be only possible and realistic. When it comes to this chapter that speaks of gifts related to performing a public function, there really are strange and even funny things here. What this means - if the functioner is not familiar with the value of the gift, he is obliged to request an account from the donor or to refuse the gift. It's just amazing. Someone's giving you a gift, and you're saying, "I'm sorry, give me the bill to see if I'm gonna take it or not." I guess he won't take it regardless of the bill. He says, if the official couldn't refuse the reception of the gift, etc.; so how can someone make someone receive a gift if he won't. I hope someone doesn't put a gun to someone's forehead and say, "You have to receive a gift." I don't understand why it's supposed to stand "he couldn't refuse." We believe in the composition of the Republic Committee, and that is what my colleagues have already said, that this is not a good solution. The SRS considers this to be the work of the Assembly and the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly. In the position of a member of the Republic Committee, it is interesting here that nowhere stands who will initiate proceedings against a member of the board. You, Minister, said yesterday that these procedures, not only for a member of the board, but also for officials, can also be conducted on the basis of an anonymous application. I don't think that's good, that it can turn into its opposite. Each of you can memorize, if he doesn't like Minister Loncar, write something that has nothing to do with the truth, you go into this process, and until proven otherwise, it's a little longer than ever. The compensation of members of the Republic's committee, I don't think it simply deserves any comment, because this has gone beyond any measure that a member of this republic's committee has a higher salary than the president of the state, and beyond the other state officials. The termination of office on the Republic Committee; you say, among other things, that a member of the Republic Committee shall be dismissed if, unwittingly or impartially, he performs this duty. I've never seen anyone prove it's unwitting and impartial. This second part, where it says if it becomes a member of a political party, we simply consider it a violation of fundamental human rights and a violation of the Constitution. Who can and should not be allowed to do any work, if he is a member of a political party. If he wasn't a political party official in this case, it would be acceptable. A procedure laying down whether there are reasons for the resolution of a member of the Republic Committee shall be initiated by the Republic Committee or by the body elected by the member to the Republic Committee. The procedure shall be conducted and the decision taken by the Republic Committee. It's not very clear on whose proposal. The service of the Republic Committee; you have foreseen here the Republic Committee, the province and committees by local self-government, obviously and possibly with a view to reducing the number of employees in municipalities around Serbia and transferring these employees to the service of these committees at the level of local self-government. It's called "supplying from hollow to empty" in our people, and there's no effect here. In Article 23, it is interesting, you say -- it is believed that by launching a procedure in which it is decided whether a member of the Republic's committee has violated this law has been denied and the procedure for its resolution. I don't know how you ignored the fact that our legal system, like all other legal systems, knows and acknowledges the presummation of innocence. The presumption of innocence was only injured by the UN tribunal and you should not have taken away their exclusiveity and provided for in this law of yours. Kind of a measure, it's a really special story: an unpublic warning; a decision published in the Official Messenger; no effect of this law in this way will be, you won't achieve the goal. I don't doubt you had any intention of that, but you'll see when it comes to application. First of all, this article 37, which is the last member of this bill, I say it's only true that this will take effect on the eighth day of the day of publication in the Official Messenger. These deadlines, live and seen, you'll ask yourself to extend those deadlines, because you won't be able to do this. In principle, in the end, I want to say that the SRS is for fighting corruption and organised crime. We claim we're the only ones capable of doing this job the right way. As far as we're concerned, we don't need this law, because neither are we, nor will we come to a conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions, but if you're in such a hurry, if you have such a need for this law, maybe we'll do it to you in the day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1668	I'm sorry, just the basis for the replica. The Democratic Party of Serbia, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1669	I'd just like to point out one perhaps important moment in the presentation of the distinguished colleague Radeta. Despite this great effort that I see she has made to review this bill, to submit a large number of amendments, to enter into an argument that follows the law, it seems to me, if you allow an esteemed colleague, that you have missed a moment after all. This law does not overlap with criminal law which, as in all other countries, also deals with crime or better to say in criminal acts. That's how I understood the remark when you said that the majority of the dispositions provided for by this law are already covered by the disposition of criminal acts in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia or in the Basic Criminal Law. But we need to understand this another way. Yes, it is true that there are a large number of criminal acts, dispositions and the penalties provided for therein that resemble these differences in this law. There's an extremely big difference. Criminal law acts after corruption or better to say, after a crime has been committed. This law should work before. So this law doesn't have to match and it doesn't even make sense for him to get a match with criminal law, or, say, infringing or infringing laws. He's complimentary with them, he's consistent. Unlike the Criminal Code, which only works when an injury is committed, when it is too late, when corruption is present in society, when a crime is committed, this law should act earlier. This law works as soon as a conflict of interest is created with a state official, and it still results in a violation of the Criminal Code. That is why such a law does not even require sanctions from the arsenal of sanctions known to the Criminal Law. On the contrary, he needs sanctions that are far more mild and that remain in the moral sphere. It is, in practice, unlike the Criminal Law which is a repression of corruption, prevention and thus complements and practically creates a complex, comprehensive body with criminal legislation, economic, criminal and criminal. In this way, it is also necessary to understand its disposition and the sanctions it provides for. Indeed, sanctions can seem a little weak at first sight, because sanctions are mostly in the moral sphere, so a non-public note, recommendations for discharge from duty, etc. However, better sanctions are not necessary. We, if we want to act before any of the officials get to corruption, before it's corrupt, only at the moment when they create a situation of interest, which is a catalyst for later corruption, then they don't need better sanctions than moral. In another way, we also need to understand this law. He needs to create a certain moral environment in our society that we have never had before. We've had some government officials, and it's an honor to them, but a large number of government officials in this country did not take power as responsibility, but as power. This is a new corpus of moral standards for those who do not have them now and who should, or should, eventually adopt them and accept them. In the end, it would have to result in a new political culture. The moment we create it, maybe this law won't be necessary, and I'd like to see it one day, that it be in our lives, that we see this society and that these standards be passed in a certain way, the morals of each and every one of us, and that's when we don't need these laws. Unfortunately, it'll be a long time. According to all the indicators and statistics, especially Transparens International, Finland is the state with the lowest level of corruption of civil servants. I wish we had that morale. Until we get it, we need these laws, like some kind of barrier and obstacles before corruption comes. So, I'm just going to end up with a principled conclusion, this law is complementary, it's in line with criminal law, unlike the law that acts on post-festum, so after there's been a crime, after someone's been corrupt, this law works before that, and when someone creates a situation that's potentially dangerous to turn into corruption. That is why it is necessary, necessary, and therefore I call on you to round up the practical legislation that serves in the fight against corruption, I call on you all to vote for this law, and it is perfectly natural and normal; I also invite you to look at all amendments together, we will find those who are good, we can do so on committees, so we will recommend them to the Assembly for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1670	The word has a folk MP Milan Stanimirovic, followed by a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. The remaining time of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group is three minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1671	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Ms. Chairman, since it is three minutes and 30 seconds, I will see that I have to make a maximum reduction in my presentation, but at the beginning I have to say that after 10 years of active engagement in the fight for a European, modern, democratic Serbia, it is very difficult for me to talk about this law after the representatives of the parliamentary group "return of the write-off", which we have been talking about here from this pay-off-by-the-system-which soldier is talking about, but the public of Serbia is more than clear that the responsibility is not only on them, but on those who have allowed rehabilitation and reincarnation of options that have destroyed two centuries of Serbian history in the last century.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1672	Please, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1673	To go back to the law; therefore, the law to prevent conflicts of interest. You have admitted here on page 14 in reason, because it stands here – and the draft laws prepared by the former Ministry of Finance and the economy of the Republic of Serbia have been analysed. Indeed, about 80% were used by the bill, which is very pragmatic by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. It is true that some international standards of OECD, World Bank, etc. have been used. What's the difference? The difference between these two draft laws is a circle of faces. In that original proposal, local self-government, judges and prosecutors were more affected, not covered by the property report, there is no mechanism for how to behave as a official if he is given legitimate private interest. The old law provided for an exemption, provided only for ministers, and another official either to inform the senior elder or the authority, which is very important. The biggest difference is not in the law regarding institutions, i.e. if it determines whether there is a conflict of interest. So the cornerstone of my criticism, since I have only two more minutes, is inconclusive, makeup, that we have this law, but that doesn't serve anything, what that actor in that series would say -- it can't hurt, and if it helps, we'll see. The widespread abuse of public functions in one society depends not on the morality of individuals, but rather on the quality and comprehensiveness of state regulation, State interference in economic movements, poverty or wealth in which one society is located and the like. Abuse and corruption, therefore, cannot be prevented by calling for morality, but not by propaganda, or rhetoric. News came in today's daily newspaper that Serbia-Montenegro is 10th in favour of corruption. So Slovenia is best quoted, Hungary or the Czech Republic, but the situation in Serbia is better than in Croatia, Poland, Slovakia or Romania. This is the result, therefore, because some laws have been passed before these, which have also dealt with this matter, and these are public procurement laws, and then on the financing of political parties, privatisation, privatisation agencies, budget laws, tax laws, tobacco laws, a unique rate of sales tax has also been adopted in a timely manner, which has also prevented largely corruption, etc. If not all instruments exist for law enforcement, the idea itself will be disabling. We are witnessing this diaspora vote. We've passed the law, we've seen that in the presidential elections, it's practically inadmissible, and that's why we don't have to rush into something to not disabling the idea itself in the worst possible way. No one disputes the need to pass laws to prevent conflicts of interest in the performance of functions, but I fear that the adoption of this law is contrary to the practice tried by the newly formed Government in numerous positions and other moves in recent weeks, where the public interest is in conflict; let's say, around Mobtel. I would like to see who gets that measure of public or non-public warning, whether Mr. Mladjan Dinkic or Mr. Velimir Ilic. I thought a lot more to say, just one more thing, why we're against being any of the officials on any board of directors of any company. For example, the chairman of the NIS Management Board, a senior JUL official, received $240,000 in due time in the name of membership in the managing board of a registered daughter in London, which had no commercial income.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1674	I'm warning you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1675	The other board members received a slightly smaller sum. This was established on 13 April 2001. So sometimes you don't need to be on multiple boards, it's enough to be in just one, so it goes very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1676	On what basis, just a little bit, according to the Rules of Procedure? The People's MP Bojan Pajtic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the advantage of telling me just which member of the Rules of Procedure; Rule 94.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1677	I ask the chairperson on the basis of Article 94 to determine the quorum and express my doubts about the electoral system, i.e. in the statement of the electronic system that there are enough MPs in this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1678	Please confirm the quorum. We're continuing our work. Replica, MP Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1679	Mr Stanimirovic, if we had fought for European Serbia the way you fight today, Serbia would be in Latin America, it would not be in Europe. Why would she be in Latin America? Your party's senior official, president of a municipality in western Serbia, has appointed his own brother as director of a social firm, and then, in the privatisation process, their sister buys the same firm. That's why a law like this is needed, Mr. Stanimirovic, and that is why Serbia must not be returned to Latin America.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1680	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic. Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Behind each of us, I have just explained, behind each of our mandates is equal to the number of voters. Someone can have five mandates, someone can have 105, one who represents 30,000 people here, with 15,000 votes reached, is the country's state sovereignty with 0.4%. There are no write-offs here, but citizens in Serbia have been written off to Mr Stanimirovic. The SPS put 300,000 votes into the National Assembly's 22-term Carnet. In the city I come from, the Democratic Party received fewer votes than the Socialist Party of Serbia, and in the Moravik district as well. As for the conflict of interest, Mr. Stanimirovic, your former fellow MP from Arangelovac in the past meeting has a private pharmacy in Arangelovac, and until his private pharmacy, his wife is the director of the state pharmacy, bordering only one wall.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1682	The basis for the replica of MP Bojan Pajtic is the mention of the Democratic Party in presenting MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1683	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I ask that we honor the work of this House. It just doesn't look like the National Assembly. Claims that someone in a city in Serbia, here, there, was doing this or that; if someone was breaking the law, let's say by name and last name. I repeat once again that no member or official of the Democratic Party has been charged with criminal charges compared to what was done in the previous three years. If he is, he should be if he broke the law. There's a difference between us and you. We don't observe criminals through party membership. If someone broke the law, they should be responsible for breaking the law. That's the dramatic difference between us and you and it doesn't matter. But you already have a chance. There are no procedures, there's nothing left, only empty phrases remain some stories about 60, 70, 150,000 affairs that absolutely do not exist and are not documented by anything. I ask you first to honor the work of this assembly, to serve the arguments in the discussions and to ask that when the dead people are mentioned behind this pay phone, and I am sorry that as an authorised representative, I was not there for the chairman to respond at least with a warning. It's the most disgusting and disgusting thing a man can do to slander a dead man. If that's not a problem for someone, and if it doesn't cause disgust, then it's his personal problem, but to say that the late Zoran Djindjic called for Serbia's bombing is a disgusting and disgusting lie, it is something that is not like those who call themselves Orthodox or Christian. So, I would ask you, the chairman, in such situations, that I don't think he should go out, whether he's in the O.R. or not, a representative of the parliamentary group to respond to such things. It's a civilization obligation by the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1684	The word has a folk MP, Snježana Stojanovic-Plasic, and after that, a National MP, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1685	I thank you for finally getting my word. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am convinced that I will speak on behalf of all MPs G17 plus when I say that we are present in this Parliament and in Serbia's political life for two basic reasons: this is our belief, above all, that we can contribute to improving the material position of Serbian citizens, and secondly that we can return at least a piece of dignity and justice to Serbia. Both of these reasons are part of this law we're talking about today, and that's why we're going to support this law. My friends in law enforcement often tell me that justice and justice are not the same. I believe them, because they know it well, but I also remain convinced that the laws are the way to justice, and that is why I am deeply convinced that this law, which we are discussing today, is one of those very significant steps, because it corrects some very significant injustices. Of course, we are aware that this law is not perfect, such as no law is perfect, but you will agree with me that the basic problem of Serbia in the previous period was not bad laws, but a lack of political will for these laws to be consistently implemented. Of course, we can fix this law together, and the G17 plus parliamentary group has also submitted some amendments that will make this law even more stringent. However, we believe that he is basically good and acceptable. It's good, among other things, because it requires people who are engaged in public functions to report their assets. We have no problem with the members of this law. We have no problem even with the possibility, and we have no fear of that possibility, that this reporting of property can become public and that at some point the citizens of Serbia can find out how much property there is before and how much after the public office has been carried out. On the contrary, we believe that this is good and our people who are in public functions have already publicly reported their assets. However, members of the parliamentary group may have one problem with that. At one point, they may find themselves ashamed of the citizens of Serbia, which, after orderly, on time and with a high average of high schools completed, after years of practice in education, health or in other areas, will have nothing to report. In this part, we share the fate of Serbian citizens and especially that of the middle class that has rapidly collapsed in previous years. Our money went out, ladies and gentlemen, and we all know in whose pockets and whose accounts he was going to. I am in my Leskovac, and you in your cities and all together at Serbia's level have had the opportunity to monitor the growth of a new class that was created in front of our eyes. These are the people who came from the margins of society, from the edge of the law, most often low-educated, often poor manners, but therefore always unspeakable and bold enough to be late to someone else's. But they're not our theme today. Our theme is those of others, people who had power, who had levers of power, who had information and who allowed others to destroy Serbian enterprises, Serbian economy, Serbian institutions and destroy the moral values we all relied on. Among other things, to make an dishonest, unfortunately, profession that we do here too and to create one confidence among Serbian citizens that people's politics are concerned with personal interest. All this was possible because the conflict of public and private interest was possible, and because people chose private interest. I'm not going to talk about individual examples, and I don't think it's necessary, but I'm going to remind you that there's been a lot of opportunities in the past. If they had reported their property to some very high officials of former authorities, not entering what power it was, there would have been no possibility, at a time when Serbia's health system collapsed, when the nation's health fell significantly by all indicators, starting from infant mortality to an increase in disease from some other diseases, that one health minister had earned and exported from this country a huge amount of money. He did so during the rule of the regime to which he himself belonged. However, during the rule of another regime, he raised the money coldly, in front of the eyes and the public of Serbia, from his account in Switzerland and took the unknown to where. Who helped him? We don't know. Also, at a time when our country was under these famous sanctions and we had no diplomatic relations with anyone, the daughter of the head of diplomacy accumulated money in one foreign account. And we were also informed about it. How was that possible and was it a conflict of interest? Not only is it a conflict of interest, but there are reasonable doubts that this is also about some crimes. But despite the fact that we have very professional judges, that we have courts, that we have these famous judicial exams, there was no political will to prove that these people have violated the law, which I truly deeply believe in. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the essence of the law that we will vote for. Of course I can stand by the remarks that this law is expensive, that its application is expensive and that perhaps the high amounts provided for the salaries of people who will work on boards are too high. That's something you can talk about. However, this remark would be much more justified that Serbia, unfortunately, with all the efforts of the previous government to make it a less corrupt country, in which corruption is at a lower level, is not still a paradox country. Of course, I am convinced, although I am not best at numbers, that the full amount of money needed for, say, the implementation of this law will be at an annual level less than 2.4 billion dinars, as in one day and only one move will be returned to the great ruler of Serbia, our benefactor, the guardian of Serbian tradition. Of course, we will do everything to prevent this law from happening. I believe that the money needed to implement this law will certainly be less than the money Serbia is damaged by the sugar affair. I believe that the money in the accounts of these men, honest, honest and professional, who are working on the implementation of this law, will be less than the money earned by some junior cabinet chiefs and some slightly older, but therefore far more experienced security advisers. So we will vote for this law for three basic reasons. First of all, we will vote because it has a financial and material effect on improving the standards of Serbian citizens. Then, we will vote because he brings justice and equality to the citizens of Serbia, which now all citizens will be able to obtain loans on equal terms, buy cars, buy apartments and no one will be privileged because some politician will give additional information or opportunities to a wealthy citizen. Finally, we will vote in favour of this law because it restores dignity to people who are engaged in public service and to people who are in public office, and hopefully this will be the reason for this business, which we are dealing with, to begin to deal with an increasing number of honest, honest people and those who have something to give to Serbia on behalf of all citizens of Serbia and our entire country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1686	The People's Messenger, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and then the People's Messenger Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1687	Legal regulations such as this proposal are needed, which will clearly and precisely define what conflict of interest is, what is personal and what is public interest. Not for the reasons that under this law, as proposed, or on the basis of amendments, which are the addition of this law, some penalties can be imposed, but for reasons that we could clear up with all that comes from this pay phone and how clearly it heard, which is with the period behind us. I would not, as a member of the SRS, limit the period to 10 or 3 years, but rather the period is more about individuals, about individuals, about their actions, for their functions, which, by doing them, have been used to gain personal benefit and to harm Serbia and Serbia's citizens. What's odd to me at least, is that the only sanction or measure that's being expressed here is moral -- political responsibility. You know, we're all aware, no matter what party or foreigners we belong to, or which policy we advocate, we're aware that we live in a time when, whether we want it or not, we have to admit, the crisis had to. How else do we interpret some of the performances of our colleagues who come out here criticising the previous government, individuals who represented that authority, who themselves were participants in that government, as experts, as they would say, "experts". That fact itself and that performance raises the question of who we should think about and give an answer to what is moral. Perhaps it would be most necessary not to speak at all that way. You can't take, gentlemen, as a rubber to erase a three-year period, where as an expert group, you've contributed a lot or been the main bearers of this whole crisis. (President: Please return to the agenda topic. That's an ethical question, the chairman. Please, this is a broad term, to give some examples. The most appropriate examples, as opposition SRS MP, are examples from the current government. In order not to stray from the subject, I'm clearly explaining this to you, although there's no need, I think you're high enough and you have enough experience, and that is, after all, continuity with previous authority. That part, over a period of years and a few months, and it was unique to you, and I don't see why you're bringing me back on the subject. But, okay. What should in some ways have been defined in this law, it is clear and loud to say what these abuses are when it comes to relation. If nothing else, then we who live in Serbia have a language that is also rich, clear and precise in defining family ties. If in all of this, where we say "in direct and lateral lines", we don't see the godfather's connection, then at the very least, it's suspicious why it comes out with a member of the law, in which the relationship, in some way, could be said that in Serbia it's more significant than a family relationship, she didn't put it as a sideline relation. We're not blind to not seeing that in the previous period of godfather's relationship, the godfather's relations ruled Serbia, are we? We're not thinking that even in the next period, the best men will not rule again, are we? Which sphere of interest they will be, we can say that in advance. It used to be quite an attractive product, profitable, it's sugar, and in the next period, without any evil intent, I'm just warning, they can be, say, capital investments. (President: National MP, please return to the agenda topic. You don't have to beg me. Because of your appearance, I can also ignore your advance, or failure to do so in the direction of the congregation. You don't have to warn me, you don't need to, especially not beg me. What the legislator says is that control of possible abuses of functions will do so-called. The committees, if we go over the fact that there will be one committee at the level of the Republic where, I suggest, the proposing or the proposing representative accepts the amendment suggestions, that some other institutions propose these members of the Committee, we Serbian radicals insist that members of that committee be MPs, and that is the most just, fairest distribution, to be one MP from each parliamentary group. Why question the messengers whom the people trusted? If one representative is from each parliamentary group, then we rule out the possibility that an MP group or some political party has a monopoly in advance. In this way, we remove the media suspicions that the most unfair people in this Serbia are those who deal with politics, those who are politically committed. This has been set up for us, as one part wants a media solution, a solution to corruption and bribes. If there are no concrete definitions, concrete answers, if we don't have one authority that will have real power and power, and that's this Parliament, because I don't see who else could, then in advance to say -- you know, we've passed this law, or we've proposed, for a media or pre-election campaign, but that law, essentially, will not be possible to apply, or will not produce any consequences. Then we must be prepared to accept and face all these consequences. Imagine a board at the country level. If the republican level is one of the proposing board members of the Serbian Academy of Sciences, how will you prevent the current autonomial leadership in the Vojvodina Assembly, to which most of them are given by the DS, from proposing to them by the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences, who is the surrogate of one crazy policy. Who are these members who are going to be proposed by such a quasi-academia to control? Let's not go to the local level. You can't say - this law will apply after the newly held elections. This law will apply eight days after the adoption or publication of the Official Messenger. These boards need to form, to function. Whom shall the committees at the province level punish or warn, when we who live in Vojvodina, who are the political representatives of citizens living in Vojvodina, are tormented to those who are now in power, with the help of some artificial majority, to know that they are no longer accepted by the people, that they lead the circuit assembly. They're in every crime, every criminal affair. Now, if by analogy or logic of things, you take a proposal from the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences, how are we going to make a precedent tomorrow? We'll, in a way, confirm, establish the Duke's Academy of Sciences. Don't, we have to be careful, we have to be careful. No one rushes you. It could be one commission on a republican level, and the rest of them can wait. Finally, for corruption, bribery, crime, abuse of functions, there are official authorities called the judicial authorities. They're here, so they're investigating organs. Don't let us go to the hands of those who have recently been working to disperse Serbia, to form a new state within the Serbian state. It's not a big effort for you. You've given up, reminders, on the concept of your basic programme definition, the regionalisation of Serbia, so I hope it's not a problem for you to change this with the amendment. I hope you'll accept many amendments to the SRS? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1688	MP Branislav Ristivojevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1689	I would just briefly refer to the presentation of the esteemed colleague, Mr Mircic, and point out one inconsistencies. You are absolutely right, dear colleague, there is indeed a possibility that even a spiritual relationship may be one of the basics for two persons to be connected, within the meaning of this law. However, why is this not explicitly mentioned in the text of the law? For one simple reason. Our law on marriage and family relations knows a number of different kinds of kinships, but spiritual kinship, because it is informal, not legal character, does not mention and cannot mention it. It mentions the Tassian kinship, the kinship of adoption, the blood kinship, but there is no spiritual one, the one you speak of, the godfather's kinship. The bill also contains other persons who, under other circumstances, can be connected. So, those faces you're talking about, which I really don't doubt led to the destruction of this country, the various godfathers and godparents, they're ruining it day and day. They should come under the influence of this law and of many other law in the area of criminal law, and we absolutely agree, or agree. I just want to point out, it's impossible to enter the concept of godfather, no matter how distasteful he is in our language and no matter how precise he is, because our marriage legislation and ordinary relations don't know him. For this reason, we had to propose that provision on other circumstances that indicate related persons. There's just one more thing I'd like to ask you, if you could continue to refrain from commenting on the "excessive appearance" of anyone in this assembly, and not just the one who holds the presidency, it's inappropriate. What would it look like if every MP went out for this pay phone and pointed to someone else's appearance. Don't look at me so strangely, you've commented on the outside appearance of the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1690	The basis for the replica - wrong interpretation. Here you are, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1691	Dear young fellow, I thank you for this explanation and clarification of my remarks in the first part of your presentation; as a lawyer, as a young assistant, in any case you are one part right. Never again take it as your right to warn us, Serbian radicals, when we speak to the ladies. You'd better turn around inside your coalition ruling band and teach them how to tell a woman from a man. From earlier on, in any case, I'm impressed by the appearance of your colleague and the person who currently holds the presidency. You don't have to warn me, in the best sense, and I've shown it honestly before, and now I've used the cameras to make it public. So you misunderstood.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1692	You don't have to compete. I don't need to understand, in any way, the exposure to me. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1693	I also want to respond to this exposure, especially now confirmed, by ex post exposure of my colleagues. So respect for the National Assembly implies that we address one another with due respect. The appearance or sexual proclivity of any of us cannot be the subject of considering this congregation, especially the appearance of the vice president of the National Assembly. I'm asking the Administrative Board to make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1694	The National Assembly will declare this in voting day. The word has a proposaler's representative, State Administration and Local Self-Government Minister, Mr Zoran Loncar. I'm sorry you're just getting your word right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to address you on the basis of this discussion in the work of the Assembly so far and to begin by thanking you for the many very high-quality suggestions that I have had the opportunity to hear in your objections to this law. Also, I have to apologize to that large part of the Assembly, which, in response to certain objections made here today, I will have to repeat the same answers that I gave you yesterday in my closing statement at the end of yesterday's session, for the simple reason that those MPs, who asked those questions again and who got the answer yesterday, simply did not have the opportunity to hear, because for this speaker, the declarative position for this law failed to prove their presence until the end of this session. One of the remarks was at the level of the salaries provided for the members of the board. The government of the Republic of Serbia, proposing this kind of salary for the board members to implement the law on preventing conflicts of interest, and in this way she wanted to express her relationship with these people who would implement this very important law for Serbia and for all of our citizens, who are filling the budget, and he, in conflict of interest, is being empty in an unauthorized way. Therefore, we didn't think for a moment to underestimate you as MPs, and I really agree that your salaries are not great, but your salaries are in the jurisdiction of the Assembly and the Administrative Committee, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed today, most of the debate was about the existence of an intes conflict before October 5th and after October 5th. The government of the Republic of Serbia was aware of the fact that the conflict of interest existed before and after October 5th, but by proposing this law we want to prevent the existence of a conflict of interest from the moment this government was formed. What was before and after October 5th cannot resolve this law that the government is proposing today, but should be resolved by the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the government is concerned, it will do everything possible to do so, which means it will create conditions for the independent functioning of the judiciary and will not put political pressure on anyone to be persecuted and someone amnested by responsibility for their own behaviour before and after 5 October 2000. In that sense, yesterday the government adopted proposals on amendments to the set of judicial laws and referred you to adoption. You will have the opportunity, probably at the next session of the Assembly, to contribute to the legal sanctioning of this kind of behavior. One of the objections was that this law was good, but that the MPs should be excluded, so any one of us who came to the state office on any basis should fall under this law. The law is good when applied to others, but it's not good when applied to us. The conflict of interest can arise when it is made up of both members of the government and those government officials appointed and appointed by the government, and so can you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who are elected by the citizens. Proposing a solution that the committee determines the existence of conflicts of interest and in the case of MPs, the government had no intention of putting the committee above the MP. No one in this country is above the MP except the President of the Republic, who is also directly elected by all citizens, but with a much larger majority than you as individual MPs. It must therefore be concluded that the committee implementing this law cannot resolve the MP. What most this committee can determine is that in the case of a MP with whom there would be a conflict of interest, it also finds out publicly. That's not a solution. The question of moral responsibility of MPs is raised. I believe that, in all of you, there exists in the right sense of the word and that probably no MP who votes for this law will deafen to a publicly announced decision that he has violated this law by his own conduct. If he does, then the decision has a fact on those people, those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who entrusted him with the mandate to represent them here in the Serbian Parliament. As for the appeal of the urgency of the procedure, I had the opportunity to tell you yesterday, unfortunately, it wasn't the ones who brought it out today, so I repeat once again: by proposing this law by emergency procedure, the government did not want to prevent the MPs from submitting amendments. There were 101 amendments yesterday, and today we have 70 amendments. Most of the amendments, which makes for a special value of this law, which you will see when it is adopted, stems from representatives of opposition parties in the Serbian Parliament. Could the Serbian government, proposing under the ordinary procedure of this law, have been able to disobey its promise made here to you all when voting on the election of a new government. This is the first law from the government's exposé, the system law, a completely new one, proposed by the government to the Serbian Parliament. This government does not want to do what the previous government did: not to pass this law or to pass it at the end of its own term, and to commit some other officials to it. That's the reason for the urgency, not to prevent you from submitting to the amendments. Yesterday when I saw the first amendments, I expressed my satisfaction with their quality and willingness that all those who fit into the concept of conflict of interest laws be respected, regardless of which political parties, ruling or opposition, they come from. When we move on to the second part of the debate, in principle, you will have the opportunity to see for yourself and vote on the law's text, you should not do to the government in the day of voting, but to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. To bring together a law that will prevent us all from ever again performing a function at the expense of public interest, and for the benefit of our own private interests. There have been observations here and some things that are not the subject of today's agenda. I'm not going to answer, but I can't help but think about the fact that they're picking up prices outside of the store. It's that prices can't accumulate, prices can rise and decrease, but it's a matter of market economy what kind of price developments will be. The government of the Republic of Serbia in its exposé received our majority support just in favour of the market economy. Maybe it's someone who fits the administrative economy of past times, which, unfortunately, led us to the situation we are in. The sanctions are of a moral nature, and yesterday I had a chance to answer you. Of course they're moral. Is it one of the state officials who should fall under this law that starts with us as members of the government and all those we are and who in the coming days and weeks will be appointed and appointed immoral? Are you immoral? I don't think so. I think it's quite enough, as every international document in this area provides, as in every country in this kind of law, that the committee in charge of implementing this law is merely a public finding that a state official has violated the provisions of this law. For the government of the Republic of Serbia, this is quite enough signal and clear because of its relationship with this committee in the future, that it will be initiating a procedure at the moment to resolve the appointed official. As you ladies and gentlemen, the elected officials of the Republic of Serbia will behave, that is your business, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be able to learn from an independent expert, hopefully an impartial committee, whether in their opinion one of you has violated the provisions of this law or not. They'll know it later in the election and they'll be worth it. That's what this law is all about. Godfathers, of course there are godfathers, so don't use this pay phone for cheap political points. We know that in a conflict of interest you can find a functioner, when you're doing business with all these related persons, relatives of blood or Tasby, which are foreseen by law, but also with godfathers, and not only with them, as well as with various public and secret friends both in the country and abroad. Therefore, no longer to abuse this pay phone for cheap political points, it is just enough for me to read you the provision of Article 4. Proposal for a conflict of interest law. When it talks about related persons, after all those relatives, it says the following -- "as well as any other legal or physical person, which, according to other grounds and circumstances, can be considered to be interested in the functionor". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1696	On the basis of Article 94(2), I'm setting a break. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: By the Rules of Procedure. After the break you will be given a word by the Rules of Procedure. I'm setting a break of 14.45 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1697	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our search in principle. We have 110 registered deputies. Please at first determine the quorum. I ask the Members to insert their parliamentary cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. Since we have a quorum to work with, Mr. Mika Vlaović has the word, and let him prepare, please, I apologize, the word has Goran Jaksic, and let Mr. Stefan Zankov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1698	Dear People's MPs, the respected presidency, from previously expressed views of previous speakers, can conclude that there is a good consensus on the need to introduce such a law. If we looked a little bit more closely and analyzed the discussions in particular, it might happen that we will not all share the same view that this law is necessary, and that it should be passed on the basis of this proposal. Of course, the resolution will be seen on the very day of the vote. Political practice of a newer political history and the functioning of public life in Serbia has shown that such a law is necessary. Unfortunately, for the past three years, they have shown us unequivocally that such a law should have long ago become part of a set of laws that will determine modern, parliamentary and democratic, as well as the public life of Serbia. The law, with its basic function, was proposed and designed much earlier. Unfortunately, the democratic power since 2000 or 2001 has long extended the adoption of such a law. What happened about six months ago, during the summer of 2003 may have been, I don't want it to be really true, but it has proved that the vote of this law was somewhat earlier, because what unfortunately happened to people who were in the state administration, what characterized them at the end of their work and functions, at least one part of them, is that they did not withstand the pressure of certain temptations, what perhaps, among other things, the most G17 plus found in the joyous officials, civil servants, did not necessarily serve the honor. It is just another indication that we cannot rely solely on the conscience and morals of people, that we must have legislation, ultimately and in other countries, not only of our environment but of developed parliamentaryism, give the right to have such a law needed. There was an attitude, I think, behind this pay phone, if I was careful, and I did, that this law might not be necessary if we had people who are highly moral, people who hold on to themselves, to the principle, people who will be in power just for the benefit of the people and the state. Unfortunately, we live in a real environment, live in a real and real state of Serbia, where in public life and at various levels it operates and works very large numbers of officials. It is very difficult to rely only on the standard of morality, yet we are all living people, some of us can bow down, come into a situation where they don't just put their function in the service of the benefit of the people and of the state, and that's where this should be regulated by law. Morales, of course, should be one of the basic categories that determines whether anyone will be a public servant, but we must also have a way of protecting public and public interest from abuse. Also, there have been objections that this law may not even have to be introduced if a very clear and very safe enforcement of Criminal Law or other laws, or if the prosecution and the judiciary in this country function in the way that it is determined by law and that the judicial authorities and prosecutors are expected to function. This is only partially acceptable. However, this law prejudges practically preventive protection against certain misdemeanors, which is the basic meaning of such a law. It covers the part that can result from the abuse of the official position, or function in which the function is located. Something is scheduled to be sanctioned by criminal or some other laws, but a number of those actions prohibited by these laws are not sanctioned and there are no sanctions provided for under the Criminal Code. As I said earlier, the very essence is to protect against the doing of a national harmful action from which a functioner can have certain privileges, i.e. connected persons in its environment. If we had a law like this then we wouldn't have a situation now, even though we've found it publicly, that people who from the last term of power, even though they've practically proven to abuse their functions, don't have any sanctions for now and simply, those funds that are alienated from the state and the citizens can't be returned. This is exactly the law that needs to be done, means to protect the property of the state from being alienated in some way and that we cannot prevent abuse. There is, of course, a flaw in this law. Every new law has it and improved laws contain imperfections. In particular, attention should be paid to the implementation of that part of the law relating to the arrangement of the establishment of the circuit and municipal committees on the resolution of conflicts of interest. Because we have a situation where the same body, or congregation, which, most often, appoints or chooses certain officials, is now doing the same when it comes to the composition of the committee. Of course, there we must rely on the conscience of local authorities, i.e. regional authorities, provinces and local parliaments, that, in accordance with their mandate, their moral codes in selecting and forming rural and municipal committees will bear in mind that these should be people who will be truly safe and responsible control of the work of officials in accordance with this law, which I hope we will adopt. Of course, if this isn't a practice, we'll have a chance to figure it out very quickly. We will receive remarks and there will be an opportunity for this or some other assembly to make changes to such a law, precisely in terms of improvement. Just another suggestion, i.e. a finding; it was an objection that the vertical organisation of the ministries, as it is now arranged in this mandate, could be a particular motivation or a certain chance to commit abuse of functions and to have officials accomplish some interests that are not in their job description and which would not serve them honorably. This is not an unusual practice of the ministry in developed parliamentary systems. In most countries, they have exactly that kind of arrangement. The minister has a practically incoherent right to determine his associates and that is nothing new. This does not have to prejudge that abuse of functions will occur when the ministry is organised in such a way. After all, there's another good reason to just pass one of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1699	The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov, and let the MP Dr Velimir Simonovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is in principle a law that would deal with the issue of conflict of interest. However, this bill on preventing conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions is just another one in a series of pointless proposals from the aspect of its implementation with which the government or the assembly majority go before the National Assembly. This law, if adopted, will remain a dead letter on paper, will have no effect in practice. We told you the same thing when you adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, where you envisioned the vote of our citizens abroad. We were saying you wouldn't be able to enforce that law in practice. You, of course, didn't listen to it, you passed such a law, and now that the first election has taken place, you say there are no technical conditions, you're trying to find some compromise solutions that won't be good. It's the same case with the Court Order Act. Instead of passing a law on the suspension of the law on the regulation of courts, so as not to admit your mistake, you go with a law that only postpones the law on the regulation of courts. I know I'm speaking to you needlessly now, you're not listening to me, and you're not listening to the voice of the Serbian citizens, but I'm going to make a few basic remarks that I have on this bill. This law reminds me of the so-called. The lustration law, because it can be misused in some way and in the responsibility of politically inadequate officials. Also, the Lustration Commission reminds me of this republican committee of yours to resolve conflicts of interest, not only that, but all 200 committees that will be formed in this way, including the provincial and local committees. Furthermore, you say all these committees will be independent and independent, you just didn't say from who, if we know these committees are funded from the budget. From whom will they be independent and independent? So, this bill is full of nonsense, inaccuracy, full of phrases, and there's nothing concrete about it, and especially in a proposal for measures that would sanction conflict of interest wherever it appears. Every sentence in this law is meaningless and ambiguous, so you say it will be like this if it isn't, or something can't if it doesn't apply. To all these committees, republican, province and local, it will take a lot of time to just interpret the text of the law. All is practically left to evaluate these commissions in which, according to the minister, they will be persons of exceptional moral quality. I can't believe this if I know that one of the motions of these board members is going to be so-called. Fantomist organization - Vojvodina Academy of Science and Art. On this occasion, I want to criticize the basics of the law. First, in Article 3 I don't understand why you form this number of committees, republican, province and local; it could only work one committee on this matter. In Article 4, you say who are connected faces and I really don't know what this definition is, because in the end you say -- any other legal or physical person who, by other grounds and circumstances, can reasonably be considered to be interested in the functionator. Also in Article 12, it is not clear which people are referring to in the submission of the property report. Practically, the law was not defined, or the text of the law did not specify and you go too wide in that circle of connected faces. In Article 16, when receiving gifts, you say - the connected person must not receive a gift in connection with the performance of the public function of the function with which it is connected. Who will be able to determine and determine, in principle. Then you say - the official can prove that he couldn't influence the behavior of a connected person if that gift was received or that the gift was not related to the performance of his public function. Why is this even standing? Why can't you in principle, so you have to specify that the functioner can prove it. So that's pointless. In Article 17 - "a functioner offered or promised a gift that cannot be accepted, he is obliged to offer, etc. and to submit a written report as soon as possible on the event to the authority which has appointed it or appointed it public office. The official who has been elected to the public office shall submit the report to the committee responsible. "This is pointless. What if he doesn't report someone trying to give him a present? It doesn't predict this text of the law anywhere. What if he doesn't file a report? Article 19 of the Republic Committee raises the basic question of how you have come to such proposings, i.e. a body that will choose a number of members: the Serbian Bar Association or the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Why didn't you put in the Serbian Orthodox Church or some NGOs you're working well with, with whom you worked during the previous period. Article 20 states: "A member of the Republic Committee cannot be a member of the political party". I ask you, why can't he be a member of a political party? What do you mean by that, and then what is your opinion of the members of the political parties? If we know that a member of the Republic Committee is elected by the National Assembly, then why didn't you foresee direct elections for the members of these committees, so the citizens choose them in direct elections? It is not clear in the same article why you have provided for such a high monthly fee for members of the Republic's board, in the amount of seven average monthly earnings. Why isn't it six, why isn't it eight? This is how you degrade all state officials, top state officials: both the president of the National Assembly, and the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. Why would members of the Republic Committee have this great monthly compensation? In Article 21, you have one moral-political provision, which says: "A member of the Republic Committee shall be authorised if he, unwittingly or impartially, performs his duties as a member of the Republic Committee". That reminds me of some past times that many of you have come to the party of the legislator of this law. What's most interesting and what's supposed to be the essence of passing one of these laws is the proposed measures that are so inconclusive that they won't have any effect, practically, in practice. It says: "a functioner who is appointed or appointed to a public office can be given the measure of non-public warning and the measure of public publication of a recommendation for resolution"; or "a functioner who has been elected to a public office directly from citizens may be given the measure of non-public warning and the measure of public publication of a decision on a violation of the law"; and, "a functioner chosen by an organ directly elected by the public, instead of the measure of public publication of a decision on the violation of the law - the measure of public publication of the recommendation to resign". With these proposed measures, you will not scare any of the officials, especially if there is a congregation majority behind it. So much for some objections, seeing as you're not very interested in it. You've simply become a voting machine, what you've criticized the previous assembly committees for. With these legal solutions, there is nothing concrete you can solve in this area that is covered by the bill. You'd better try to deal with corruption, in accordance with existing legal solutions, with criminal law, with abuse of official position. You have the court, the police, the prosecution, it's all under your control now, and you're now forming a committee with some unserious measures and you're hoping that it will help you combat such dangerous phenomena for every society. In the end, I think this law serves you only for propaganda purposes, and citizens will not benefit from it, but only unnecessary budget costs, although I see that in the proposals of the law, which are further on the agenda, you go by increasing excise duties, taxes on use, holding and carrying goods, registration of vehicles, weapons. You probably think that's where you pay for these phantom commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1701	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Velimir Simonovic, and let the MP Alexander Vukic be prepared. At the same time, I'm asking the MPs, I'm going to have to appeal to Article 99 and Article 100. Rules of Procedure, in case of distraction and insult of the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1702	I didn't mean to talk about this law at all, in some general lines about corruption and the need for law, etc. I just wanted to give the minister a few suggestions that he could adopt and fix the government amendments to this law, where I think it needs to be fixed. Since the minister isn't here, there's no point in me talking about it. I ask Mr. President, if the minister comes while the debate takes place in principle, he will give me his word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1703	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic (not here). The messenger of the people is Sredoiah Michael; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Natasha Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1704	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I also began to fight for democratic change in this country 14 years ago. Of course, at the time I was a great romantic, I believed that we would be high morals, just the ones we attack and point to what they were doing, that we wouldn't need a law like this, that we would solve it ourselves and we wouldn't need it. But it happened that when we came, those of us who advocated it, we kind of forgot it, looking at these and those who did it with a lot of knowledge, with a lot of art. Then we realized that we had those in our ranks, i.e. At least a few of us realized that we need this law and that we are Europe and, if we want to go to Europe, we have to pass some similar European law. Of course, I totally agree with some speakers who said there was theft and corruption. It has really been so far and I'm glad that the first law by which not everyone is equal, a law where some are a little more equal than others, that they will be limited in some of their possibilities for abuse. Unfortunately, he had to be brought. As some people feel, there is no need for criminal law and will never be wrong about the law, and if there were no laws, we could say that we are all thieves. This is how you know who's wrong and who's being punished, that one gets branded. That's right here. I think this law will contribute to the protection of those who were high moral, who were no longer members of the board of directors, who did not abuse their position, who did not deal with some, who did not come to some privileges and who only wanted to be MPs. Of course, gentlemen, that those predecessors have done the most evil to this country, of course they have devalued this institution, of course they have devalued both the MP and the functionary institution and, in general, the government institution. No one in the country in Serbia believed that there was someone close to a government or that they were able to be a government without taking anything. It was very difficult, they put us all in the same basket and talked about us like we were all doing it. This law will, in some ways, protect those who do not think of it, and those who have a high standard of morality and who are not those types of jobs are close. Of course he's not ideal. I think we need to fix it with these amendments. I'm talking about the law in general. I don't want to talk about it individually. I may have some objections, but I don't think they're essential, they don't matter. It is important that this law exists, it is important that our young people who come to this Parliament know that they will be sanctioned, know that they will not be able to behave without control, that there will still be some norms and that it will be under transparent or, let me say, a awake public eye. I don't think anyone should be ashamed of their assets he's acquired, if he's acquired legally, no matter how small he is, whether he's small or large, there's no reason not to say what he's got and if he has to say how he got it. It means that we have brought down that myth about some good MPs, some good officials, some good government. We've all come to the point of humiliating it, that we've broken it down, now we've got the treatment of this disease and the general consciousness of our people, which we have to come to. One more thing I'd like to say, some speakers mentioned the continuity of the G17 plus party with the predecessors. First, let me remind you, our leaders and a good portion of the MPs were the first to start and point out these irregularities, the first to begin to point out to the Serbian public that this was not good. Those who managed this parliament have shown, there have been good laws, but there have been also bad officials, bad relations, many MPs who have had many boards of directors. To all that this law now provides, we have pointed to all of this. That's exactly what we wanted to break up with, not to name everyone now, they're very well known to you. After all, that's what happened, if we were sitting here right now, if that was how the previous council worked, because if it wasn't for us, it would still be good for Serbia and we wouldn't have seen this law yet. I believe that this law, in addition to what will prevent an outflow of capital, unfair wealth, should restore dignity to this temptation, to new MPs who come to let them not think, i.e. to tell them in advance that it will not be, to know what awaits them, and to those who have never thought of it, that they will be placed there where it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1705	The word is made by Miss Natasa Jovanovic, and let the MP Milos Aligrudic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1706	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the main goal of the campaign and rhetoric we could hear from the DSS leader, who managed to make such a coalition government, and the leader of the G17 Plus Group in a pre-election campaign in November and December, was to promote and announce the adoption of such a law and a new solution to the Serbian Constitution. The writing of the constitution cannot continue, although the SRS parliamentary group has agreed to participate in the work of the commission, because of your unprincipledness shown at the first step and because the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Kostunica, even though it promised to all of us, ten days ago did not create any framework for the political solution to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Before you even begin to discuss this law and this agenda, you should refer to the fact that the agenda has been called up, and that in the meantime some very important things have happened. Those MPs who don't want anything to know, or want to know, or just want to get out of the bench, as individual ladies or missus at this point -- the topic, the topic -- should know that because of this attitude of the Republic government, above all, the worse situation in Kosovo and Metohija has taken place since the moment, and you know that this happened in the previous days, when the Criminal Law pointed out by Holkeri, or by recognising such a move by the Cypriot government, came into effect. You'd better think about what this will have to do with further life for our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija. As far as this law is concerned and the way it is conceived, we have great objections. Although we only got it two days before this session, we have succeeded, up-to-date and active as we have always been, now in this largest composition, which will be even bigger, to write over 40 amendments. These are indeed fundamental amendments, which neither alleged legal experts from your parliamentary groups can have any more serious objections, only they can say that politically disagree. The basic question I need to ask Minister Loncaru, who left after the afternoon session, is, how much does this law cost? That's what I'm asking you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, because one frame bill comes up with a figure of how much it's going to cost taxpayers. If you said it would be, what are we against, municipal, circuit offices, all the way to the republican committee, which will investigate, or see what public officials are who abuse their functions, then you had to consider how much it would cost. We already have a voted budget, completely unfulfilled, of 330 billion. We have a law, uh, on which we have submitted amendments and which, as fellow Serbian radicals have claimed, cannot be applicable, for the simple reason that much of what you've adopted is, above all, I think of you from the DSS and in the last session, and when you were in a coalition with the rest of the DOS, inapplicable. And as you know, it is inapplicable for your attempt to organise a diaspora vote for the presidential election, which will take place on June 13th, which we have been saying to you, as we are telling you, and now for this law, a little less than a month ago. I would also like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Central Country Administration of the SRS has unanimously decided that the candidate in Serbia's presidential election should be Mr Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS. It is my obligation, as MP, with the expectation of his even more convincing victory, even though the chairman of the assembly said that we cannot use the assembly speaker to promote candidates. You can see we can. I'm gonna take every chance, 'cause that's what I'm doing right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1707	Ms. Jovanovic, of course you can, and it is up to me to remind you to stick to the subject and remind all of you that the presidential candidates are not gathering here. I've checked, the MPs are sitting here talking about the laws. Presidential candidates are gathering, we're going to ask the service, I mean somewhere on Stardust. I'll let you know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1708	Yes, Mr. Markovic, but the elected president is going across the street. An MP gathering here is about to cross the street, Mr. Nikolic is going to go to Andric's wedding. As far as this law is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that our key and essential regret is that this law does not prevent and sanction the conflict of the interests of officials, as we specifically cited, public officials, to correct your law, and ministers and MPs, which they have with the people, or citizens of Serbia. That's what the people will do in the election. We think that this, among other things, will happen because the trombone and the slowness that this parliamentary majority is working and the entire government of the Republic of Serbia is causing us to constantly enter into some vicious circle, that we have laws on the agenda to vote on by such a majority, and they will not be variable. Where you will more conflict of interest than the current situation and image of Serbia. This is primarily a question for you from the ruling group, when you have two MPs, public officials, such as Goran Svilanovic and Boris Tadic, who are in conflict with the interests of the state and the people and the people's will, because they remain in the positions they are in, are doing very unquality, disastrously their functions and are all being paid by taxpayers. Now I'm going back to what this law costs. So 200 offices, 9 board members, we disagree with the composition of the board, we disagree that there are every municipality, that there is a province and that there is one at the level of the Republic. Seven average salaries in Serbia put that number in the 200 offices, so times 12 months, we reach a figure of 1.500,000 dinars from the taxpayers' budget, which these days, you who did not want to vote to help prisoners in the anti-Serb UN tribunal, sent messages that it was expensive. This law cannot essentially, apart from these measures that mean nothing, sanction in the right sense the words of one who is dishonest, who is immoral, who in any way prescribed here abuses his public function, but will cost the citizens a billion and 500 million dinars. On the other hand, we have precisely established the functioning of public officials and we have had to taxfully list who all public officials are, this is the amendment to Article 3, and what we will talk about in particular. As for Article 6, it is really unclear what the extent to which the infringement is and why you did not specify at point 7 that a public official must be sanctioned and given this measure, if you are already predicting such measures, if it restricts public access to knowledge and information that is of public interest and not subject to state or military secrecy. If one MP is sitting in these parliamentary benches, if he is still an illegal defence minister, because you are unable to replace him in the National Assembly, then he had to have knowledge and, through the media, a more aggressive campaign against Cypriot terrorists, warns Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija what they are up to. So you should have made that a little bit more specific in such cases under point 7 of Article 6. As for the warning measure and as for the functioning of the judicial authorities and the prosecution, I'll tell you this is all a farce, for the simple reason that there are numerous examples. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't know yet, and your Minister Stojkovic, whether there will be a special court or not. The day before yesterday, he thought he would, and yesterday he doesn't know, and today he might think he won't. And the special prosecutor, Mr. Jovan Prijic, who should be referring to all those cases being prosecuted before your special court, for which you also voted in that former coalition, was the deputy of the republican public prosecutor three years ago, when he was given documentation on several hundred pages of a major affair that occurred, which actually covers many public officials who were at the time acting as ministers, assistants and deputies, and some were MPs and so on. It's about the Mercedes Benz affair. Mr. Jovan Prijic did not just do anything, although he signed three years ago, and it seems to me that it was December, that he took note that there was information that all there were listed, by name and last name, persons abused their public function, he did nothing, and that you then expect that through these measures, which I repeat, farce in the right sense of words, someone would be sanctioned. Finally, let me give you one piece of advice, to you slow and three-way coalition and government, which is what it is, in a situation where you want to enforce this law -- and it will not, as I say, be implemented -- if a projection is made, it takes a billion and 500 million dinars to be implemented. You'd better deal with Serbia's economic and social image today. You'd better face it next week, after Easter, with such moves that the new finance minister, the former governor, and now the fist of Kostunica's government, is going to make it not only these 20 items that Mrs. Radeta has, by chance, heard that they've collected, but hundreds of products, and that it's even more difficult for the social and economic position of citizens. I am sorry that it is not Minister Loncar here, not because it is pleasant to listen to him and what he truly convincingly promotes this inconclusive law, but to tell him that it is not demagogy that we are talking about godfatherly relationships and that it is not demagogy that he tried to direct today as an objection to SRS MPs, but just like this gathering on the edge of the quorum, again with your internal blackmails and fighting, the cost of the state and the taxpayers for this law. Citizens will not be the ones who are dishonest and immoral, and who, on no basis, if the people ask themselves, and you put them on your lists, in the government and in ministerial posts, could not be able to perform a public function, and they were certainly never for these 14 years Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1709	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Prophetovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1710	Miss Jovanovic, if you'd listened to something, you wouldn't have spoken like this. As I understand it, Minister Loncar's question of the salary of future members of the Republic's committee to be established will be regulated through the acceptance of the amendment. They won't be as big as they are. And let me tell you, democracy is a slow process, it is a procedure. Maybe it was going faster in your time, and as it went faster, Mr. Zoran Angelkovic explained to us in yesterday's statement to "Nation", when he said, "We, while we were in power, didn't have a problem with the slowness. Seven days before the meeting, I'll call Seselj, I'll take him to the shampoo, and we'll make a nice deal on what they'll vote for. "
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1711	Miss Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and you are neither a deputy, but you can speak as an MP. Here you go. In the meantime, once again, I ask all MPs, there is no reason to speak outside the subject, and especially at this session, which has so many of these topics that concern very economic issues. I understand from everything you've been saying, and you take care of it, we're obliged to the citizens of Serbia, it costs the most if we waste time past the talk on the subject. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1712	Mr. Chairman, just to remind you that the Constitutional Court has decided that any MP can report to the Rules of Procedure and therefore use the rights given to us by the citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1713	Yes, I gave you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1714	As for Mr. Prorokovic, who is also deputy head of the DSS parliamentary group, it is an image of the political party and him, as someone who is currently replacing Mr. Ristivojevic. Such a level of conversation, what you are impressed with, some statements and speeches by Zoran Angelkovic, who supports your minority government and who will do so until the moment you do what they ask of you - it is your problem and you must deal with it, not to inform the SRS MPs about your personal impressions of the SPS leader. We don't care about that. We are here to tell you that we will keep an eye on everything you do, that there are many of us, there are 82 MPs of the SRS here, and that our presidential candidate will win, and that he will control your government, and that he will use his right to bring back the laws, even one that does not go anywhere in favour of the interests of the state and the people. You'd better focus on everything he's gonna be expecting you in a sharp campaign that we're going to run against you, but with arguments, not such personal impressions as you have, Mr. Prophetovich. And if you were really in a position to present something as a counterargument, you wouldn't have sent me a message saying that the assembly, and I don't know which majority, in the voting day, would vote on some amendment announced by Minister Lonchar. You don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, whether you're all going to be together, and you know whether an amendment is going to change what I've criticised you for.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1715	The People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Darko Glisic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had a chance today for this pay phone to hear the election campaign again, we had a chance to hear each other arguing about who was what and when he was stealing, and we today have a bill that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has filed. True, by honoring the pre-election promise of the political party I belong to, this guy's promise must be fulfilled. What is it about this bill? The theme of this bill is to prevent conflicts of interest in the performance of public functions. There is a conflict of interest when there is a conflict of private and public ineres. It's a central place and a central theme of this law. When we talk about this, we cannot ignore the provisions of this law with criminal and legal provisions, nor with repressive and legal provisions, which apply to certain material regulations which are prescribed, which sanction appropriate behaviours. You have seen that in this bill there are tax-listed forms of behaviour of public officials that are forbidden. There are at least three types of that ban. One type of ban is listed in Article 6. A proposal of this law, where it is taxed on what a functioner cannot do. Then there is a ban relating to its management or management to economic operators, which is quite natural, because the functionator of the state cannot be at the same time, and is referring to the functioner in a narrow sense of the word, i.e. the institution of the executive authority in the State cannot be a management body or body of management of its own company or other company in the economy, as this would result in a conflict of its private interest and the interest of the State. As we know, the executive authorities, whether at the Republic, whether at the province or local level, are purchasing and obtaining adequate goods for the state's interest, are making adequate purchases, and all companies participating in the market can participate in these procurements. It's a key problem and a key stumbling block under this law. The next restraining order we're talking about, it's a gift-receiving ban. She's been decidently explained here. There is another ban, which, in a narrow sense, does not cover the issue of conflicts of private and public interest, which is a ban on governance in the boards of public enterprises and institutions in the state of Serbia. So what's the difference between this situation that we have now or that we're going to have after the adoption of this law and what we've had so far? Until now, the issue of conflict of interest in the event of public function has been determined solely by Article 49. The state administration law, which speaks of the incompatibility of the minister's functions. There is one similar provision in the Duke's regulation, in their decision on the Duke's administration and no other provision. On the basis of these provisions, we could not conclude, nor appreciate what this conflict of interest was, in fact, private and public, nor were there any sanctions for such conflict. That's why I repeat that criminal and legal provisions should not be prosecuted with the provisions of this law. This law is basically a moral value category. It's the only motive for bringing him in. He starts here and stops there, and anyone who talks about something else here replaces the thesis. It turns out that someone promised to bring rigorous legal measures, which would sanction certain immoral behaviors of officials. I'm sorry, every immoral behavior, every behavior contrary to good practices doesn't have to be at the same time both criminal and criminal, but it has to be branded in a certain way. How have we branded these behaviors so far? By talking to each other as citizens about it, by the media, by having discussed it in public, by making it known to the political parties, without certain and predetermined criteria in one law. This time, for the first time in this country's history, we have certain criteria and definitions of what we consider to be a conflict of private and public interest. That's what we all agree on here, about that definition. We can disagree whether this law is well written or not. That's why, gentlemen, especially since the law has come under emergency procedure, and there are amendments to yours that will make this law right. We have been and are still witnessing during this debate, and we will be witnesses in the course of the debate in particular, that there are a number of too many amendments, good amendments, whatever MPs they came from and which group they belong to. I am deeply convinced that the Minister representing the Government at this meeting of the National Assembly will hear about such amendments and that such amendments will be included in the text of this law. Therefore, our common interest is here to come from the assumption that we need such a regulation and that we will adopt it, and of course it is the right of each member of Parliament and each MP to try to correct it individually with its amendment. It's a senseless thesis that says this is a good intention, but it's not going to have a good realization, or what someone said is enforceability. You know what, prisoners are being executed, and laws are being passed. This law has no problem with its implementation, because its meaning is not in sanctions, its meaning is in the social definition of conflict of interest, because this time it will happen for the first time in the history of this country. The other day, I read in "Pres clipping," when it came to announcing the agenda of this law, there was a title in the newspaper that said -- for bribery on a pillar of shame. Yeah, and it's not just for bribery. But, gentlemen and ladies, bribery goes to jail. For abuse of official position, he goes to prison. We can't incorporate criminal and other sanctions into a law that makes a whole other sense. That's what we promised, that's what we talked about. Of course, the sanctions provided for by this law are moral character. It is quite different when a competent state authority adopts such sanctions through its decision, it publicly publishes, and when we have in the text of one regulation a precisely defined conflict of interest in which it consists. Therefore, it is the ultimate range and purpose of this law. Any insistence on something else is a complete replacement of the thesis and says that the one to whom the bill has been addressed and did not understand the proposal well enough or deliberately wants to talk about it in an opponent, dissonative way, probably announcing that due to allegedly these shortcomings will not even vote in favour of this law. Here, you who think you will not vote for this law, because you are offended because several amendments have not been adopted to you, and of course there will be virtually no parliamentary groups whose amendment will not be adopted, as far as I understand, because there are too many amendments from all sides, so please do not vote for this law, so you will demonstrate what you really are. Therefore, I recall that those who believe that this text is not well written, and who have the opportunity here to change it, do not have the right to talk too much if they have actively exercised executive power in this country in the previous period, and have had opportunities, at any time and at any time during the course of their conduct, and the authorities to pass the proper regulation, which in a better way would regulate this matter and sanction the violation of these rules. So, I repeat, this is not a law of offense, nor is this a criminal law. He has a completely different meaning in the best way I ask you when we talk about this law, let's first of all keep that in mind, and how much he will be implemented in the work, it depends, on one hand, on all of us and depends on how much we will all stick to him as functionaries. It is a kind of moral warning, which will be published in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia this time. True, it is not his range that can be applied in any case, in a 100% case, to the officials that this law treats, but this is a major step. If we say no to this big step, and despite the government's apparent efforts will be made to integrate any excess amendment in the text of this law, it is not called good co-operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1717	The People's Messenger Darko Glisic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dejan Mikavica be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is quite certain that preventing conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions should be regulated and formed in one legal way. The question is whether this bill does. Here, by analysing from member to member of this legislative proposal, in the first article we come to the situation that attitude 2 is rather vague and that it introduces a certain confusion into Article 1. "The context of public and private interest exists when a functioner has a private interest that affects or can affect the performance of its function"; it should - is already opposed or endangers public interest. Such a member could make it clear what he is referring to. As for Article 2, many speakers have pointed out before me, I think there is a chance that there is a chance for people who are subject to this law to be involved by judges. I think the judiciary is the area in which the most possible law on preventing conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions can be applied, for the simple reason that judges themselves can be influenced by them breaking their functions and violating this law. I think even to some judges this law could be applied immediately. In particular, I can give an example from the middle I come from. We have a case that the president of a district court in Valjevo has been elected to do so even though he does not meet the legal requirement to be elected president of the court, although there is no years of work in the judiciary, not even half of the conditions prescribed by the law, but he is the president of the district court, because his brother is a good friend with Cedomir Jovanovic, so the man became the president of the district court. I can give you an example, when you're here, and for the public prosecutors, this is supposed to be governed by a special law, say, from the municipality where I live, the public prosecutor is a coffee shop, the man's holding a coffee shop, that's where all kinds of guys come in, who leave huge sums of money, and there's a conflict of interest. He can't even prosecute them criminally if they break a law, run investigations against them, bring them to court, when they're his good customers. Those are his good customers. Ubo Public Prosecutor Milan Ilic, who took half the street with his coffee shop, is a direct conflict of interest in public works. That's why this bill was supposed to include something like that where they would be covered. And believe me, I've been able to see that in the last few months when I'm a member of the People's Council, and that's what keeps people the most down, the problem in the judiciary. They are most concerned by cases like this, where public prosecutors are involved, judges in certain smaller areas, where the public is not present, and it has gone so far as to really endanger the interest of the citizens of this country. I would like to comment on a few more things from the legal proposal itself, since there will be an amendment that will regulate the position of the board member and that is what you said. I'm interested in these kinds of measures, because it's really pointless for someone who's broken the law to be punished by public notice, and it seems to me, a little bit like a sports jargon translated, we're giving him a yellow card. What is it, if he does it again, which gives him a red card, which disqualifies him, is that a recommendation to resolve or maybe even a direct resolution of someone who definitely broke the law. Of course, fellow MPs from my parliamentary group have really made a lot of criticism about Article 33, where the procedure is really complicated, given that local parliaments are scheduled to form their committees, and they would control the implementation of this law and indeed would be much simpler and more comprehensive if a republican committee were to control and enforce such a law. It's not enough to suggest that sanctions of moral character are for someone who breaks the law. Indeed, if someone breaks the law and directly performs his function contrary to this and to all the other laws that are intended for him to do his job, and punish him morally, behold, he is now appealed to his morality, and why: someone who violates the law and who is prone to corruption does not have it. You can call him as much as you want, so you can label him as someone who's prone to breaking the law, and he won't care much about it, because if a man doesn't have morals, he doesn't, and it certainly won't stop him from breaking it. We will show you on our case that a responsible and moral politician should perform his duties, that there is no conflict of interest, that he does not violate the laws, and you will see that after 13 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1719	The People's Messenger Dejan Mikavica has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1720	Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of conflict, disagreement, I would say, between personal and public or general interest and public interest of public officials, almost regularly in our political tradition or, if you will in our people's understanding, has been resolved unfortunately in favour of this other. The reason for this is more, and the number of examples cannot be circled, as many cases are carefully removed from public insight. Neretko, this is why we are forced to refer exclusively to the political option we represent, even in this assembly, according to the appointment of those who do not hold to the general interest. However, with great certainty today we can conclude and confirm that the government of the rest of the DOS has remained in the people for a reason and in memory as a government where haters are, and their interests are being realised on the other side of the law. No matter how much the Democratic Party of Serbia tried to degrade, disable, silence, I would say, in its political action in that previous period, which had just had the goal of pointing to this relationship that was appropriate to everyone, but not to the people, it was visible enough. The number of anti-corruption laws that were referred to here for this speaker, the anti-corruption laws that were passed in the previous assembly, in this sense is almost irrelevant. It is widely known that the rest of the DOS did not hold much to the law, that it did not hold much to the right, or even to the morals. Laws have been played, state institutions controlled and abolished, and morals have been expelled from politics. Many affairs, however, have confirmed that the previous government is completely uninterested in fulfilling the functions gained in the general interest. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions therefore, of course, did not want to deal too much with it. That and that law seemed too dangerous and potentially dangerous. The problem of disagreement between public and personal interest has been particularly manifested at the level of the AP Vojvodina. Here, as I believe everyone is familiar enough, and this is the only time I would remind myself of that, the relationship between the province officials and the business crime bearers, and each other, not only obvious, but also has its own special appearance. Then, even when it's not related, it's about a certain obvious connection and similarity between those who represent the province government and those to whom it fits as such and the terba to do their jobs. When I say similarities, I mean that similarity in mentality, habits, if you want vices. What is evident in the AP Vojvodina is a substrate of the New Sad political pattern as the capital of the AP Vojvodina. The ruling coalition agreement between the Democratic Party and the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has proved ideal for gaining profits, material and political, those who long ago in Novi Sad and the province have no political legitimacy. The government in Novi Sad is recognised as incompetent, irresponsible and criminal. Perhaps this law will not be completely disabled in its political, material and financial purpose. But we believe her, too, will be a lot or at least a very difficult job. The government of the Democratic Party and the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina in the AP Vojvodina and Novi Sad may have to endure another month, but by this law we can directly and indirectly influence it and also provide assumptions for a better, more moral and more successful government. The principles and amendments, amendments and additions, I believe that we can agree around them and that this anti-corruption system law is needed by this society, that it makes sense and that our society can benefit in any way, perhaps even in those relating to ethics, or virtue, which is so often lacking in the performance of public functions. Only with it does it seem possible to overcome the illusions that unlimited, even uninterrupted power, can bring, as Aristotle said, health to sick rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1721	Replica, Mr. Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1722	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on several occasions today we have drawn attention that it is irresponsible to assess large groups of people or groups of people who do their job in a decent manner. If a person does not do his job in a fair way or if he violates the laws, then the name of the person who violates those laws should be given an answer in a criminal - legal sense, and this is such an irresponsible and irresponsible flat-rate assessment of the entire parties to break the laws, and in particular that it is absolutely not true. The Democratic Party and the structure of the government is such that five ministers who were non-partisan, ministers at the very end of the mandate, and there were ministers from G17 plus, from many NGOs, participated many ministers who were highly professional. And this government is purely politically defined and there are no members out of it. Government, National Bank Council, etc. Do not mention the Democratic Party in the context of a violation of the law. If someone has broken the law, please name and last name, and what kind of a circuit assembly, with flaws that they possess or with MPs who like or dislike someone, in a civilized sense, tells the fact that this province's assembly today is unanimous, after the debate in which the DSS participated, adopted a proposal to abolish the law on the rights of Hague indictees. The Democratic Party of Serbia also participated in the debate. She did not vote against the law, so it means that the circuit assembly probably had a beneficial fact even on DSS MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1723	The word has the People's MP Branislav Rankic and let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the law under discussion today by some MPs of the Serbian Radical Party used to mention the presidential candidate and should not be mindful of us because I am convinced that you, too, would, if you had presidential candidates, mention that your party authorities had already made that decision. However, the law and decision on this law fell at a time when the presidential elections were called and perhaps those who proposed this law already wanted their adoption by its adoption to attach the epithet that it was an honest authority and that with this adoption of the law they would not have any corruption and conflict of interest. Perhaps it would be better if the title of this law - the law on preventing conflicts of interest in performing public functions. However, if you want to perform public functions, you do. These committees are intended, above all, for those who currently rule in Serbia to have the opportunity to employ mostly their relatives and friends. Several hundred in all of Serbia, with very high salaries and thus, multiplied by number three, provide themselves with a electoral body. Serbia's problem is corruption in the whole of society, and it will not only be prevented by adopting this law. We must fight corruption by starting with children through primary and secondary education and beyond, in order to create quality people with high moral qualities, who will not reach out for abuses of functions on which they are found the next day. In an explanation, I will mention two illogicalities, two members. In Article 4, the first position says - "the functioner is obliged to comply with the rules governing his rights and obligations and to create and maintain citizens' trust in the security and responsible exercise of public office". So, you're willing to appoint someone without knowing if he already has a reputation for the citizens, you're willing to appoint him and that he later as a functionary, only then, creates and maintains trust in the fact that he honestly and honestly performs his function. If you have appointed someone who is not an honorable person, no law will prevent him, nor will it allow him to convince the citizens afterwards that he is honorable. In Article 5(2), a very interesting formulation - "a functioner must not do the job of consulting legal and natural persons. The exception is the Messengers of the people, the messengers and the councilmen." Imagine a clerk who has a son who needs to go to college and ask his father for advice on what to write, and he tells him, "son, as a functionist, I can't give you such advice." So, starting from this to the 37th, there's a lot of illogicalness, and I think this is just a marketing law that you expect to get you a better pass in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1725	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1726	The draft law on the agenda today belongs to a group of bad laws because it is practically inadmissible. It's inapplicable, and if that's the situation, then it's not worth passing one of those laws. Then just waste your time. Maybe the media and the demagogue thing ends, but it doesn't get the point. Of course, the promoter made a mistake first of all that he could not find a constitutional basis for this law. He found the constitutional basis in the provisions governing the organisation, jurisdiction and work of the republican authorities and in another member of the constitution that says other issues can be regulated by law. If the creator of this law had turned only a few sides ahead, he would have read that there is a Article 53. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly states that everyone is obliged to adhere to the Constitution and the law and to perform a public function in a safe and responsible manner. It is probably the only one or maybe there is another member in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that uses the concept of public function. The public function as a concept is obviously indivisible, which means that it cannot be divided into provinces, municipalities, republics, but every public official is subject to this obligation. The problem with this law is that it actually goes on one edge. The problem was faced with other countries, and the practice is different. In some countries, this is not regulated by law, but rather by the state authority to the state authority, by provisions in specific laws or by sublaws, regulating the way in which a conflict of interest is prevented, i.e. that the public official does not come into the situation of having doubts about the personal benefit and performance of his/her duties. The promoter, apparently, has estimated that this is to be regulated by law here, and if he proposes that, then it must be at the level of the entire Republic, and only one authority must be responsible for the implementation of this law. As soon as this is divided into levels of government, and the local self-government in a formal legal sense is not a government, then this basic idea is so diversified that the practically proposing after regrets that he thought to pass this and this law. Consequently, the promoter did not convince us what a conflict of public interest is, when there is this conflict, in which it manifests itself. This logically follows the wrong solutions, and not only with the authorities, but also with measures, and measures are some of the more political and legal consequences of the situation in which the public official found himself, without informing the competent authorities, but which could be a legal consequence with the importance of criminal or material responsibility. This law doesn't regulate criminal or material responsibility, that's correct. He only regulates a state in which a public official can come, to suspect that he can't be impartial, because his private interest drives him to a little cut off from his official duty, which warns him and obliges him to work in exactly the prescribed way. Some countries have resolved this issue by normising, i.e. over-normation, so that, in practice, a complete procedure has been arranged to lose the discretionary authority of officials, law enforcement persons. The United Nations General Assembly is also familiar with this problem. She has passed a special code on how the persons working under the law should behave. Our country signed it and made a commitment. We've been trying to fix this with amendments. There are 40 and some amendments, and it's a completely different concept of law, not only about organs, but also what we call measures. If the body to which the property of the functionor is to be reported, the body to be notified of certain private tasks of the functionor, does not have the authority to carry out any consequence of the situation, then the question is really asked why the authority that needs to be unpublicly or publicly alerted. Had to be a personal category. Not all people should be urged to have the positive morals needed to perform their public functions. If it comes from that presumption, then it seems a real terrible mistake. It's our practice that disproves us every day. Morality can't be settled by law, it can't be made by decision. We probably need such a single law to prevent corruption, abuse of official powers, that always come post-festum, more as a consequence, rather than something that needs to prevent the situation. If someone thinks this law can scare someone, they can't do it with this text of the law. That's why we have submitted such a large number of amendments, so that we can settle this law, starting with a definition of what conflict of interest is. What you have written is a conflict, I will read: "A sport of public and private interest exists when a functioner has a private interest that affects or can affect the performance of his public functions". Well, every citizen has his own interests. Its interest can also have a positive and negative impact on the performance of its function. We therefore propose in the amendment to change this, to make it clear that conflict of interest within the meaning of this law actually exists when the private interest of public officials is contrary to the public interest, or when private interest affects or may affect the impartiality of public officials in performing public function. If you accept this definition, that logic is followed by these amendments that would probably have to be accepted, to show in a clear way how this should prevent the conflict of private and public. This law kind of goes into a matter called discretionary powers of public officials. But, I'm saying, only partially, superficially, in hints. It may likely be beneficial to judicial authorities, who are faced with several criminal acts with the discretion of officials. That's a real problem in our justice system. A few courts are being evaluated whether or not there has been an abuse of position in the use of discretionary powers. A high-quality law could also help courts, as one impasse, to see what social commitment is, in which sense these discretionary powers are defined. Since I have an association with the Law on the financing of political parties, I suggest we adopt these amendments, not to pass that law as well as this one. The law on the financing of political parties has been pounding on the head of just the ones most insistent on the text of the law. They are now in an unwarranted position. It's changed. It will probably be with this law, which today is on the agenda, the same fate, because it must be taken into account the voice of reason. We are asking amendments to determine who the public officials are. If you have read these amendments, you have seen that this is a larger list of public officials, which are listed, but also with two attitudes, we have given a description of who might still be, within the meaning of this law, a public official and subject to the obligations of this law. I have to say, I don't understand why the judges went over this bill. The independence, independence of the court, is one dimension regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The specific laws governing public and judicial functions also contain certain provisions, but very imprecise, so I would say even inapplicable, not as precise as the provisions of procedural laws on the exemption of judges, and I believe that the provisions of this law would have to be essentially applied to the holders of judicial functions, by being a special body that would do these jobs. This would preserve their independence and independence. In that sense, if you are already planning to change the Law on Judges and the Great Personal Council, I think there is room for the provisions of this law to apply the Council when it comes to the holders of judicial functions. I can't figure out why you avoided the President and the Constitutional Court judges to cover it. They are not holders of judicial functions, very specific, not classical, constitutional-judicial functions, where rights are considered and based on the law of individual interests and in general on the legality and protection of citizens' interests. They had to be in this law and they would have to report not only their property, but all those conditions and those cases where their private interest could endanger the performance of their functions. Furthermore, with the authority responsible for implementing this bill with the Proposer, we cannot agree at all. The circuit board, the local board, it's completely unnecessary. We need one organ, one committee of defined composition, not this combined composition, so combined, even that the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts is being defamed, as it enters some dirty area and dirty matter. It shouldn't have been as a proposing, nor as a ten-counter-list maker to put in the Academy. Mystique and honesty prove themselves every day. We propose that there be one committee at the level of the Republic, we propose that the appropriate number of members, that the majority of members be persons who choose the National Assembly from their own composition, means, from MPs from different political parties, and that the chairman of the Committee cannot possibly be the person who belongs to the party who is in power. You have no greater competition and greater political conflict of interest than when you place representatives of five or six political parties in one place. The greatest control then, in such a situation, is that, by the terms of this law, there are no sanctions, but there is something called measures. Well, that's even an incorrect term. Rather, it could be said that this is about political and legal consequences, which has occurred, which has been found to be a conflict of interest in a certain public official. We can't agree with you about these measures, because it's not public, it's public, it doesn't really mean anything. We propose that the relevant infringements of the provisions of this law, which did not result in adverse consequences for the exercise of public office and the dignity of the state, be imposed a fine, i.e. it would not be called a fine, but a three-month suspension of one-third of the salary of that official. So a comparative practice shows that there are countries where exactly so regulated - one third of the salary of officials is suspended, which did not respect the state and the authority, did not report the property and did not report that there was a conflict of interest, so regardless of the consequences, whether it used something, allowed someone else to benefit or cause damage. Then there's a point to this law. Publicly, unpublished appeal to whether to resign or to be resolved, tie the cat to the tail. So go to the Internet Hall, look for parallel practice, and you'll see a few countries where even that form of punishment exists. It's close by, 50 meters, you'll see that there are practical and such solutions. There are still sentences here, even though we are all against this Rules of Procedure. Those provisions were not annulled by the Constitutional Court, but probably assessed as in accordance with the Constitution. Why are you worried about the punishment to pay for the one who broke the laws? And he should pay. For the injuries that represent sloppyness, we've predicted a warning. The third, most rigorous sanction is the public publication of a decision by the committee which is called upon by the person to resign or propose to the authority to resolve it because it has acted contrary to the provisions of this law. These are real political sanctions. Let me see that organ that won't solve it. We make the difference between the names and the faces, on the one hand and the selected faces on the other... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... elected persons, public announcement of the decision to resign. We are, of course, also making a paper that every public official, during the election, makes two statements, saying that he agrees to conduct proceedings before one such body, such as the Republic Committee and another declaration which undertakes that, if the Committee finds that he has committed a serious violation of the law, he resigns. There may already be a speech about some sanctions, something that's serious. What you wrote is inconclusive and inconclusive, and it'll end up being ridiculous.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1727	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I remind you that the MPs Miroslav Jankovic, Vojkan Tomic and Boris Karaičić have drawn amendments to Articles 9, 12, 19, 20, 22, 33, 35 and 36 in writing. National MP Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment proposing a change in the name of the bill. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1728	Ladies and gentlemen, it would be nice to have Mr. Loncar with us now, because today we are in the process of debate both from him and from some DSS MPs hearing that some amendments to the Government and he, as a representative of the motion here, will be accepted. But there's no Mr. Lonchar, and we don't even have a notice that the government was obliged to comply with Article 143. The Rules of Procedure deliver, where they would inform us which amendments they eventually accept, which they do not accept and for which reason they do not accept. I expected those who pose to the legalists not to make at least these formal failures. Today, in the morning part of Mr. Lonchar's session, he used my lapus when I said prices would collect. He said prices can't be collected. It was a lapus, they don't collect prices, but under the new rule of the goods of broad consumption, they collect daily, and that was the essence of what I wanted to say. Mr Loncar also said, alluding to my address to parliament, that some MPs use this speaker to collect cheap political points. Since he's not here, and I see you writing something for him, ma'am, write it down, so ask him to answer us: if these are cheap political points, if there are such, what are expensive political points? If the political points of the DSS are measured by the value of this law, or by the amount of a billion and 500 million dinars a year, which Serbian citizens will have to set aside to pay the various committees you provide for in this law, then you are indeed collecting expensive political points. As for the amendment, I have proposed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to change the title of the law and to say that we are talking about a bill on preventing conflicts of interest in performing public functions. I wanted to bring this bill down from the very title into the framework of our legal order, within the framework of our legal system. This is the fact that the name of the law is understood by replacing the word "execution" with the word "reporting", because duty can be performed, and public function is performed. So there can be a performer of duty, but there can't be a functioner. It is common to hear that let's say Mr. Predrag Markovic v.d. The president of the state, and what if by this law Mr. Markovic was v.f. The president of the state, so we wouldn't know if he was a functioner or if he was some high-frequency president. I would also like to propose to Members of Parliament that, starting with this amendment, which regulates the title of the law, they accept both this and the other amendments of the MPs of the SRS Group. It's the only way this law will make sense and it's the only way it's really going to have any effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1729	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1730	I just started talking about this amendment. In the draft law, Article 1 has two positions. In the first position, it is said - the official is obliged to perform a public function in such a way that the public interest does not subdue to private or conflict between them. He is probably thought to be banned from causing a conflict between private and public interest. It can't stand in the law. This law prevents it from happening, and situations inevitably arise when the conflict arises. When you translated, you had to pay attention to the true meaning of that word in the dictionary. Item 2, here is how you define a conflict – a conflict of public and private interest exists when a functioner has a private interest that affects or can affect the performance of his public office. Please, the private interest is not only in some benefit expressed in money, nor in the benefit of another close and dear person, nor in causing harm to a third person, nor in causing and creating damage to the state, an organisation whose public function is. If this is how you define it, then forget the law, it doesn't exist. We are trying to amend that, so we say, "This law regulates the prevention of conflicts of the private interest of public officials and of the public interest in performing a public function." Item 2: "The course of interest within the meaning of this law exists when the private interest of a public official is contrary to public interest or when public interest affects or can affect the impartiality of a public official in the performance of public function. "Station 3: "When performing public office, public officials cannot put their own private interest above public interest. "The position of the 2nd amendment defines everything; the soul and framework of this law is given, defining in what sense this law should move and does not deny the existence of different interests, but stipulates that its provisions want to regulate the situation when there is parallel and at the same time the existence of private and public interest, that it removes any conflict and what is done not to bring parallel, simultaneous and conflicting interests of the state and its functionator. So, if you understand what conflict of interest is in terms of this law, then the solutions to logic things follow. Since Article 1 is not defined in your proposal, but from the hills of the valley some concepts which are neither individual nor regarding the relationship given in the sentence mean nothing, then it is no wonder that you have wandered the provisions of the authority and registration and registration, the measure, so why not say the deadlines for fulfilling certain obligations within the meaning of this law and for the start of the application of this law. It's just that I get the impression that you didn't want to go straight to the end and solve this. You promised, so since you promised, come on. What we promised is in this little book. And is it possible, is it enforceable, is it feasible, can it make someone bound? We have a bitter experience with several laws over the past month, by system I'll jump 10 meters; so who's going to jump 10 meters. There, in the next room they're struggling, the poor, they don't know how to solve what's in the law, and it's inadmissible. Laws that cannot be passed should not be adopted. Why is he slaughtering the ox for two kilos of liver? Find an answer to that question, and you'll write better laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1731	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1732	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you have already heard during the principle debate, the SRS has, through the amendments submitted by its MPs, offered a completely different concept of the law to prevent conflicts of interest in performing public functions. In our opinion - because we have a little different, or logically arranged these members - it was normal for the first member to determine the subject of this law and Mr Krasic spoke about this article. The other member has been more precisely identified by public officials within the meaning of this law, and the third member precisely determines who the public officials to which the provisions of this law apply, etc. The amendment to Article 2 deletes the title above Article 2, and Article 2 is amended and reads: "A public official in the sense of this law must always act with honor, honesty, security, responsibility and impartiality, to safeguard the dignity of the public function he performs, trust of citizens and personal reputation and dignity. The public official shall be personally responsible for his actions and inactions in the performance of the public function to which he has been elected, appointed or appointed by the authority who has chosen him, appointed or appointed him and to the citizens who have chosen him. The liability referred to in Article 2 shall not exclude the criminal and material liability of a public official under the general rules on liability. The public office shall be prohibited from exercising public office from benefiting from the exercise of personal interest or from the pursuit of the interests of the connected persons designated by this law. A public official shall not be in any relationship with persons who may influence his objectivity in performing his public function. Citizens have the right to be informed of the work of a public official as a public figure." The objective of this amendment, namely all amendments to the SRS, is to give this law some way to seriousness, to prescribe precisely how public officials should carry out their duty and to give appropriate powers to the committee, which, according to our proposal, would be unique, and to provide adequate sanctions. As we have heard in the debate so far, this law will cost the citizens an enormous amount, which is something about a billion and a half dinars, and it represents only salaries for the people who will be hired on these committees, for the board members, for the secretaries, and for the technical service that will monitor the work of these persons. I will also remind Minister Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, who convinced us from this pay phone last week that there was no money for the judiciary and that there was no way to help these people; he assured us that, including the court staff, as he called these people, in the distribution of 50% of the fees charged in courts, he would improve the material position of the judiciary. I invite him to explain to us why this money, meaning these billions that will be thrown into the wind, were not used to help people in the judiciary and to raise their salaries to judges. And I remind you, these people can be chosen without a day of school, and they'll be three times as paid as judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1733	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Svetislav Krstic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1734	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, Mr Minister, this is an amendment submitted by the SPS to Article 2. He's very logical. We were in a conversation at the MP's club, where Mr. Minister and his associates explained the essence of the law, and we were having a debate about it, and we proposed immediately at the beginning to install what is an amendment. However, we have heard that this will be resolved in another way. What's this about? It is that this Article 2 defines that this law, which we are discussing today, concerns officials appointed, elected and appointed in the bodies of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade, as well as public enterprises. That's the first attitude. Article 3 states that a special law will regulate conflict, i.e. preventing conflicts of interest for those officials appointed to the bodies of institutions and other organisations whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, AP, municipalities, city and city of Belgrade. What does that mean? This means that we will have the same matter of two laws: one for officials in the bodies of the Republic and public enterprises, and the other for organisations where the Republic is the founder. What is the difference between officials in a public enterprise and institutions whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. For example, such as the Republic Institute for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, the Republic Institute for Health, the labour market, etc.; or, privatisation agencies. Of course it doesn't make any difference. It is about officials appointed by the Republic, it is about institutions established by the Republic and the objective of this amendment that, firstly, one law is less adopted, because it is known -- the more laws, the more holes in the law, the more chances that laws are not respected. I think this proposal is very logical. And of course, another consequence: two laws also mean an increase in administration, an increase in procedures, which are in the application of all that is related to certain costs and which complicates the application of the law. That is why it is really illogical that this fully constructive and obvious SPS amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1735	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Korac. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1736	Do I always have to start my presentations with being a messenger, not an MP? Dear colleagues and colleagues, Article 2(2) says the conflict of interest in the performance of judges of the Constitutional Court, judges, public prosecutors is governed by a special law. I felt that such a solution was not good, so I handed over the amendment and I think we should adopt it. My amendment reads: "The provisions of this law apply also to the judges of the Constitutional Court, judges, judges for violations, public prosecutor, deputy public prosecutor, unless a special law is regulated differently." I think it is very important to establish mechanisms that remove and control the potential conflict of competence in the exercise of public functions in all three branches of government: legislative, executive and judicial. I think this is necessary because of the comprehensive establishment of ethical standards, which we all probably stand for in the adoption of our laws. I think it's important to do so for the conduct and conduct of court proceedings. Moreover, many surveys in Serbia, unfortunately, show that the perception of our citizens is that corruption is the greatest in the judiciary, so I do not see why this law does not cover people who work in the judiciary. That's why I'd ask the Ministry to accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1737	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1738	Ladies and gentlemen, one part of the essence, and most of the time, the precision and the finishing of the law, we're trying to do the amendments we've submitted. This is the amendment to Article 3, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, and I spoke in principle of our opposition that there are republican, provincial and municipal committees, 200 committees, and by cost account we have reached some number of billions and 500 million dinars. Article 3. Not only does it not talk about the existence of these kinds of committees, but it is quite precise, Mr. Minister, in defining who are the bearers of public functions. If this law does not define itself, and if every committee at the local level -- because I don't think you'll accept the amendments, we'll see in the end, that there is one republican -- starts to define who public officials, or public function holders, it won't be good. My amendment says, I will read it in full, that the title above Article 3 is deleted, and it only regulates who the committees are, or which committees exist to address conflict of interest, and we suggest that there really is only one at the republican level. The amendment reads: "The public official within the meaning of this law is the person elected, appointed or appointed to perform one of the following public functions: President of the Republic, we have talked about it in the context of the campaign; we are going on, President and Vice-President of the National Assembly, National MPs, President and Vice-President of the Government of Serbia, Minister, President and Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, Governor, Vice-President of the Council of the National Bank of Serbia; the Republic of Serbia's Vice-President and Vice-President of the Republic of Serbia, Secretary and Deputy Secretary of the Council of the National Bank of Serbia; the Republic of Serbia, Deputy Ministers of Ministers, Secretary of Ministers of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, Directors of the Secretary of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, Deputy Ministers of the Ministers of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, Deputys, Deputys of the Ministers of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, Deputys of the Republic of Serbia, Deputys, Deputys of the Ministers, Deputys of the Ministers of the Ministers of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and memberss of the Europeans of the Presidents and the Presidents of the Presidents of the Republic of Serbia and the memberss of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of the Europeans of the Europeans of the Republic of the Europeans of Serbia of Serbia of the Europeans of the Europeans of the Republic of the Republic of the Europeans of Serbia of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the members of the Presidents of the members of the members of the members of Serbia of the Europeans of the Republic of the members of the members of the members of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the members of the Europeans of the Presidents of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the Republic of the Republic of the members of the members of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the members of the members of the Republic of the Republic of the members of Furthermore, a second view says: "The public officials in terms of the provisions of this law are considered by other persons who perform public functions, appointed or appointed by the National Assembly, the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous District Assembly, the Executive Greater AP, the City Assembly, the City Hall, the Assembly of the Municipality or their executive bodies." In the event of a dispute whether a person is a public official from St. 1st and 2nd of this law resolves (meaning only one, and in our opinion there should be only him) the Republic Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. The provisions of this law apply also to the prevention of conflicts of interest against the person performing the function: President and Judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia (it is also very important), the High Court of Commerce, the District, Commercial and Municipal Trade Court, the Republic Public Prosecutor and its deputies, the district and municipal public prosecutors and their deputies, with the special law determining the authority responsible for deciding on a conflict of interest. "We think it is necessary for you to accept a comprehensive and precise amendment to Article 3 or its amendment, in order to truly know from the beginning to the end who are the bearers of public functions in the right sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1739	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all of us in our election campaigns were saying that we would always accept something that was good in the National Assembly. As a New Serbia MP, I would like to say that this is one of the extremely good amendments proposed by MP Natasa Jovanovic, otherwise my Kragujevcan, and I believe that this amendment cannot harm anything if we accept it, regardless of what was proposed by the opposition. I think this amendment determines exactly who it refers to, who the officials and in the end will only improve this law, cannot do any harm. My proposal, therefore, is that as MPs, we take a reasonable look at the overall situation relating to this law, because this law is necessary, beyond Serbia, but in any case, there are many good and quality amendments that need to be incorporated in order to have a comprehensive law that will be good and that will mean a lot to the citizens of Serbia. I support this amendment as one of the very good amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1741	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1742	On the basis of Article 97. The Rules of Procedure, since it is in this assembly, I would say by who knows which time, denied by a representative of the Democratic Party. It is about the head of their parliamentary group, about Mr Pajtic, who, after my presentation, quite in cold blood, claimed that DSS MPs at the AP Vojvodina Assembly voted in favour of a proposal from your MP. In this case, I can also say quite responsibly in front of this assembly that DSS MPs in the AP Vojvodina Assembly voted against the proposal to vote on a province law that puts the Republic's law on Hague indictees out of force. So it's something else entirely, and you misused this pay phone by making a harsh lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1743	Replica, Mr. Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1744	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mikavica is a young MP so he does not know that a stenogram is being conducted in this assembly. I said the DSS MPs didn't vote against this bill because they came out of the room and didn't fight for their position, they didn't answer. Gentlemen, I said the DSS MPs did not vote against and did not vote against; they discussed against, they did not vote against, they came out of the AP Vojvodina Assembly session cowardly. The proposal was made unanimously. He couldn't have been brought in unanimously, simply logically he couldn't have been brought in unanimously if anyone voted against him. The DSS MPs came out of the O.R., and that's true, and you can check that in a stenogram, so there's a stenogram and every word spoken for this pay phone wasn't thrown into the wind. So, if it's unanimous, it's impossible that DSS MPs voted against, you don't need parliamentary experience for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1745	She has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1746	Mr. Pitch, we'll take a look at the stenogram, and we'll easily determine what you said. I have to say, it's been hard for you both to understand right now, and even when you were talking about Bodrum, and whether or not someone voted from Turkey, but we're going to determine the truth as well as in the first case of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1748	Mr. Vice President, thank you, and you know what to do. My amendment refers to a change of name. That means there's more of us who don't like this name. The name above Article 3 shall refer to committees to resolve the conflict of interest. I have made an amendment to this article for the reason that I felt that the title should be, that is, more appropriate – the Republic Commission for Public Government Standards. In line with this, throughout the law, all of the following amendments to our parliamentary group also refer to the Committee's need to be changed by word - commission. I propose a change of name primarily because I think it takes a mechanism that will primarily prevent conflict of interest, not only solve it, as this title says. The Commission for Public Government Standards should be an organ entrusted with the over-trusted establishment of standards of public life by education and prevention. The Commission should play one far-reaching role, not only to prevent conflicts that have already arisen. I'm not saying this by heart, these solutions exist, or these organs exist everywhere in the world. Their role is to help public officials, before and during their duties, to perform their functions in the general interest, to prevent conflict. This authority should act preventively, issue manuals, organise seminars, training, give and publicly publish opinions, suggest amendments to relevant rules in the domain of public authority ethics and raise public awareness of the requirements in the domain of ethical standards. Also, I think this commission should be professional, work full-time, be available to officials, help them resolve their dilemmas regarding a potential conflict of interest. They can't do that to officials who do administrative work on the board, or to the commission. And such professional, high-level bodies exist in Slovenia, Poland, England, Ireland, France, Canada, America and many other countries. Speaking of professionalism, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary to refer one question, and that is, when it comes to the salaries of the board members, how you explained to someone earlier in your address after the MPs' speech, I ask you whether it's salaries or fees, as it says in Article 20 paragraph 2 of the Law, and does that mean that they have the right to receive a salary elsewhere, because Article 20 states that these are fees, and you have explained that they are salaries. There's a difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1749	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1750	This is one of a series of amendments to the Serbian Radical Party where we Serbian Radicals want, for the sake of precision, to reject what is in some way too high in certain members, so in Article 4, we have something that is unnecessary for us to stand, which is that "the functioner is obliged to comply with the regulations governing his rights and obligations and to create and maintain citizens' trust in the safe and responsible exercise of public office. The functioner must not be in any relationship of dependence towards persons", not to read any further, since you have the text of the proposal. This is excessive and should not stand, and not only because of it, but we all understand that what is simple, short, clear, it is also the most efficient, and in order not to repeat some things more times we have also clearly interpreted in this amendment to Article 4, and made the difference between public officials and what is generally defined as a functionary, as well as what is considered a connected person. We have thrown out what is not in accordance with the spelling, it is purely technical correction, and I see no reason why the proposal's representative would not accept this amendment, because it has been submitted for accuracy and as a correction of the existing proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1751	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1752	Mr President, honourable MPs, I would like to express my dissatisfaction that we do not have the Government's opinion on the amendments we have submitted to the bill on preventing conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions. The minister is here, and we could shorten this debate to a great deal if some of the amendments were accepted, and we heard from the minister himself that many of the amendments were acceptable to the promoter. So I came out to explain what this amendment is about. Therefore, this amendment clarifies the notion of impartiality in terms of performing a public function, since each official and citizen with certain legitimate private interests which cannot be subject to this law. In this position 2 is said to be no relation of dependence on persons who could influence its impartiality; it is added "in the performance of public function", to specify what this impartiality refers to. In heading 3 - connected person according to this law is considered a spouse or an out-of-marriage mate, a blood relative of a functionor in real, is added "line", stuck and in an "in" lateral line concluded with another degree of kinship. This is how it turns out to be "in a straight and lateral line with a second degree of kinship"; therefore, it is precise. One more thing, as a People's MP, I am obliged to point out one inaccuracy that has been expressed after this pay phone. Namely, it is said here that today, the Vojvodina Assembly has put aside the law passed by the Serbian Parliament. That's impossible. The Vojvodina Assembly cannot put aside the laws passed by this assembly, the Serbian Parliament. Only the Vojvodina Assembly, as an authorised promoter, has put forward a proposal to abolish the law. So the Vojvodina Assembly cannot abolish the laws passed by the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1753	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1754	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the remarks that were here at the speed of law-making, his urgency, his ambiguity, given the circumstances, are quite relevant. And here in Section 3 there's a non-coastal regulation. What's the meaning of a coastal regulation? That means you don't know when it starts or when it stops being applied to the subject of application. So you have this dependent sentence at the end that says which are connected faces, so it lists all of what my predecessor just said, and says, any other legal or physical person who, according to other basics and circumstances, can reasonably be regarded as being interested in the functionator. If such a formulation is adopted then there is no need at all for the first formulation of the degree of kinship, relations with the family, the Tasby, etc. We're in favour of erasing the second formulation, of keeping it first, of keeping everything that determines one position in the family, and of erasing this sentence. Why? Because it leads to legal uncertainty and a lack of clarity as to what we, as public officials, not only in this assembly but all others, should we report, which persons, whose property, and to come into conflict with that commission or that republican committee that will say, "You know what, it was founded to report your brother's property from your uncle or I don't know who." So it's not necessary in this place. An interestingly connected face has places, other faces have seats in other members, and here it is not. Here the concept of a connected person should be only up to this sentence - with the first degree of relation and there should be a point, and the last dependent sentence in paragraph 3 should be deleted. So it's imprecise and impeccable, and as far as it's normally impeccable and impeccable, look at this article that my predecessor didn't notice, or this sentence, is considered to be a married or out-of-marriage friend. Let's have a little fun, why married or out of wedlock? It may be that there will be some younger officials covering both relatives, married and out - of - wedlock.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1755	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1756	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 4 or to the proposal to add a new Article 4a after Article 4a has been submitted because this amendment more precisely regulates the situation where urgent prevention of conflicts of interest is needed. The amendment reads: "In a period of seven days from the day of the election, appointment or appointment of a public office, a public official is required to settle his private affairs in order to prevent a possible conflict of interest, and if a conflict of interest occurs within that time period, the public official is obliged to resolve him by protecting the public interest. In the event of a suspicion of whether or not a public official is acting in accordance with the principles on which the public office is performed, that public official must request the opinion of the Committee." We think this law is a bogeyman; the boogeyman is afraid of the children, so after a while, when they turn two or three, they realize there's no bogeyman and then they're free to act. So it will be with this law, because the warning measures, public or secret, cannot help solve many of the problems that arise in the performance of public functions. No matter what we think, this is just part of a campaign that starts with the DSS, G17 and other parties that make up the government, and no matter what we think that campaign is hopeless, because Serbia already has a new president and will get a new president, Tomislav Nikolic, we are still trying to help you get this look, something that would be applicable and that would actually sort of regulate this area. I would just like to warn you, we are passing this law by an urgent procedure, a law that we can call "a babarog", and at the same time we are awaiting and delaying the adoption of a bill on amendments and amendments to the Guarantee Fund Act, a bill on amendments to the Law on Payments, a draft law on the regulation of the obligation of the Republic of Serbia on loans for economic development, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax on Financial transactions, an amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing Goods, a bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises, etc. Many people in Serbia, many private entrepreneurs, many citizens are waiting for these laws to begin a new cycle of their activities. Many are now in the dilemma of what to do and when these laws will be passed, whether they will be exposed to excessive business risk if they operate under existing law or await the application of these new laws. So, because of a law called the "babarog", which will not endanger anyone and will not alter the behavior that will be unique to public officials, which is otherwise regulated, sanctioning such behaviours, the Criminal Law, a whole series of your laws await order and delay.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1757	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1758	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, the amendment to Article 5 is essentially related to Article 2 which defines the function. Under the law, the function is believed to be what the official does based on elections, appointments and appointments in the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province, municipalities, cities, etc. Article 5(1) states: "The functioner may accept another public function only with the consent of the authority which has appointed it or appointed it as a public office". I don't see why the part about people elected to public functions has been left out, especially the part relating to officials who perform public functions as elected by an authority directly elected by the citizens themselves, such as that. National congregation or congregation of territorial autonomy. On the other hand, I believe that we define Article 5 more precisely, which clearly states and covers the whole area with which the defined function is intended as a public function and officials in Article 2 of this Act. Indeed, I regret once again that the Serbian Government, I know that it is hyperactive these days, but I think it is binding, according to the Rules of Procedure, to deliver an opinion on the amendments, regardless of what they think the opposition is not important and important in this House. I don't see the purpose of why the minister is sitting here and what's his purpose if he can't tell us what the government's position on all the amendments the opposition MPs have submitted to the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1759	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 6 and Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1760	Dear Members of the People, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6 in order to improve the basic text of the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions, only because I believe that the text of the norm, as an essential part of the law, must be clear and precise. In this respect, it must be improved and certain terms must be clear and accurate. So I wouldn't go out for this pay phone if I wasn't sure I'd convince you and you'd respect this amendment of mine. In fact, instead of the word "functioner," it should be "public official", for the simple reason that all officials are not public officials. The title above article 6 is completely meaningless and unnecessary, and at point 1) of this article stands - acquires. I guess he should be standing. The real ones are coming. Next, the public office must be performed, not performed. Practically, I've brought together the 7th and 8th points of this and the 1st Section 1... I'll read in the integral text my amendment, so that you can assess whether it's good or not. "The title above article 6 is deleted, and in Article 6 paragraph 1, the word "functioner" replaces the word "public functioner". In paragraph 2, the word "functioner" replaces the word "public official", and point 1) is changed and it reads: "1) acquires new or achieves existing rights for itself or enables the exercise of rights to another, if that violates the equality of citizens before the law". At 2nd point, the word "execution" is replaced by the word "indication." Point 7 is amended and reads as follows: "7) It benefits, for the sake of obtaining benefits for itself and for others or for doing harm to someone else, knowledge and information that it has come to the public, which is not available to the public, or restricts access to public knowledge and information that is of public interest, and not by law, by other regulation or decision of the competent authority, in accordance with the law, declared public, military or official secrecy". Point 8 is deleted. "In my opinion, this is not some law, because every law should have a legal standard. We've forgotten that there are common norms. Someone here said the law doesn't have sanctions, that sanctions are normal. Then it's a normal norm, it's not a legal norm. Exactly the legal standard differs from the normal norm because the state needs to sanction that regulation, that norm. Practically, there are no sanctions here. No matter what, this amendment that I have proposed would mean a significant improvement in this legal text.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1761	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1762	Ladies and gentlemen, here's another contribution from the legislator to the ambiguity of the regulations and what he wanted to achieve. In the first position of article 6, says – the official is forbidden to use the function publicly to influence the decision of the legislative one, then nothing more, says - executive or judicial authorities. What about the government in the province, the general acts of the circuit assembly? What about the general acts brought by the city of Belgrade? What about the general acts brought by the municipalities? That's what the proposer completely dropped and ignored, and apparently he had no intention of doing it. Therefore, it is another proof of how lacking this bill is and how quickly it was done. That's why we advocate that instead of legislative, they be words - representative bodies, which is normal, and I think the legislator would want it. Secondly, it is quite logical to say in the same article - to conclude a legal job or in any way an interesting advantage - to consider it to be a national MP - to himself or to another. I guess we make laws here to please the citizens. They're for us other people. "To please others" - so we must make sure that we do not bring anything for the benefit of the citizens. Take logically how that regulation stands. Totally incomprehensible. So we must not bring any regulations that please other citizens of Serbia. Then he says to himself. So we couldn't raise our salaries or anything else to decide, which is within the realm of the Republic Assembly. That is the essence of this amendment. I won't read it, you have it in your files. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1763	Anyone else want a word? The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic Trifunovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1764	Article 6 sets out actions which are prohibited from being carried out by officials, or which bring them into conflict of interest. In Section 2, more important things are, or certain things, actions highlighted that officials should not work, so that they do not come into conflict of interest. However, I find, and that is what I have suggested in my amendment, to delete points 2), 3) and 5. Point 2) reads - it is forbidden to abuse the specific rights that belong to it to perform public functions. Point 3 is also required to delete, read -- it is forbidden to accept, seek or accept any value or service for voting on anything or to influence the decision of an organ, body or individual. Point 5), I also ask that it be deleted, reads - forbidden to affect the acquisition of jobs or public procurement. I propose this eradication for the reasons that these actions are the acts of committing the crimes that have been found in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. It's about parts of taking bribes, corruption in public procurement and abuse of position. If these actions, in my opinion, were to remain in place in this law, in addition to having them already in criminal law, it would mean that this committee, which I have since the beginning of the commission, which is being formed, should determine whether criminal acts have been committed, which is inadmissible interference with the judicial authority and police work. I would comment on the presentation of counterpart Ristivojevic, when there was a speech in principle he said the Criminal Law was only repressive. I wanted to tell my colleagues... I'm sorry, I made a mistake last name, a lapus... that the criminal law is also preventive, besides being repressive, because it says what everything in one society is forbidden and how it is punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1765	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ristivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1766	Just for a short time, distinguished colleagues, to replicate to an esteemed colleague in relation to the purpose and function of criminal law, i.e. generally preventive and special preventive function, which is carried out through the application of penalties. I call on an esteemed colleague to show me a member of the law that talks about the prevention of the KOZ or the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and I will take her to dinner right now, no problem. There's one science called penology, it's an upgrade of criminal law and it talks about the purpose and function of punishment and punishment. Only on the theoretical plan does it assume that criminal sanctions, through repression, have a preventive purpose, which means that the legislator only hopes that by punishing another man all others who are not punished will realize that what has been done is wrong and will refrain from committing crimes. However, this assumption has proved to be wrong, and evidence of this is a very high rate of relapse among perpetrators of criminal acts, at least in our country. This means that despite some principled attempt to punish criminal law, it has a preventive purpose, in practice it does not. Recidiv is very high in some types of crime, e.g. In theft, it's about 65 to 70%. So, as much as we want criminal law to have a preventive function, it mostly doesn't. There are other measures, means and ways to combat crime, which have a preventive function, but they are not strictly in the area of criminal law. This law has that function and needs it. There are a bunch of other means and methods, but if we were to talk about them now, this would turn into an academic debate, and it's neither the place nor the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1767	Thank you. In the meantime, I ask all MPs once again to stick to the strict agenda, without having to schedule private meetings, without advertising. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1768	Ladies and gentlemen, already in the debate in principle, I have pointed out that every listing in the law is dangerous because you risk leaving out something or writing something that, for example, is dangerous. This law cannot or should not be prevented. The law should have been general and allowed the Committee to interpret - if they already have so many salaries, they will probably be ready and professional enough to interpret - whether someone has caused conflict of interest. We'll accept Mr. Vukkovic's amendment for hitting the core. But, for example, how few things are foreseen and how much, in point 6) you say it is forbidden for the official to receive compensation from a state or international organisation, except for travel and other costs related to participation in international meetings, in accordance with the decision of the competent authority. If someone asked you what you banned from this, you wouldn't know what to say, because we don't know what other expenses are for participation in an international event, and we don't even know what you've banned. What if one of the officials wins the Nobel Prize? You've forbidden him... (From Hall: For peace, and the President of the State. (President: Please. Interestingly, it occurs to me that I could win that prize. Just because there was a listing in the ministry and then whoever thought of it was listed, and what they didn't think of wasn't listed, and there's not enough time and there's not enough attention to avoid an error in the list. It's not a good law. Looks like an election campaign to me. It looks like the diaspora voting law I'm warning your coalition partners here. One day when elections are called, you will wave these laws and speak - we have promised you a law on conflict of interest, we have brought; have we promised to vote those people abroad, we have. And the fact that none of this is going to happen, and that's the most important thing? Are we passing laws to wave at them in two months or can they be applied immediately? I know you're bringing them in to wave. Here, I'm waving too, but that doesn't get you anything. There's no use for company. You know very well, it will be months before you agree on what that committee will look like. There is no obligation for anyone to propose to you candidates for board members to propose this to you within the time limit; either he will be punished or SANU may be punished if he does not provide you with candidates for board members in time. That means we'll face each other in these few months of election, I'd say, waiting for us now, with more examples of these laws. You don't have to do that, and I mean, if there's any reason, with the adoption of two or three amendments that have been filed and the parties that are in the government, we're going to totally come up with a bill and you know it very well. That's why, really, in the voting day, we'll all be radicals here and we want to prove to you how easy it is to break such a bad law. By the time I got out for this pay phone, I want to congratulate all Orthodox and Catholics on their holiday, a great joyous holiday. If God had given it all to affect us in the future, we would be a little more concerned about each other. We really want to help you make this law look better, if you're willing to receive help. There are good amendments, and neither will we vote for every amendment, but we will vote for those who correct the law. I repeat, it will affect the fate of this law, at least as far as the SRS is concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1769	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1770	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just now the DSS MP was talking about the preventive functioning of this law. This is not health care and medicine that it is important to act preventively, but it is sometimes necessary to experience Western countries, such as England, to take, where this individual and collective consciousness is much higher, and where if you throw a piece of paper at Green Park or Hyde Park, you are fined 100 pounds. It's not their consciousness at a higher level, but they're simply taught to have conjecture if they do something they don't need and it's not moral. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 concerning a statement of conflict of interest. Article 7 reads: "If the body or body discusses and decides in which functioner or connected person has a private interest, the official is obliged to declare the existence of private interest before his participation in the debate and no later than before the start of the decision. Only Members of the people, MPs and councilmen are excluded from this duty. The body or body at whose session the official has announced the existence of interest, shall be obliged to establish and enter into the minutes. This does not affect the rule and exemption of officials and is prescribed by a law governing the general administrative interest." In our SRS, it is defined that the title above Article 7 is deleted and that the word "functioner" is replaced by the words "public official" in the corresponding drop. First of all, this amendment follows the previous amendments of the SRS. It's about legal-technical change. First of all, the public official is the person chosen, appointed or set to perform one of the public functions. In Article 7, only a functioner writes, and it can be a sports official, so it's not defined at all. You have already had the approval and MPs of the post, when Natasa Jovanovic, an SRS MP, exhibited and taxed all the functions considered public functions, and began from the President of the Republic to the employees of the state administration, the province administration, as well as the local self-government administration in the affairs of inspection oversight. That is why it is necessary to define precisely that it is public officials, so I would ask the Minister of Local Self-Government to respect these arguments and to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1771	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS feels that one of these laws is quite expedient, fast and that it may be the product of someone's beautiful desires, but it is generally difficult to apply. We've tried amendments to fix this law and bring him in as far as possible to this purpose. I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 or I have specified the part concerning whether it is a functioner or a public official, which my colleague Goran Cvetanovic has explained nicely. However, in Article 8, I asked for another position to be added, and it is a member who prescribes the obligations of a public official in relation to his management rights, as far as the Members of Parliament are concerned, i.e. the persons elected by the citizens, so MPs, MPs and committees have the right under the pretext of this law to retain the management rights they have already acquired. However, the bill itself did not oblige them and what they should have as an obligation, except in that part, and I think it is Article 10, where their rights are equal to the other rights of public officials. I asked this amendment to add a new position which reads: "If a business operator in which a public official has management rights participates in a public competition or in any other way enters into a business relationship with the authorities or organisations of the Republic, the AP or local self-government unit, or with public undertakings in which the Republic, AP or local self-government unit has more than 25% of the management right, such a business move is required by the public official to notify the Committee immediately", whether it is a republican, a committeeAP or a local self-government. In one such way, we would avoid possible abuses and MPs, i.e. those who choose citizens when they operate their management rights towards legal and other entities that are in a smaller or majority part owned by the Republic, i.e. the AP, or local self-government organisations. Since we have not yet received opinions from the competent committees, nor from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who is the legislator of this law, I simply do not know who to turn to to accept this amendment, because I believe that the minister, as an authorised representative of the promoter, does not have such authority without the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1773	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Milan Nikolic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1774	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Nikolic, Mr. Secretary, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I may have tabled an unusual proposal. I've proposed to delete article 8 of this law. I admit that if most would accept it, it would in some way change the essence of this law, but I find it so difficult to implement what it says in the law, that I simply did not resist the need to suggest that this article be deleted. For the sake of the public, just to remind you of the position of 1st of this member, who says that the official is obliged to transfer his management rights to a legal or natural person within 30 days of the election, standing or appointment, to his or her economic operator, which is not a person, that he, in his or her own name and for the account of the functionor, shall perform them until his or her function has ceased. Please, as soon as you pass something on to someone, it becomes a connected face. That's what the 2nd of this article says. I ask all of you fellow MPs, who may have property in a limited-responsibility society, in the form of a share or in the stock companies in a number of actions - you are because someone valued you as an expert in a particular area chosen as a functionary, but under this law you are obliged to transfer your management rights from your property to another legal or physical person, what will you say that you trust with the management of your business and the keeping of your property; whereas you cannot decide who you prefer to manage your property - who you trust most? You have a son, daughter, wife, single children, brothers and sisters, mother - in - law, brother - in - law, brother - in - law, brother - in - law, brother - in - law, brother - in - law, brother - in - law, brother - in - law, brother - in - law, brother - in - law, brother - in - law, have a wide circle of people of whom you cannot trust anyone with your business. In four years' time, while you're doing one job most frequent, most honestly, the one you passed on to, and that outside this circle, running your jobs, could ruin your jobs. Then who's to blame here? Second, who are people, legal persons or individuals who would accept the management of a business, or the admission of management rights, of someone who has been elected to a particular function. If you have the pain of a clerk to report all assets and all income, but just all the people I spoke about, all within 15 days, to do the duty of Deputy Minister, Minister, Chief, etc. And that he's arguing with all of them because he legally or illegally reports them for the work they're doing, or if they're not willing to report them to the board themselves, then you see how much a good intention, and not a slow good intention, can be absolutely and difficult to carry out in life. Finally, what do we mean by management law? If the people listen to this, they primarily think it's the director of an economic operator's company, which can one day, and maybe it can't get into some business relationship with people who work for the state, which in itself doesn't have to be illegal, dirty, unfair, and it doesn't have to be harmful in the public interest. It's not just about the directors, but maybe some other people, who have spent their whole life investing in some business, some business, a job, and today, for the sake of the interest of their political party, people, or for the sake of some kind of self-affinity by some business, accept to perform public office. Then you will come to have a drastically narrowed base of personnel who will at all accept or be able to do some important work for the state according to this law. I'm not sure this member could have been fixed. If it were, I'd suggest it. At least I couldn't fix it. I don't know if it's possible for the government to make an amendment that would go that way to reconcile these contradictions that I've been talking about, but we're going to have a hard time realising that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-08-0.u1775	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by article 81, it's time for work. Please, of course, I want a happy Easter to all believers of Christian religion. Be with your families and your people by Tuesday at 10.00 p.m., when we continue the session. At the same time, a session of the Legislative Committee will be held on Tuesday, April 13, 2004 at 09.30 a.m. on the ground floor. Bon appétit.
