ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the 9th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session today is attended by 131 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Slobodan Vukkovic, Miroslav Martic, Zoran Micovic, Nadica Momirov; Nikola Milosevic (before noon). We move to the 1st item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments of the Law on Judges (continuing the principled search of the 1, 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda) The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2476	Ladies and gentlemen, the government of Vojislav Kostunica has only two faults. One flaw is that in some areas, still, absolutely nothing has been done, and the other is that in areas where "as" is done, it does something wrong and it does it wrong. When it comes to the area of justice, then the government comes to the National Assembly with some packages of laws. Ten days ago, we had a package of laws that only had five members. Today, again, we have three laws and we have no fundamental improvement in the situation in the judiciary, based on these laws. Instead of the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Minister, this job has been done in the way it is expected from the Ministry, which means, with a serious approach to bringing this area together, to do literally codification, to do a valid bill, which the MPs would discuss, and indeed, for one longer period, we regulate this very important segment of our society. The laws we are discussing today, or whose changes are due to be adopted today, have been in effect for three and a half years. The quality of these laws is just the fact that those who passed these laws were not satisfied, so for example, the Law on Judges has already been amended seven times! It's his eighth shift today! The Law on the High Council of Justice today should be subject to the sixth amendments! The Law on Public Prosecution Fourth Amendments! Now, you see for yourself how many quality legal regulations are involved, when there was a need to change from four to eight times in three years. The Serbian Radical Party represents the view that the 1991 Law on Courts and the Law on Prosecutors were much more comprehensive and that they had much better regulated these areas. These laws were, above all, absolutely in accordance with the Constitution, because we know that the Constitution of Serbia, Articles 95 to 106, regulates this matter and that these 1991 laws included both organisation and establishment, jurisdiction, court proceedings, and judicial oversight. Therefore, our view is that it is much better that these laws remain in force, than that these problems are partially solved, which surely cannot be partially solved. The Serbian Radical Party has not even submitted amendments to these laws precisely because we believe it cannot be fixed irreparably that amendments could not be brought into line with these laws so that they could really be applied. Yesterday, Mr. Minister told us that the Council of Europe's assessment that Serbia's judicial reform was not at all and that it was disastrous in that area! We know perfectly well, and without the Council of Europe, that the situation in the judiciary is very bad, that it has become particularly bad at the time of the DOS government. We know that none of what was promised to the judges and employees of the judiciary is respected. We remember all the halabus about the alleged increase of the judges' salary to 1,000 marks. The fact is that even then the salaries were not increased to 1,000 marks, at a time when the salaries really increased 1,000 marks were perhaps by 4,000 dinars more than the wages received by judges. Since then, there has been, in particular, another problem of court administration employees, because these people's salaries haven't been increased, so we all remember very well when we came to debates in courts, that we were returning to unfinished work, because these people were strikers, they didn't accept working for such small wages. Of course, whether they were to strike -- that's a particular question, but that they're disproved by that increase, that is, the lack of pay, that is, the fact and we don't see in the work of the new minister and the new ministry that something is being taken care of, because the judiciary is not just judges, with all due respect, there are those people without whom judges and courts can't function. There's the court's office. Yesterday, we also heard very interesting bickerings between DSS and DS representatives about this 2001 Act and these current amendments to the Law: in 2001, the DSS and DSS adopted the Law on the DSS proposal, because then they were all DOS, and then when they had a fight, the DSS changed those laws, and today, the DSS wants to return the law that it proposed in 2001, through these changes, and we in the SRS feel that the judiciary should not and should not suffer the crackdown between DOS founders' parties. Yesterday, too, Mr. Minister said that by applying these laws, which will be amended, there will be no rematch, but he says -- simply for some judges, the presidents of the courts, there will be no more conditions for prosecutors to be elected! It's not a neck, it's a neck! Today, i.e. after the adoption of this law, public prosecutors, i.e. public prosecutors' deputies, will have reason to worry about their status: because they will all be on white bread, because they will all have to apply again for their jobs, and then they will choose again those who answer, and those who for some reason do not respond, will remain in this group, as the minister said - where conditions will no longer be chosen. In addition to my claim, it's exactly what I was saying yesterday, and as far as the judges are concerned, - so we have the Supreme Court's decision, so we have the exact names of the people that the government was supposed to return to work, and when I asked Mr. Minister for an explanation he told me: yes, it was the government's obligation. He told all of us: The government did return some judges for violations, some did not, because there was no possibility, so he will see the government, perhaps one day to hire them on other jobs. We think it's wrong and that this way you can't run such a significant branch of government. The Serbian Radical Party in its programme, which has existed since the SRS, has been paying attention to the judiciary, respecting the judiciary as one of the main pillars of the state, and we in our programme only foresee courts of general jurisdiction, two-stage trial and an extremely third degree for the most serious crimes or for enormously high value in the case. It is precisely because these laws are in no way in accordance with the Constitution, not in accordance with the SRS programme, the SRS parliamentary group will vote against the adoption of these laws. Individually, the Law, or amendments to the Law on the High Council of Justice, does not deserve to be commented on, according to our view, for one simple reason, because the High Council of Justice is an unconstitutional category. It's clearly in the Constitution, it's all about these laws, that's how they should have been arranged, and that's why I don't have a comment on this law. When it comes to the Law, that is to say, amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, the fact is that these amendments to the law are, in fact, just makeup and there is no, I said that at the outset, no substantial improvements in this area. For example, it is in Article 2 of the amendment that nothing really changes, not even formally; everything that is provided for in the amendments of Article 2 that is already provided for in the amending Zkon, so that there was no need to change that member, or the position of this member. In Article 3, you predicted that the judge could, without anyone's permission, engage in scientific and professional activities, with compensation. This is, you know, very interesting and very symptomatic, I'm just asking, here's an example: does this mean that a judge can go to BK University there to give a lecture, for an hour, and get a fee and will it be treated as a science work? I think this is inaccurate and it can't stay that way. In article 10, you deleted the position that says the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia no later than 30 days before the day of completion of the working age of the judge informs the Committee of the National Assembly. We have a very fresh example: yesterday several times mentioned the name of the President of the Nish District Court who did not act according to the attitude that you are just erasing, and therefore I think that because of such examples, which I suppose he has yet to have, it should not have been deleted. Article 10a refers to Article 10a. 56. The law - in the light of the proposal, you wrote: a procedure to determine whether the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia is, etc. This is really very interesting - and you wrote the Supreme Court and Serbia a little letter. So much for how many Serbian radicals we look at these suggestions. In article 14, you predicted that Article 79a should be deleted. Among other things, the view is deleted, which states: "The judge is considered to have been unwittingly acting on the part of the judge if he was exercising judicial authority or performing affairs under that authority, has participated in the end of the electoral will of citizens, political and mounted trials, or has severely violated human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, the law and the international contract. "Yesterday, Mr. Minister said he didn't think there was any need for this position to stand in the law anymore, because now, someone, I just don't know who, guarantees there can be no more electoral thefts, that there can be no more mounted trials. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, who will be responsible if, after the next presidential election or possibly parliamentary elections, the sacks of votes from abroad arrive, will it be stealing votes and who will be responsible for this theft if it no longer stands in the law?- I'm sorry. As for mounted trials and political trials, at least we Serbian radicals know well how many such examples and now there are in court practice. We know of Judge Danko Lausevic, Judge of the Fifth Municipal Court, whose resolution we initiated two years ago, and to this day no one came forward, and no one thought to at least examine what Serbian radicals are looking for in Judge Danko Lausevic, who was abused, who was tried to harm Vojislav Seselj, and in the case of Stanko Subotic-Caneta-Zapca! Unfortunately, there are other examples like this. Such an example is also Judge Ljiljana Mihajlovic of the Fourth Municipal Court and simply, not to list any more examples, Mr. Minister, you should not have deleted this attitude from this law. When it comes to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, Article 1 is exclusively about some "language" corrections, nothing essential. In Article 3, too, nothing essential, and what you are predicting, it is already guaranteed by the Constitution: "If the public prosecutor's office is abolished," you say, "the public prosecutor continues his duties in the public prosecutor's office set up by the High Council of Justice". It's already regulated by the Constitution. It doesn't bother you here either, but it's not some change you should be boasting about right now. In Article 44, i.e. Article 5. (and you are changing Article 44) You say, "Republic Public Prosecutor, Justice Minister and the High Council of Justice can, depending on which one of them is in charge of the resolution procedure, abolish the decision to move away before the resolution procedure is completed." And my question is, just -- what's the Justice Minister doing here? In Article 8. - the same thing I said to the judges, you say, "A public prosecutor and deputy can do without anyone's permission to deal with scientific and professional activity -- and that's what we suspect in the Law on Judges, it's also suspicious of this law. All in all, these changes are like I said only makeup, language preparation of the law, proposals that the SRS will not accept because we think that the area of justice, that judges, that employees in the judicial administration deserve adequate care and these National Assemblys and the Ministry of Justice and the Government of Serbia, and that too, unfortunately, is missing this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2477	Thank you. The People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vojislav Milajic be prepared. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. At the same time, I'd like to welcome you to the Faculty of Law Gallery.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2478	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try not to take up much of your time, but I must begin this discussion for criticism, or criticism, unargued by some MPs of the opposition, and I must start with 2001 and the good intentions of the DSS to propose a set of judicial laws. In November 2001, some good laws were fundamentally, subsequent amendments in 2002 and 2003, led to absurdities so radically modified, that all these changes resulted in judges or presidents being elected persons who had literally "no" day of work experience, in the judiciary or that the deputy public prosecutors were appointed by the minister from their party members, who also lacked experience in the judiciary. We have to admit, and that's what all the political parties, at least those in Parliament, have agreed that the judiciary is at low levels and not just in the past few years, that the judiciary has been on low-level for a long time and that it causes a lot. All advocates, all political parties, for an independent judiciary, but in practice we have seen, in the past year or two, that this was understood by the independent judiciary in such a way that the party in power or a group of parties in power wanted to control the work of the judiciary, that is to say, to control the conduct of certain judicial proceedings, whether civil or criminal. Therefore, I must point out, if we already agree that the situation in the judiciary is not good enough, I would not be dramatic that it is extremely bad, because it is generally accepted that the vast majority of people who work in the judiciary are both aware and professional and can adequately do the job. A small part of the corruption, i.e. a member, either in the prosecution or in the judiciary, needs to be changed. This proposal by the DSS, i.e. the Government, is precisely seeking to make a move in the proposal for a set of 2001 judicial laws, which remove the adverse consequences of the changes that have been made so far in order for the judiciary, i.e. employees in the judiciary, to continue to become more dependent on the executive authority. The pursuit of the executive authority, or government, was not only about putting the judiciary under control, but also about all other forms of government! This has also been achieved through changes, which, as you know, have been assessed by the Constitutional Court's decisions in large part, as anti-constitutional. So at this point, I am also amazed by the behaviour of certain former members of the authorities who are calling on the Constitution and the alleged violations of the Constitution, not giving concrete objections, or by the concrete provision of the Constitution which has been violated, only generally called for a violation of the Constitution, and in recent years they have just done everything counter-constitutional and said that the Constitution is bad and that it does not even need to be applied. Doesn't all this remind you of that saying, or the truth that was happening, that the judges are not obliged to follow the law "as a drunk float". It's exactly how it's been done in the past few years. Now the appeal to the alleged constitutionality, or violation of the Constitution, and there is no such injury, nor has anyone in these two days been able to indicate which provision the Constitution was violated. What Serbian citizens need, that is, from their point of view, is the judiciary, the prosecution, that the judiciary is functioning effectively; that there are no court disputes that will last for years, that there are no criminal proceedings and investigations that will take years, that there are no multiple and multiple suspensions of judgments and the conduct of proceedings until fatigue. These laws will not be fully resolved, as these laws regulate only one segment of the achievement of an independent judiciary. The second segment, as Mr. Minister said, needs to be amended by procedural laws. At this time and these laws achieve the independence of the judiciary and take away the authority of the Government, i.e. the executive authorities in the control, i.e. the appointment of judges or prosecutors. Therefore, the newly envisaged institute, i.e. the Supervisory Board formed in the Supreme Court, which will be able, according to the views of citizens or by its own initiative, to exercise control over the work of judges or to propose possible measures, to be very helpful in the process, i.e. proceedings in courts as short as possible, or to be effective. This, in part, will achieve an effective and independent judiciary, because, as I said, citizens demand that everyone in court be equal, whether they are in power or out of power, and that the judiciary be as effective as possible. Only these proposed changes are made to ensure that at some point the judiciary in Serbia is truly independent and that at that moment, which I hope is not far away, the judiciary in Serbia is one of the pillars of democratic Serbia's power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2479	The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajic has the word, followed by the MP Milos Aligrudic. Vojislav Milajic, not there, has the word of the People's MP Milos Aligrudic, followed by the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2480	Whatever you think about this package of laws, one thing is certain, that we should all agree in one thing in this assembly, which is that there are some institutes that are related to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that must, in order to be democratic society, be applied in practice. It is: independence of judges and judicial positions, i.e. The judge's functions, the independence of the prosecution and in this respect, in relation to the judges -- the immobility of the judges, as one basic segment of their independence. These basic principles, which rest on the principle of power-sharing in one country, which is one of the basic principles of the democratic system guarantee, were implemented in the laws proposed by the DSS in 2002 to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and which were then adopted. Later, and in order to deviate from these basic democratic principles, the ruling majority, likened to the DOS, amended these legislation packages and in 2002 devalued this system by making the judiciary subject to the executive authority, and even the Constitutional Court of Serbia had to react and abolish a considerable number of provisions of these laws in 2003, thereby creating a legal void, which later had to be filled with new amendments and additions to this set of laws. Afterwards, we came to a situation where these laws were somewhat improved, but not sufficiently so that they could be said to be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Only with these changes and additions to this setazakon, the situation is returning to the old -- we are coming into a position that these laws that were passed for the first time in 2001 will be restored to the bed of constitutionality and legality. So, this whole today's debate and yesterday's debate, whatever someone's talking about here and whatever it is they're up to, comes down to one simple and basic fact -- are we in favor of the Constitution and the law? If we are in favour of the Constitution, then it is necessary to adopt such draft laws, which are put on the agenda today, for the reasons that they are protected by the basic principles of the division of powers, which are: the independence of the courts and the judicial functions, the immobility of the judges, the independence of the prosecution and, in this respect, the achievement of these basic functions, the system of independent authorities, the positions of two very important bodies, and that is the High Council of Justice, and on the other hand, the Great Supreme Court of Justice. Of course, it is formed this time, and this is an opportunity for it, and a supervisory board that is an important institution, which should help achieve different control of the work of courts and relieve pressure by executive and assembly authorities. So these are important arguments, these are the important postulates on which these bill proposals are based, and all the other stories we've heard over the past two days, have to come forward and fall before this. I also appreciate that someone has a different system in their head that would regulate the entire structure of the judiciary, but for that kind of thing, it would be good to see that kind of bill. I wish I had had had had the opportunity to see from any MP or any other MP, the MP, to propose here a single system, a set of laws that would single-handedly regulate the judiciary. We haven't seen that package of laws until today. So far, we have seen only those reform laws that were filed by the DSS in 2001 and we have seen their systematic deterioration by the DOS in 2002 and 2003. Therefore, today we are in a position to do one thing, one effort, and that is to bring the regulations from the area of justice into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that is what must be done today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2481	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2482	The honourable MPs, in the light of the Bill's amendment to the Law on Judges, which represents a kind of old and new DOS-based praise, are mostly praised, to God, the achievements in the judiciary from 5 October 2000 to today - as if the judiciary and courts had not existed before 5 October, as if the judges had not worked or tried until 5 October, and those courts had received formal guarantees about the independence of the courts. The Great Great is personally larger, as an anti-constitutional category, bigger which, to God, will maintain the independence and independence of the courts. The creation of the High Council of Justice, which is reportedly going to address the status issue of judges, prosecutors, jurors and deputy public prosecutors, is also being praised, and in fact, gentlemen, never, since the Second World War, besides these high councils and grand councils, has Serbia had worse, nor, in fact, "less courts". It was during that period of October 5th that the courts were never less independent, in fact, completely dependent and the judicial function was part of the DOS political government, although formally separated from the legislative and executive authorities. Dear People's MPs, the court office is a constitutionally guaranteed form of equal, impartial and orderly protection of the rights of man and citizen and has turned from 5 October into biased and unequal protection of the rights of man and citizen! Why, then, do these praises proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and which are cited in the light of this law? Probably to help your coalition partners from the former DOS, to justify the court's behaviour during the anti-constitutional state of emergency, to justify "Sablja" Dusan Mihajlovic, whom our judges and judges, detaining more than 12,000 innocent people, have done an unprecedented injustice and disgrace to the Serbian judiciary! All of this was done by DOS judges who had reached solutions to determine detention by order of the executive authority, and for no reason or cause kept 12,000 innocent people in custody. Practically, under the company and parliament of independence of courts and judicial authorities and violations of the principle of division of power, unlimited rights are given to obedient judges and it is legal for them to be irreplaceable. What is the work of our courts, we know best who work in the judiciary - he's just a disaster! Court disputes last for five, ten, and some for amazing 15 years?- I'm sorry. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, imagine a judge who has been judging the case for 10 or 15 years. How many criminal cases are out of date, and how many criminals have not suffered any sanctions because of the absolute age of law enforcement? The courts are full of cases like that. What is the quality and quantity of the decisions of individual courts? How much corruption is there in courts? How long have the citizens been waiting for justice to get rid of their case? Are you for an independent judiciary, as well as the invariability of courts that have no quantity and quality and which disputes are unable to resolve for 15 years? Practically, changes and additions to this law are not essential. They are, above all, cosmetic, where only in some cases are done and only a formal language change of term. Certain provisions are introduced, as well as e.g. Article 11 which is inaccurate. I quote, "The court... about the same rank", which is more inaccurate and unclear than the existing basic text of the law. Practically, here the motionor deregulates relations, leaving it to the High Council of Justice to determine which is approximately the court of the same rank, which is incomprehensible and inadmissible. Article 27 also does not suffer almost any changes, as the judge, as in the current legal text, could carry out scientific and professional action with compensation. It's the same case with Article 34, where the word "function" is replaced by the word "debt." The amendment provides for the education of the Supervisory Board, which is a member of 40a, who will be tasked with controlling court cases, and under the control carried out, initiates the procedure due to unprofessional and unconscious performance of duties, or proposes the pronunciation of disciplinary measures. The introduction of the Supervisory Board in the Supreme Court is an absolute failure for the following reasons: the Committee cannot appreciate the expertise of a judge who has the same expertise and the same legal exam, but could already have at least one degree of professional training more than whose justification is valued. Otherwise, it would mean derogating an appropriate high school institution, i.e. the university, where the judge has won a degree, and at least a lack of awareness can be determined, because it is the jurisdiction of other state authorities. That is why the current control solution by the ministry, though bad, is better than the upcoming one. This solution would be the biggest insult and humiliation of judges if a colleague of the same rank and school preparedness assessed the judge's expertise. The expertise and security most approximated can be seen and determined in the quantity, quality and norm that the judge has in solving cases and decision-making, which should and must be a lasting task of courts and trials at all. Therefore, the judge must have a small number of abolished and annulled cases and constantly transfer the norm and be adequately rewarded for it. In Article 41, a cosmetic change, where the word "Yugoslav citizen" is replaced by the word "national of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro". Article 44 introduces, in practice, the moral-political resemblance from the time of Joseph Broz, where opinions on the professionality and dignity of the judges are obtained, and I pay particular attention to "worthyness", based on a session of judges, instead of the exclusive criteria being the quality and quantity of judicial work throughout the year. In Article 46, practically nothing is changed, because the existing Article 46 is clear enough, I quote: "The People's Assembly is elected by the judge on a proposal from the High Council of Justice", so the proposed amendment is absolutely unnecessary because the existing member is both explicit and clear. Article 52. - it is absolutely unnecessary to delete the text "the competent committee of the National Assembly", because it is logical that the responsibility of the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia is to notify the committee of the National Assembly of which judges and presidents of the lower courts are bound by the working century next year, for the simple reason they are appointed by the Serbian Parliament and it is not true that it has anything to do with the independence of the courts. Now I would especially like to point out to a member of the 56 you're changing - you're giving the Minister of Justice the right to initiate a procedure for dissuasion of judges. So, in addition to the President of the Court of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court, you are giving amendments to Article 56 to the Executive Authority's representative -- the minister to initiate the procedure for dissuasion of judges. Here your mouth is full of praises about, God's independence of judges and judges, but when they need to be removed, then they are not independent, but dependent on the minister, because if they are insubordination, they can initiate a procedure for their shift. Indeed, I am now speaking to the entire Serbian public, and I want to expose your demagogy, to God, to an independent judiciary, because you are apparently trying to create. This article in 56 reveals your intention to get under your paw, i.e. The paw of the executive, put our justice, our courts, and our judges. Article 63 doesn't fundamentally change anything, nor does a member of 66 who changes so much as the term of office to judges takes four years instead of five years, as far as it has been so far. Article 79 is completely deleted, and it provides for specific reasons for the release of judges, and those who participated in the end of the electoral will and the mounted trials. As if now, Mr. Minister, there were no mounted trials, as if they weren't going to be in the future, as if there weren't going to be no voice theft, so you rushed to put these provisions out of force before the election?- I'm sorry. Dear People's MPs, you have now seen if you have listened carefully to the fact that, in practice, amendments and additions to the Law on Judges are a complete failure and that the most direct executive rule is being mixed up in the judiciary, so if you adopt them, it will be a step back in and out of our rejuvenation of justice. I therefore urge the Government to withdraw this proposal, and I urge you, honourable Members of the People, not to vote in favour of the amendment of the Law on Judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2483	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and after him is the Messenger Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS wants a judiciary, or judiciary like it was in Topoli 100 and a few years ago, which basically means that the laws in the area of justice and judges have jurisdiction over all citizens of Serbia, whoever performs what function and wherever it comes from. The SRS will not vote for this set of laws because it does not have any fundamental changes and provisions. At one of the previous assembly sessions, the minister said a new set of laws is being prepared. When Serbian radicals warned and said that the previous set, in fact, was not a fundamental amendment to the law, and he said a new set of laws is being prepared and would be given to the Assembly very soon. I don't doubt the good intentions of the minister, but what's meant to be here is not right, and it's not a major change. Yesterday, we heard from some debaters that our judiciary before October 5th was the worst, nothing at all. Some said that the judiciary, since the 5th of October, was corrupt and had a major crisis. The judiciary in Serbia is in a difficult situation and not only since 5 October, but before that, and in a difficult situation, because complete society is in a difficult situation and no segment of government can be seen, no segment of the organisation in Serbia is isolated if the crisis is in the whole state -- that a particular system works the way citizens would like it. The impression will be that the SRS is not for some changes and improvements in the area of justice, however, it is completely incorrect. These proposed laws do not provide quality in the judiciary, nor do they lead to the improvement of quality in the court that citizens expect and which judges themselves would like to have in their work. In the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, there are several newspapers, such as internal control, where the Supervisory Board is formed. This is actually a service for the Great Personal Greater, and there is no possibility of measuring some decisions. In Article 46, paragraph 1 is amended and this position is excessive; because it is defined by Article 1 to elect the National Assembly on a proposal from the High Council of Justice. In Article 63(2), paragraph 2 is deleted, and this member regulates the length of the term of office of the President of the Court. It's not clear, five years, which is exactly why it's been four years, and maybe it could have been two, six, or eight, so it's not some fundamental change. And I purposely left the last member of Section 41. (Article 6) The proposal) says "Yugoslav citizen", is replaced by the words "national of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro". I think that's the essence of almost all the changes to this law. These are irrelevant changes and suggestions that arise from this. As for the amendment of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, there are no quality changes, except that now deputy public prosecutors are choosing, too, the National Assembly on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, not the Government, as it has been so far. With regard to the length of the term of office in the area of justice, this is something envisaged to increase. All right, this could be accepted, however, this area requires much greater and more serious preparation and a thorough work on this problem. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice, and since it is not a constitutional category, we will not comment on this because it does not deserve attention. In its programme, the SRS paid special attention to the areas of the judiciary and we must all try together to make our judiciary truly independent, but not independent of the law, but independent of the executive authority. In one part of his presentation, the minister said that the executive authority has denied influence on judicial authorities, and that's what should be done, but we doubt that. She's trying through the law to have an even greater influence on the judicial authorities. Then, I noticed that at a time since this government was formed, there has been no coordination in the bodies of the judiciary. I have a concrete example; yesterday the Assembly made a decision on the discharge of the President of the Municipal Court in Ljubljana, Ms. Maria Protic, although she has the decision of the Great Personal Council that conditions for her resolution, i.e. retirement, have not been met. In an interview on April 18th this year, the minister said that we must pass laws that will be enforceable, thus acknowledging that some laws in this assembly, although the SRS proposal was not to be adopted and not to be adopted, are "accepted and adopted" and are not acceptable. Finally, I would like to say that yesterday I was impressed by the presentation of a national MP from the ruling party that a faction is being created, because he said that conditions and an environment for economic - agricultural production should be ensured in Serbia before everyone else, because it is a renewable resource, and that the conditions for investing foreign capital are as good as possible. Serbian radicals have just proposed other sets of laws that would regulate the area and create a better environment for attraction, and thus better conditions for the work of our courts and better protection of citizens, i.e. parties in the court proceedings could be achieved in these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2485	The word has been given by MP Miljko Cetrovic, after which, MP Zoran Krasic; the remaining time of the SRS group is 17 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2486	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, I would just like to, before I move on to these points of the agenda, to refer to the work of the Serbian Parliament in the regular session and the points of the agenda that have been so far. Everything the government suggested went through an emergency procedure. Unfortunately, these were all amendments to the law with several members. And you, who now make up so-called. The democratic bloc, you said in a pre-election campaign that you have 40 preparatory system laws - and only to come to power and you will immediately put all the laws in the process and then Serbia will become a state where the rule of law will be! Unfortunately, there was no such thing in Serbia, under the authority of DOS, and under your authority there was no constitution and laws. In your opening statement yesterday, you said you were unhappy with the state of justice. There was a controversy here from the meeting of the president of the district courts - whether they were unhappy and how many numbers were in that meeting. Turns out they did, that they didn't, that there was a small number. It seems they were dissatisfied with the presidents of the district courts, those who were anti-constitutionally placed in those places by the previous government. Are you counter-constitutional setting up of judicial functions to correct these amendments and additions to the law? No, on the contrary, the opposition to your amendments and amendments to the law continues, and therefore this High Council of Justice and the Supervisory Board, which you now foresee to introduce, do not have its legal basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia! You didn't ask a question, and none of the MPs asked if Serbia's citizens were satisfied with the state of justice?- I'm sorry. It was the saying that "justice is slow, but accessible." Serbian citizens have lost all faith and hope in justice in Serbia, because it is "extremely slow", and unfortunately, often "inaccessible". This also proves what the previous DOS government has done, which you are now trying to correct in some way, and the only reason with these amendments to the Law is to create conditions or basics, among others, so that a feasibility study could be produced, a Hornet name that has been in the public of Serbia for two years. Much has been said by the SRS MPs about the state of justice, about the concrete provisions of these amendments and the addition of the Law, and I would now, Mr Minister, if you would listen to me, to ask you a specific question: How will you correct the injustice against 172 public prosecutors in Serbia, who have been removed from their prosecutorial functions? Is there a solution to satisfy justice and end their prosecutorial post with a notice from the High Council of Justice? These people, without any assessment, without any criteria, are removed from their prosecutorial functions, and no one has told them a word or explained why it was done!- I'm sorry. Unfortunately, I come from the Kingdom, to be the removed deputy municipal public prosecutors, the wife of the Democratic Party MPs, with two years of working experience, and secondly the wife of the president of the municipal board of the Democratic Party of Serbia, as well as two years of working experience. The deputy prosecutors, who have 18 years of training and who have not been given any chance to defend their right to work, have been removed, although they have been safely working as deputy municipal public prosecutor and have received a positive opinion in the alleged competition and farce carried out by the municipal public prosecutor. In order for farce or lawlessness to be even greater, the Constitutional Court of Serbia is sounding unruly by the constitutional appeal of those people whose prosecutorial office has ceased in such a brutal anti-constitutional way! He signed the Deputy President of the Constitutional Court, Dr Bosa Nenadic, and among other things, said that the "constitutional appeal" concluded that it cannot be considered before the Constitutional Court, because in a concrete case a decision on the termination of the deputy and public prosecutor's duties has not been made. So the deputy attorney generals didn't even get a specific decision on their resolution, except for this notice. What legal situation do these people face now? They are out of work, with no opportunity to address the judicial authorities in Serbia! It's a sad reality, and it's 172 performers of the prosecution's office. In view of all this, the SRS has no reason to engage in details about the proposed amendments and additions to the Law. Therefore, no amendments to these provisions of the proposed amendments and additions have been tabled. Therefore, it is clear and regrettable when students of the Faculty of Law attend this session today, what they will learn or learn from the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2487	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Aleksandar Vukic, and it is also the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2488	If the Serbian Radical Party in 2001 did not support the draft law on judges, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the High Council of Justice, the Law on the Regulation of Courts, then there is no reason today to fix amendments that are bad. It got worse in the meantime. It became a change up there in 2002 and 2003! I would now not return to the criticisms of the former authorities who usurped that power, cleaned up the judiciary and implemented a lustration directed by Vladan Batic, but I must warn the public that in 2001, when the Law on Judges was passed, it was primarily the result of a party compromise that proposed by the Law and a party who cared about passing the Labour Act, so that in matters of professions, some professions and good solutions we can't talk about and we're just wasting time. In 2001, we warned the majority that she had entered a reckless adventure called the unconstitutional settlement of Serbia's judiciary, and that it was unconstitutionally best to be seen if each of the MPs took and read the provisions from Articles 95 to 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. These are provisions guaranteeing the independence and independence of courts and the independence of a special state body called the Public Prosecutor. The one who made changes to this law had to make sure that there was no "debt" in the Constitution, but "function" and it's a little weird that in the explanation, there was a rumor that someone was wrong when they were doing something on this bill. There is talk of a judge's office, and there is only one thing in these members to say is duty. So, since everyone swears to the constitutionality and legality and international standards that apply in this area, here's a little reminder of what standards the DOS government has laxtrated the court and additionally mutilated that it can't work: It can't be done by our court and trust yesterday neither the prosecution nor the courts can work, because three years of courts, prosecutors and the National Assembly have only dealt with the issue of elections and resolution. It was never about the relationship between a judge and a lawyer! It was never about the relationship between the D.A. and the D.A. and the D.A.! Between the court and some other informal power centers that allow pensioners to judge! Unfortunately, this law doesn't regulate it. Oh, that's a painful question. Staff policy in court is important, but not the most important in this phase. Well, then, if we go from the general Declaration of Human Rights, it's guaranteed that the competent court is independent, impartial, established under the law. If we go from the Civil and Political Rights Pact, then each individual is guaranteed to be tried within a reasonable period. A reasonable time limit is not a plea for disturbing an estate that lasts five years! It would probably have to be over, if not temporarily, that solution probably within a month to two months. It takes us five or six years, even 15 years, it doesn't matter! It is important that the United Nations considers that judges, in the extreme line, declare themselves on life, freedom, rights and responsibilities and good citizens. If we treat judges and courts only in terms of choice and resolution, then we have forgotten this important matter that the court is to conduct. It is always necessary to examine the role of judges in the judicial system, taking into account the importance of their choice, education and behaviour. When we talk about behavior, think about that famous Judges' Society and those judges that the former congregation majority, the decision to put out of force of the decision, or I annul some decisions, went back to judicial functions. There is Leposava Karamarkovic, and the co-ordinator of judges at the Supreme Court, Zoran Ivosevic. Zoran Ivošević, in charge of the items of Vojislav Seselj. It's the only man on the globe who doesn't recognize human rights!!- I'm sorry. Yes, it is! His rights are not recognised here, in the judicial system, or in the one you decided to cooperate with, in The Hague. The only man who can't have contact with his family, with his defenders, with his assistants, denied all rights!- I'm sorry. I only thank those professors of law who have had the courage to sign a petition and point to this problem. I don't want to read you any further those standards that are contained in the principles that guarantee the independence of the judiciary. These principles are not represented in our laws. Finally, if the Council of Justice's issues are not a constitutional category, then all these laws are unconstitutional to you, and I don't know how the Constitutional Court found that the Greater Personally Greater or High Council of Justice is something that knows the Constitution. If you wanted to move the questions of a judge or prosecutor outside the National Assembly, then, believe me, he had to change the Constitution first. While this constitution is, there is no better law than the one that was passed in 1991.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2489	The word has the People's MP Alexander Vukic; the remainder of the parliamentary group is 4.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when a set of judicial laws was passed and when we accepted the Institute of the High Council of Justice, the SRS had a number of criticisms at the expense of the regime, because they accepted the idea of the DSS! Today we still don't understand how and how you think it can work, how to get out of the blockade, but we're also afraid that this kind of cosmetic change won't bring any significant change compared to what we've had so far. And in the prosecution, the prosecutions, in courts, so it still works, and the only criterion, the only criterion, is the criteria of political similarity. The only criterion is the measure of political belonging, and we had party prosecutors and party courts. You had prosecutors who filed charges and demanded an investigation against those politicians, who were, of course, opponents of Boris Tadic's regime and others, only because they were giving bonuses to employed workers, and they weren't chasing those who bought out the biggest wealth or who had accumulated so much money that they could buy half the state, and they belong to their regime!- I'm sorry. I'm afraid that today we have a similar kind of selection, or "let them go, and some of ours come" -- and nothing will change. I listened to Minister Stojkovic with a smart argument, a very good argument - why should he remove those idiots from imaginary courts, some new ones, just enough to make pay differences, and that some of your political officials would get more important places, because of something special and I don't know what, that nowhere else in our legal system existed, doesn't exist in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But, as Mr Stojkovic put it, I would say with an "evidence" argument, that moment, or a few days after that, I guess, in fear of fierce hickeys and haranga, which is why it started in certain media, their representatives don't know anything about it. They've never read the Constitution, they've never seen a legal act, they don't know what a legal act is, let alone something else, but they've found themselves smart, because it's politically appropriate for them to attack it. Right after that, Mr. Stojkovic gave it up! I would only ask that this state and this government try, to the least, to ensure the independence of the courts, it is a constitutional category, and it has not worked so far; to try to ensure the independence of the prosecutions, because they cannot be independent by the Constitution, which was also not the case, because we have a criminal legacy of the previous regime. These laws do nothing and do nothing to improve the situation!- I'm sorry. Now there's one more thing I want to tell you, in these minutes and by what I have left. The Serbian Radical Party warns you, all of the authorities, and all those who support them, in one way or another, that authority, and those who are the authorities, are the opposition, that when it suits them, why it suits them, and supported by different NGOs, I am thinking of these Boris Tadic, and above all of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, to break up with "orcestrated and organized heifer" against the SRS and our presidential candidate, Tomislav Nikolic!- I'm sorry. I'll tell you why. In the last seven days, 153 texts against our presidential candidate and against the SRS have been published in the paper, with the harshest and wildest inventions. Although Tomislav Nikolic receives 70 and 80% of the votes from Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, your fake analysts, fictional experts, from Ljiljana Smajlovic, to not know who they speak daily, so that Tobož Shipari will look forward to defeating Tomislav Nikolic; that he will not recognise the European Union; that he will not accept America; how isolation will be! None of this will happen, and all you lie to is for nothing. You will be defeated by Tomislav Nikolic! But I'm warning you because of the next... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2491	Time for Ambassador Wolf, it's over, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2492	My time is not up, it's just coming, your time is up, but now I'm done!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2493	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2494	I'm going to finish now, Mr. Markovic, because I have a serious message for you, Mr. Markovic!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2495	That's all right, four minutes and 30 seconds left for the parliamentary group, please finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2496	I'll finish, Mr. Markovic, at 10 seconds you started interrupting me. I'll finish! I have two more sentences to tell you and an important message for you, Mr. Markovic. By April 28th, we'll follow what you're doing, see how ready you are to lie, what kind of haranga and hijka are you ready to lead. If you continue this way, in which you have done so until today, do not worry, the SRS will leave both the Serbian Assembly and all the boards, all the media, but we will be in the squares and streets of all the cities in Serbia, and then you will...! And then I recommend you - with lies, with herring, with hickey, you go on. [[Applause]] We will continue our work - on June 13th we will beat you fairly, honestly and knightly, and you will see what you will do by then. Everything you've done so far should serve you nothing but shame!- I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2497	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Stojkovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2498	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to give you answers only to certain questions you have asked, so I will try in turn. The question of the work of judges and prosecutors has been raised here, as far as professional and scientific action is concerned, without compensation. I think this is very well regulated. An example has been taken, of course, on BK TV. Not to mention these cases, but judges and prosecutors can deal in a professional area, for example, to write books in the area of law or comment. They have it, without any danger of jeopardizing the interests of the functions they perform. Normally, for those other jobs he's doing, which could potentially endanger that function, there's that regular procedure where it's estimated whether doing those jobs represents a collapsing with the office of judge or prosecutor. That's why you don't need to get into this. As for this notice of the Assembly - there is no reason to inform the Committee, if you remember, the Committee had previously decided on the selection and appointment, which the provision was expelled, and it addressed the Assembly directly, and the Assembly would give its working bodies to pass the procedure. As far as the court's independence is concerned, there's really one "accurate" thing and one "incorrect" thing here. The speaker said the courts were ruined by 2001, and that the other political furniture, it speaks of the destruction from 2001 to today. This very provision, where we introduce independence and the possibility for the High Council of Justice to decide on these key matters, we avoid this possibility of being the story of one policy that led to the collapse of these authorities, because courts are in a difficult situation, but they cannot bear responsibility for any wrong policies and in that period before 2001 and in this period after 2001. We want to eliminate this and prevent at least 2004 from having such a negative impact -- that after the "fall" calls for justice, not for those who have wronged them in this situation. It is said to be a small provision, so it says: instead of "Yugoslavic", it says "Serbia and Montenegro". We no longer have Yugoslav citizenship, I guess it's our turn to correct the law and say that a Yugoslav citizen can be a candidate for a judge. We have to do these things, no matter what "on the eye" seems a minor change, but basically, to me, this is gone. It has been said that I have said that laws that are applicable should be passed, so it is concluded that laws that are inapplicable are passed. I'm asking that at least in the future you don't get half a sentence out of context. It was about the next one. In that interview, I said that we are on the first step towards the European Union, i.e. We have entered the Council of Europe, and we need our regulations to set up that first step to be compatible with what we have signed, and that is the Charter of Human Rights. We cannot take the finished model and product of those countries that have reached the tenth step, that is to say, to the European Union and to enter as normally arranged - it will not be able to apply to us because we have neither material, nor human resources, nor technical solutions to it. That was an explanation when you're looking at the whole context, so it's not right to draw half a sentence. I've always been against it, because I'm afraid that's how I get away with it, and I think you can make it very easy from the Holy Scriptures to make a "mein camp". The issue of the High Council of Justice and the Personal Council as an unconstitutional category: I must say that there are facts that are not foreseen in the present Constitution, but that the courts will decide in fact - but there is no interference, as regards this Constitution, if both bodies are established with their own composition, which has more than 50% of judges; personally greater, even fully, meaning that the courts decide as the Constitution provides, and they determine their body, again, made up of judges. In the end, it's said here, it's repeated over and over again, and I don't want anything on my behalf being spoken and transmitted and made it to the press, and I didn't say that, that I changed the decisions -- what I said about the Special Department of the District Court in Belgrade, please, not the "special" court, because it doesn't exist. I did the interviews in that special department, in the apartment building, and I said, "You're judges, you're honorable people, so you're going to make a statement valid." The announcement came out completely different! I didn't want to derail, because I really have a lot of work to do, so every day I'd have to deal with someone. I will now read to you what Judge Radmila Dicic said on behalf of the Association of Judges of Serbia, who was present at the meeting and is the judge of the Special Department, and that was what was my position, she now convinced what should be done: "The president of the Society's Assembly is answerable to the question of journalistism in practice and the idea of the new Serbian Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic, whom should be abolished by the Special Department and allow any judge of the District Court in Belgrade to judge in the mentioned cases, said it was a viable project. Laws governing the jurisdiction of state authorities in the fight against organised crime have been passed under special circumstances. This regulation, as well as the Code of Criminal Procedure, has shortcomings that need to be corrected. Amendments to the law should allow judges to conduct the procedure more effectively and to carry out discipline in the process. It was precisely legal shortcomings that affected these trials to take place slower and harder than it should be. There is certainly an important issue and a matter of request for the exemption of judges, which should be resolved differently. Otherwise, most of the developed countries in practice against organised crime, had special departments, but were later returned to normal procedures." What I said, that the objections and what's holding the trial back, are now confirming these same judges. So the failures and weaknesses in those laws that have been passed have actually led to a slowdown in the process, the possibility of endless exceptions, etc. I thought all this was to be taken care of. There's only one thing missing here that I pointed out, that it's not right for you to have a court spokesman to come out and say, that the Italian court had such a court, that Italy had such a court, and the war crimes prosecutor said, so they shut them down after five years, because they ended up fighting organized crime. You can imagine, Italy ended up fighting crime! All I said was that they lifted those courts for a very clear reason. They have entered the European Union, and the Charter of Human Rights does not allow such a thing. Therefore, I did not declare myself politically, nor in any way, on the contrary, explain what needs to be removed, what needs to be done and how to do, and then there will be no distraction for every judge to judge. That was my explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2499	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of the joint principled search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2500	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, allow me to say once again on behalf of the SPS why the SPS parliamentary group will vote to amend and supplement these laws that the Assembly is considering. 1. We believe that changes and additions to these laws create legal institutional assumptions for the independence of the judiciary. 2. These changes remove the solutions they represent from the first order, i.e. the organisational and personal subjugation of the public prosecutor's office to the executive authority. 3. We believe that these amendments to the law create one attempt to make the profession dominant over politics in the last three years. 4. We think it's a good thing there's gonna be one review of the professional value of judges and prosecutors who've been elected to places that are covered by laws that are being amended. 5. We think it's a good thing that one expert check on the value of the High Council of Justice's composition will come. The Socialists believe that this set of laws was necessary because, unfortunately, on our skin, we felt best about what the situation in the judiciary looked like and how the laws were applied, because we felt it, experiencing all the bad things that had been in the judiciary for the past three years. Namely, the judiciary treated Serbian citizens and the Socialists in different ways -- there were citizens of the first and second order. Unfortunately, in this situation, we were citizens of the second order. And very specific: when it comes to the prosecution, we have filed criminal charges against the Socialists because of the already known abuse of official position. We had a case that representatives of earlier executives were urging prosecutors to file criminal charges against the Socialists -- "application, if anything stands, talk, and if not, something will be found". It was important that the public said that "the one and the one" was the subject of the prosecution's work, that criminal charges were filed. If you associate such cases, and unfortunately there were many, with what was happening in the field of information, with one control of the media, and with one situation that these reports had previously seen the light of day in the media than they were the subject of legal action, then we had a situation that these people had been advertised in advance and guilty and before any proceedings, before the court, let alone before the facts. What could the defendant have hoped for, if it had already been predetermined to him? They didn't play any role, they didn't have any value. We heard the example of the prosecution's work yesterday from the mouth of our colleague, Hranislav Peric, and that famous "spporet", because such things were invented, used as a reason to file criminal charges. And these criminal charges were then here, in the assembly procedure, the subject of blackmailing MPs, whether to resort to phantom parliamentary groups, phantom parties, or, of course, when it is time to vote on some laws, that perhaps this man would agree to classical pressure to vote for the needs of the previous government, or DOS. I cited the prosecution's example and yesterday through the case of the Attorney General from Backa Palanca, where the charges were made, I must say funny or incorrect, and professionally completely disputed, created conditions for man to be eliminated from work that he does. "The target justifies the means," and there was nothing to worry about. The negative work of the judiciary, or judiciary, was seen through examples we heard yesterday. I have to mention the example of my colleague, Živojin Stefanovic. This is the example of double criteria and the double position of the Socialists and the treatment of the Socialists as citizens of the second order. His house was burned down on October 5, 2000. Three and a half years have passed and to this day it is not the subject of a trial, although man has done everything he has to do, or lawyers who do it; the whole of Leskovac knows who did it, but he can't because it's a socialist and what it is about a prominent citizen, Leskovec, but above all, about a socialist. It's a criterion why the judiciary doesn't work. Or cases where the Socialists are subject to court, then, unfortunately, they've been very expressive. I mention this because it was something that was an integral part of the work of the judiciary. I will not mention all the bad things that have also been related to the work of the judiciary for the past three years and which have been objective and were the reason why these laws have been changed and complemented. I mentioned yesterday, the conduct of the executive and commentary of court decisions, etc. So there was a need to change the situation in the judiciary, and I think these laws are a good step to make things better. One logical question arises – why is there so much fuss in the media about this set of law in the area of justice, and who is behind it? I must say that, in our opinion, the SPS MPs, first of all, are those elected under the laws that are being changed, at a time of emergency, who have been chosen against the provisions of the Law on Judges, which have been elected even in a way that the Serbian Constitutional Court has challenged. It is about people who essentially present the fist of the previous DOS in the judiciary, who know that they only came here with the help of DOS and DOS and who know that they will now be subject to expert verification. Personal changes were both in 2001 and 2002, but it was obviously not enough for DOS, so it was necessary to make changes in 2003 and bring in people who could provide what was DOS's interest. Apparently, a number of people in the judiciary, prosecutors and judges, however, had this level of professional and human relations, through which he did not want to cross over for political interests, and they needed to be changed. That's why it's going to change the law. That's why we have a situation where, most of all, these people are in public talking about the independence of the judiciary, constitutionality, respect for the law. There is one logical reason – why so much public talk? We think the reasons are very prosaic. When they tried to represent themselves as victims, and in fact they weren't, they were the executioners of a DOS policy, and now they're trying to represent themselves as someone who becomes the victim of these changes in the judiciary, and of course they're not. Secondly, in order not to be the subject of the evaluation of their colleagues from the judiciary, the more they talk about themselves, the attempt of a wall is being made to protect them from their colleagues. This so - called story of his threat is also intended to forget all the bad things they've been doing for the past three years. This set of laws - amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, Public Prosecutor's Office and the High Council of Justice, is certainly not ideal. He's got his own shortcomings, too. Maybe in some parts, he stepped halfway, and surely there was a need for them to change further, laws, and to make sure that the judiciary, the judiciary and the prosecution were independent. We think they are a good step in that direction, and we think it is good for both the judiciary and the institutions in Serbia. We, MPs of the SPS, will therefore vote for these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2501	Is there another representative, or the president of the parliamentary group, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Does anyone want to use their right under Article 89? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of Justice. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Judges (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Radojle Bukvic, Bosko Ristic, Milan Markovic and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. At a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Milan Markovic withdrew the amendment to Article 8. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Bosko Ristic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Ristic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2502	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed an amendment to Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, which reads: "in the event of the court's suspension, the judge continues to carry out his duties in the court that took over the jurisdiction of the suspended court". So every judge will go to that court for the cases. Where the court assumes certain jurisdiction and cases of a suspended court, the judges will go after cases in a newly formed court. This is a more quality, fairer and more stable provision than what the bill offers, as otherwise it could happen that a certain authority puts judges in a different position in an incorrect manner and does not allow them to continue to perform judicial functions in the respective court and in an appropriate manner. The abolition of courts can take place in two cases: if the Law amending the regulation of courts and the abolition of certain types of courts - courts of general jurisdiction and special courts. If a court no longer exists, and the case under a particular case falls within the jurisdiction of another type of court, the judge shall be provided with the continuity of the judicial duty by continuing to carry out the same tasks. The suspension of the court may also occur if the territorial jurisdiction of the court is changed, and the court of a particular kind shall also be responsible for the territory of the court which is suspended. In these cases, according to the law itself, the judge shall ensure that the judicial duty is carried out in a court of the same kind and rank. Otherwise, the proposed solution set out in the Amendment to the Law that the judge will refer to the same species, the same degree, is impossible! There are courts of different rank and the same degree. Therefore, this is both a legal and a fundamentally inconclusive decision. I would like to point out one more general point in relation to what is proposed by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, which is that the presidents of the courts are being reduced from the mandate and, in essence, all the presidents of Serbia are being resolved. This means that the current authority wants to reduce the term of office of the presidents of the courts by amending a provision and to put it in a position to appoint the presidents of the courts for its term of office and thus to exercise direct influence. I have not had the opportunity to explain in the morning part another position in relation to the resolution of the President of the Courts, because there was no opportunity in the Rules of Procedure, but since I am running out of time and according to this amendment, I will use the next amendment to give one addition to the opposition of the proposal to be resolved by the President of the Courts by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2503	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is for Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2504	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have proposed an amendment to Article 3 which reads: "Article 27, paragraph 2, is amended and reads as follows: "The judge can carry out scientific and professional work, with compensation". I'll tell you why I offered this amendment right away. Practically, he means the same thing that was written in the Law on Judges. Thus far, the Law on Judges has stated that, "exceptionally" the judge can perform scientific and professional action, with compensation. It's obvious that I only suggested that the word "exceptionally" be abolished. But what did the government suggest? The government proposed the following Article 3, which reads: "Article 27(2) is deleted. So far, pages 3 and 4 are becoming pages 2 and 3. Article 3 adds Article 4 which reads: "A judge may, without anyone's approval, engage in scientific and professional activity, with compensation." "I must tell you that this seems a bit raving to me, that it seems legal inconsistencies and that it seems more politically promotional to me. Of course, I think this is all due to the desire to mask what follows in the transitional and final provisions, which is that, practically, only one provision, one member or better to say by one member of the proposed law, is to be replaced by the judge, by the president of the courts, exclusively on a political basis. I therefore propose that, as far as possible, we make repairs to this law and I suggest that you accept this amendment, so that we do not enter something that is rogue and that is pure political marketing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2505	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2506	This amendment is a reason to point out this failure that you are trying to maintain in this law. The judge has an obligation to perfect himself professionally. As he will apply the Constitution and the law, he does not decide as much his security as his expertise. You in law have this notion of security, which is completely undefined. Then, function, duty - wrongly interpreted and set in principle. Then, you have a problem with the term working century. With judges and prosecutors, there is no concept of a working century, but "years of age" when retired, retirement internship, so you've done the whole story around the working century, which is probably an unconstitutional category for judges and prosecutors. Not to point to any violations of international standards guaranteeing the independence of judges and courts. Since this debate on the amendments of those who have now remembered, about, what should be independence and independence of the court, last year mutilated the law, and discussed today the Law that was adopted in 2001 and which is certainly unconstitutional in a narrow interpretation of the Constitution, widely observed, and you cannot find coverage there either, but since it was supported by both the SPS and the DSS and the complete DOS, no one in the Constitutional Court was involved in that, and, however, could not, because some judges there were elected by the power of the Decision on their resolution. Probably, until a new constitution is passed, we won't have an acceptable Constitutional Court, because this is a party. Each of these judges can be told which party belongs, which one has proposed and whose interests extends. Enough to say - if a party initiates proceedings before the Constitutional Court, within three to five days the proceedings shall be completed. If he submits an SRS proposal, two years must wait, attitudes are required. That's the situation with that Oil Transport Regulation. The court hasn't called yet, and we left in 2001. It's our party constitutional court. Since it's illusory to talk about the Law that missed the topic, and even more devastatingly to talk about amendments that fix something that the amendment applicant has ruined for the past two years, the SRS does not want to participate in this! We're going to leave today's session because there's no need to waste time considering what's wrong, what's worse, what's greater damage, what's less damage! Principlely, as in 2001, when we were trying to tell you the amendments that this job was not a good job. All those involved in this business, not only are lustrating judges and courts, but they are destroying this country's judicial system. The DOS destroyed all the institutions in this country in three years. Tell me which institution works, which one works! No, it's all ruined! Instead of returning to the borders of constitutionality, legality and normal, we are now going back to what was the shooting of 2001. In this, the SRS does not see its place, and that is why we are leaving this session of the National Assembly!- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2507	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2508	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I support the amendment of MP Milan Markovic, because I believe he is good. I must say, I cannot accept the motion for a solution that the judge can, without anyone's permission, deal with scientific and professional activity, with compensation. That would mean that the judge could be a consultant in some law firm and that the lawyer who's acting in front of the court, in which the judge works, pays him compensation, because there's no limit. In the previous legal solution, a word was added that says that, "extremely", the judge can deal with certain professional affairs with compensation, which requires approval not to deal with incompatible transactions. In this way, we will be in a position for individual judges to enter into matters that are suspicious of nature and in which they are in conflict of interest. I would also like to answer to the previous speaker, that the current Law on the Election of Judges was just the DSS, and that it was true that other parties also opposed certain solutions, because they felt that this was not the way in which work in Serbia's courts was properly arranged. It is clear that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges had only one objective, and that is, the resolution of judges, elected last year, the President of the Courts, in one anti-constitutional way. Judges shall be dismissed under current law on a proposal from the Administrative Court. However, that provision was put out of force by the Constitutional Court. - This law stipulates that the presidents of the court are resolved in the same way as the judges. That provision has not entered into force. Therefore, the presidents of the courts will be resolved on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, but only after the law has entered into force. The only provision that had constitutional legal basis and justification was that the presidents of the courts were elected in the same way as the judges. In this way, it is used to cloud and disavow both citizens and people employed in the judiciary, with the aim of replacing the Supreme Court president, Mrs Sonja Brkic and four other Serbian court presidents who were elected last year. I would also like to say that the reduction in the duration of the President of the Court of Justice in Serbia is also a solution with a delayed deadline. So this government wants to fully control the Serbian judiciary, shortened its mandate to the presidents and thus resolved them only with a delayed legal consequences. They think they will be able to re-elected all the presidents of the courts for their authorities and to directly politicise their choice in the way they predicted. There must be a personal change in courts, but only based on professional selection. Professional selection must have criteria and criteria. I have proposed a concept solution to assess the judges' work during the past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2509	After the ad? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2510	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is the essence of this amendment, in a technical and legal sense, can be accepted. However, with experience from practice that it was happening that the presidents of the courts or prosecutors did not allow judges or prosecutors to deal with scientific and professional activity, it caused problems that they could not deal with the work, although they had a basis for it. In this way, it is only clear that the superior cannot forbid him to engage in scientific activity. However, given the previous exhibitor, it is evident that the intensity of not allowing these people, but was misunderstood. It is understood as performing certain commercial activities, i.e. as performing certain tasks that are in collegiate with the exercise of the judicial or public prosecutorial functions. As for the previous speaker and his views on expertise, just one question: is the current Supreme Court president an expert in being head of the KV Council of the Supreme Court of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2512	The work of a judge in an ad hoc office isn't scientific work. The judges have the right to co-operate with scientific journals, to hold exercises in colleges, so that's what they thought. Working in a law firm isn't scientific work. By the way, I don't think that with the 2003 amendments to the 2003 Law there was more privatisation of the judiciary in Serbia at a time of war called emergency!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2513	Thank you. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2514	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just said a different concept of assessing the work of judges over the past period, because I believe that if the criteria and criteria of the Supervisory Board are not established by law, it leaves the possibility for volunteering and the division of judges to be similar and inadequate, and thus to carry out the selection in the judiciary. And that's inadmissible. That means putting the judiciary directly under party control. According to my proposal, the judge's work would be evaluated once a year. The work of a judge who during the calendar year worked less than six months, is not estimated for that year. The work of the Supreme Court judge is not subject to evaluation. The assessment of the judge's work is of importance for selecting a judge in a senior court and for dissuading a judge. In assessing the work of the judge, it takes into account the expertise, awareness and well-being in solving cases, respect for procedural deadlines, success in the performance of judicial affairs in general, as well as published professional and scientific papers. The criteria for the judge's assessment determines Serbia's Supreme Court. In the way it is now proposed that the supervisory board elected exclusively by the Supreme Court judges does not guarantee that the evaluation will be conducted in accordance with the law and in accordance with the criteria that have been generally accepted in the countries of developed democracy. Also, in order for the judicial authority to be fundamentally independent, and the judicial authority, in my opinion, is implemented through the trial and proceedings of judges in certain cases, where they are solely based on the law and on their expertise and on the fact that they make measuring decisions, it is necessary to elect the highest authorities of the judicial authority on the basis of the judicial self-government. The High Council of Justice should be elected in direct and secret elections between judges of all courts, all kinds and all ranks. Also, from the ranks of prosecutors of all the prosecutions of all the territories. In this way, both territorial and degree or ranking representation of judges and prosecutors working in the judiciary would be ensured. This would give full legitimacy to the judicial authority and to the highest judicial authorities. In this way we would, with established criteria and criteria, come to a professional selection. In this way, we will come to the situation that political oligarchies or their remains remain in the judicial system, i.e. in Serbia's judiciary, agree to make a pact or to make a selection by party or by party definition for the purposes of certain parties in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2515	Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2516	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, but I had to report for this amendment. This is a classic example where the writer missed the topic. The amendment does not apply to what has been proposed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, because Articles 40a and 40b have been proposed to educate the Supervisory Board in the Supreme Court to control judicial cases. Very clearly, the Supervisory Board which controls court cases, which is indicated in Article 40b of the position of the 1st amendment of the honourable MP, is required to assess judges once a year. According to the amendment, I come to the conclusion that this evaluation would be like the proposal and work of the Ministry of Education, I guess through some school or working meetings, and that assessment would probably lead to judges subject to that school evaluation. There was no such proposal in the law, nor was there. This is, to say the least, a revolutionary proposal, but it is not the place for this amendment where it is proposed. This is some kind of change for some deep, deep, deep justice reform where judges would be judged! So, I underline that the motioner did not require, nor could he "keep water" the proposal to evaluate the judge's work once a year, as proposed by the amendment, but proposed amendments and additions to the education of the supervisory board that would control court cases, which is a completely different matter. I remind you, for the sake of citizens, that this supervisory board would work based on its own knowledge, based on complaints or citizens' initiative. So, the vast majority of judges working in accordance with the law and savingly, wouldn't be the subject of grading. I underline that judges are not evaluated but cases, and only if certain actions contrary to the law are observed in the case can it possibly come to the judge's assessment and work. So, the initiative can come from citizens, and it can also be from this supervisory board formed at the Supreme Court and this way will significantly increase the efficiency of the courts. Therefore, this amendment should not be accepted because it is contrary to the very intensity of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2517	The word has a People's MP Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2518	Dear President, dear colleagues, I very much appreciate the presentation of the predecessors under this amendment, but I think the amendment is very good and I don't think it's a colleague of Bosko Ristic, who submitted the amendment, missed the subject, nor is it that he didn't understand the intensity of the promoter. We welcome the idea of the Supervisory Board itself, as we said in the principle discussion, but I will read to you Article 40b of position 2: "After the final review of the court case, the Committee may, before the Great personal council, initiate a procedure for dissuade the judge." So, the very idea of the legislator is that it is not only an assessment of the case by appeal of parties or self-initiative, but also the proposer himself, the Ministry of Justice, wanted it to have in some way the proper consequences on the status and on the work of judges acting in these cases. Therefore, our idea is that only this part-round work of the Supervisory Board is more elaborated to allow for more precise, objective evaluation of the work of judges. We therefore insist on this amendment and suggest that you adopt it, whether it seems revolutionary or seems reformable. It would be good if it were reformal, because we have all agreed together that the situation in the judiciary for the past 15-20 years is certainly not what we want as MPs and as citizens of Serbia at all. So I invite you to accept this amendment anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2519	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does Mr. Markovic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2520	If it's article six, I'll tell you what's going on right now. That's what we discussed on the Justice Committee. In fact, our opinion is that, regardless of how talented the judges are, or how talented, the trainees are, judgely, then expert associates, no matter how talented they are, how smart and valuable they are, simply, can hardly, in a relatively short time, master such extensive matter as is the matter that happens in ordinary life, which we are under some litigation, and especially the one relating to guilt, the decision on rights and, in particular, the freedom of citizens. Therefore, we felt that this deadline, in a way of preparation, would need to be extended after passing the judicial exam in order to gain more knowledge, more experience in order to decide tomorrow on rights, on freedom, on the duties of citizens. It is not pleasant when someone who has only two years of experience after passing a judicial exam. We think that by adopting one of these solutions, we can gain a lot from the quality of our judiciary, which will later be explicitly expressed in a number of rulings that survive in the second degree.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2521	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does Mr. Ristic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2522	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a continuation of the concept of the way of professional selection that needs to be done in the judiciary. So there is no dispute between people who follow the work of the judiciary, that in the judiciary the situation is not satisfactory, above all, because of the very long duration of disputes and cases, which have a criminal connotation, but it is a multi-layer problem. One problem is the connection of individual judges with individual political or financial centres of power, which is far less a problem than the intricacies of courts. So in the Serbian judiciary, indeed, there are a very large number of correct and high-quality judges, but it is also a fact that there is no system by which judges would be properly built, from the arrival of young people as trainees, from how they work as professional associates, to the election of a judge who would be a mentor from the ranks of senior court judges. He would follow his work, direct him to professional and scientific training, help him design scientific papers, analyze the subject and thus raise efficiency. The fact is that there are a very large number of cases awaiting judgment, where the hearings are closed, and there are no verdicts, but there is also a very large system failure to execute already tried cases, i.e. in the execution of judgments. In order to avoid all of this, we need to make a change in the way we monitor the quality of the work of judges and how we monitor the progress of judges through the judiciary. The proposal is for the High Council of Justice to obtain data in the selection of judges to judicial functions, data for the assessment of the professionality and dignity of candidates, from the authorities and organisations in which the candidate worked in the legal profession. If the candidate has performed legal tasks as an independent activity, the necessary information shall be supplied by the applicant, with a request. The High Council of Justice determines on the basis of which data can assess the professionality and dignity of candidates for the exercise of judicial duties. The High Council of Justice shall provide the court for which the candidate is elected and, in the light of his opinion, on the professionality and dignity of the candidates, which shall be determined by the session of all judges. The proposed amendment shall specify how data are obtained for the assessment of the professionality and dignity of candidates for judicial duty. This refers to the progress of the candidate from the lower court to the high court. The explanation offered with the Government's proposal is unacceptable and mainly concerns candidates coming from the judicial order. In this way, there is no insight into the work, quality and expertise of those candidates who come outside the judiciary. We will all agree that all candidates must have an equal opportunity to assess quality and expertise, and an equal passing on the basis of the pre-determined criteria in the judiciary. In this way, with the assessment of the work so far before progress, with the "evaluation" of what is the work of the candidates so far, criteria and criteria for progress and professional selection will be provided. Professional selection in the judiciary is necessary. I support it and I think all members of the Serbian Parliament support it. That's why I think the solutions offered are both possible and constitutionally and legally acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2523	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojla Bukvic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are. There's an MP named Radojla Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2524	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am not a lawyer, but an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a Law on Judges, that is, Article 44. The Law on Judges, I proposed for purely practical reasons and the experience of the company in which I work, the FAS of Aryl, which conducted judicial proceedings against certain executives and individual companies in the period 1991-1994, when the factory was damaged for, somewhere, about 4 million marks. I suggested an amendment to delete the word "worthyness". If we know that the word "worthy" means loyalty, obedience, etc. and may also mean a political similarity, which is why I suggested that when electing and appointing the judge take account of opinions on the moral, professional and working qualities of the candidates. From previous experiences, which the company acquired from the proceedings it conducted, we concluded that the judges in the past period, and the courts, were worthy, or loyal, and that the judiciary was influenced by a particular political structure, especially in the 1990-1994 period when certain people from the Zlatibor County, from the JUL political party, had a major influence on the judiciary. In order for this to not happen in the future, I have proposed a practical technical amendment to Article 44, instead of the current article 44, which reads: "The High Council of Justice provides data and opinions on the professionality and dignity of candidates. Data and opinions are obtained from the authorities and organisations in which the candidate worked in the legal profession; it should stand, according to my proposal, only a recast: "The High Council of Justice provides data and opinions on the moral, professional working qualities of candidates. Data and opinions shall be obtained from the authorities and organisations in which the candidate has worked in the legal profession, and for the candidates coming from the courts it is mandatory to obtain the opinion of the Court's session on the professional and working results of the candidates. "We have also had an example in the past that the courts and judges are truly worthy, especially if they take into account the procedures that are followed around the Ibar Highway, the "antante" of Vuk Draskovic in Budva, "Ivan Stambolic", "Slavka Curuvija" and others. In order for there to be no such thing in the future, judges and courts must be both moral, professional and capable, and not worthy and politically similar, as it has been in the past. These days, radicals have been "salting" our brains here and talking about their views, about standing up for the citizens of Serbia (and I'm sorry they came out), but today they are practically boycotting the work of this parliament. And we know that in the past, too, it has been those who have influenced our judges and courts to be worthy of us, so I hope that the citizens of Serbia will be able to appreciate and not vote for their candidate, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2525	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Živorad Smiljanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2526	Dear Members, I support Article 7th. to occasionally control the working, moral and professional capacity of judges. I will explain only one tragic case, which took place on 13 May 2000, when the President of the government of Vojvodina Bosko Perošević was killed at the Novosad Fair. At that tragic moment, the two of us were visiting the fair. When we finished the tour he stopped at the exit of the last hall for a moment, to telephone, and I took two or three steps and echoed the shot. I turned around and saw Bosko Perošević fall!- I'm sorry. The killer didn't run past me, but came back and ran through the whole hall, passed the entire security detail, which was then around Tomic, but a young militiaman caught him, shot him down and caught him! At the first hearing, the killer literally stated, with the presence of an investigative judge and witnesses: "I could have killed whoever I wanted. I chose Bosko Perošević because he is the youngest, most prospective and the biggest opponent of our policy, and that's why I killed him." They found a drawing of where he was about to commit murder, a path where he was going to run, and a kill prep, where a bullet in a gun that had a longer tube, only one bullet, was cut, made a cross and made a dum-dum bullet out of it -- by shooting Bosca Peroshević in the back of his head he actually, which the medics would say, "decapitated" and currently killed. So he cold-bloodedly committed the murder he was planning and said why he killed him. The trial's been carried out...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2527	Please return to the amendment. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2528	That's why I support the amendment, that the moral quality of the judge is checked. The judge, who tried at the time of the lustration carried out by Vladan Batic, when judges were persecuted, when 90% of the president of the courts were removed and expelled, practically a man from whom there was always hatred, a man who probably has evil blood in him, because only evil people can persecute and replace how he did it, and to bring in the listeners, the trial ended in the following way: "The judge sentenced the killer to permanent treatment!"- I'm sorry. All the time in the process, no moment at all, I, as a key witness, who was standing next to Bosko Perosevic, was invited. She condemned him to "sustainable treatment." To the question of journalists - how can a murderer be tried without any of the witnesses being called, she has easily responded - can't politicians be witnesses?- I'm sorry. Therefore, my question is, for the sake of justice and truth, I am sorry that the minister does not have here, that the procedure can be renewed and that the judge can at all judge, who tried, not by holding on to judge ethics, nor by morals, nor by profession, but only by being courted by the minister of that time, who lustrated the judges!- I'm sorry. So this is one of the tragic cases where judges are tried when they're under lustration. I hope that these laws will really be independent and judge by law and by judicial ethics, and I will insist that this procedure be renewed and that judgment be passed in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2529	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 8. The amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Ambassador Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2530	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed an amendment to Article 8th century 2, 3rd and 4th which should read: "The People's Assembly is elected by the judge on a reasoned proposal from the High Council of Justice, which contains more candidates than the number of judges elected. If more than five candidates have applied for a published advertisement, the High Council of Justice shall propose at least three candidates to elect a judge to a designated judge. In the event that a smaller number of candidates are registered, the High Judicial Council shall propose at least two candidates to a designated judicial post, unless only one candidate is registered. If none of the proposed candidates are elected, the High Judicial Council re-establishs the proposal with new candidates. "What is the essence of this amendment? According to the Constitution and the law, the National Assembly elects and relieves judges and according to this law the presidents of the courts. In order for the Assembly to really elect judges and presidents of the courts, for that to be a choice, then there must be at least two candidates to define ourselves as one of at least two candidates. So far, practice has shown that the High Judicial Council has delivered only one proposal for each court seat, which was otherwise not even reasoned. This means that the Committee for Justice and Administration has received a proposal from the High Council of Justice without reason, which is why this very candidate has been elected, I think of all those who have been reported, or among all the candidates reported, which makes it better, better quality and therefore merits our trust, to entrust him with such a significant function, to bring judgments on behalf of the people and to decide on it. Thus, this would improve the quality of reception and election in the judicial seats, as the Assembly would have a reasoned proposal which is confidential. If we do not agree, unless the Assembly agrees with such a choice, it may return the High Council of Justice to a different decision. I believe that the Assembly has the right to take into account the candidates, the biographies, the reasons why and in what way and what methodology the elections have taken place, in order to define itself. I also believe that a solution has been offered in this law, that according to the law, the presidents of the courts are being changed, just in contrast with this legislative proposal, that the Assembly chooses and relieves judges and presidents of the courts in the same way. If the government advocates that the Assembly elects and resolves judges namedly on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, it is not clear why it also proposes that an indefinite number of judges be resolved, the President of the Courts only for the reason that he is elected before the same Assembly over a period of time. The question arises - in order for these resolved judges, or the president of the courts, to exercise their labour rights. The law does not directly apply and exercise the right to make decisions, because it must be based on the judicial authority as laid down in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2531	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2532	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we need no one to fear the Serbian Parliament's zealous court. Every time someone is on the agenda of this Parliament to be elected or resolved, it should be an honor and it should not be afraid of any judge or judge president, if by the law we are now considering here, I mean amendments and additions to the law, which comes before this Parliament to talk about him, there should be no pain, but should be honored. I'm in favour, and last time I said that political parties have a consistent relationship with a particular issue, not that they're changing it depending on whether they're government or opposition. We've had opportunities to attend, I mean for the past two or three years, in a few cases, an extremely uncritical choice in several places both in courts and in the prosecutions. While prosecutors were elected in Parliament, I remind you briefly, I tried to challenge the election of the district attorney, because I proved before this parliament that he had no business capacity and that it was not enough criteria that the secretary or former DS secretary was in Chačka, and that in time, while DOS was a single coalition, I was able to convince 94 MPs that he should not be elected, unfortunately, with 11 votes of distinction! I advocate that all that is elected and all that is important for the state, if possible, to come to this Parliament and to the court of the MPs, because it is the court of the public and if we fight to make it more here, we will have less trouble in the state. So, I understand the amendment that was submitted and I understand his explanation, but I was simply obliged to say this. Each of us has 15,000 voters, each of us has 30,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia behind us, and each of us must have the power to present that responsibility in this parliament, for this speaker and in public events anywhere. I call upon you, Mr. Minister, and all others, whenever possible and when something is not clear and whenever it is possible to check, then let it be checked, and that, in front of the MPs and in the National Assembly or through the committees of inquiry, because none of them will have any harm, and the citizens will benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2533	Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2534	I would support this amendment, for a simple reason, which I think, if there are more candidates that the solution is simply more democratic, and given that the National Assembly is choosing, then the choice involves choosing between a larger number of candidates. Otherwise, the National Assembly "confirms" or "refuses". And that's why I think this solution is more acceptable, for the simple reason that we would have the opportunity to discuss candidates, to give our opinions and really choose a better candidate for whom most of us are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2535	Anyone else want a word? Here's a word for Parliamentarian Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2536	Dear People's MPs, I will be brief, all said by my colleague Bosko Ristic. I think this amendment, which can significantly affect the dignity of this Assembly, is, in the end, to be no longer under discussion -- whether or not the constitutional solution provided for by the 2001 Law. Indeed, we need to enable the National Assembly to choose, not in practice, to confirm or refuse to confirm that choice of the High Council of Justice. So we have to allow the National Assembly to choose between several candidates, and that can't hurt, it can only be good-it will simply contribute to improving the quality of justice itself and to precisely determining responsibility for bad proposals. As a member of the Justice Committee, I have to remind my colleagues, and they've been involved in all of this, and we've been very often disappointed, and also offended by the way the High Council of Justice has been communicating with the Justice Committee in the first place. Namely, they arrived very often, it was not just the case, it was also the case with executive authority, but very often the dry National Assembly received proposals without any explanation, and that we were practically reduced to a simple voting machine that needed to confirm or reject something. If we want to be, to restore dignity to the National Assembly, in this sense we need to support this amendment; we need to insist that there are more candidates and that there is a comparison between candidates who claim to be the bearers of the highest judicial functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2537	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you are, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2538	This is what this amendment is about, therefore, that the Proposer amends Article 52 of the existing Law, Article 2, which provides for the President of the Court to inform the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia in writing and the committee responsible for the National Assembly of which the judges and presidents of the directly lower courts are to complete the working age next year and when this will happen. I think it's completely unwarranted, so the motionary wants to delete here in attitude 2 the words "and the committee responsible for the National Assembly". I really don't see any reason why the National Assembly's competent board wouldn't have any insight into the age structure of the judiciary. What's wrong with us being informed that the National Assembly's competent board is also informed of how many judges we have before retirement! There's nothing wrong with that. It does not affect the independence of the judiciary. Or maybe we're going back to the story that there are really a few members here who should just cover what was basic, what was contained in Article 15, which is, to the presidents of the courts elected under the 2003 Law, that their duties as president of the court for which they were elected ceases. So we are members of the National Assembly, MPs, members of the Justice Committee. Please accept our amendment. No one is asking us anywhere to give up that right to know what the age structure of the judiciary is. It's a matter of logic. I really ask you to accept this amendment, because the question is, what are we going to do on the Justice Committee?- I'm sorry. As things stand now, the Justice Committee, definitely in terms of its role, has lost all its authority and there is no reason for us to form this Committee more and more as a National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2539	Please, the word has a minister of justice in the government, Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2540	Just one explanation, because there's something going on again that I don't think is right. If the Justice Committee were to be directly informed, he could ask the question at the session tomorrow and eventually resolve the man without meeting the condition. That's why he goes to the Supreme Court president, he's obliged personally to notify 30 days before the end, so the Personal Council assesses whether it's really okay or maybe there's been some kind of abuse of a president and it informs the Assembly. He comes to the Committee, it's not true he's not coming, he's just trying to stop himself here, if the Committee were to directly inform the President of the municipal court, the Committee could put it in session -- that a man should be resolved without conditions. So, valid control is provided, and normally goes to the Assembly's notice, which is a duty to do. That leaves 30 days to check whether that information is correct or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2541	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2542	A member of the applicable Law provides specifically for the completion of the working century, including in that provision, that the president of the Supreme Court and the committee of the National Assembly are to be informed in writing about the fulfilment of the conditions. The bill proposes that the words "The People's Assembly" be deleted. My amendment stipulates that the words "competent Committee of the National Assembly" are deleted, but that it stands, "The National Assembly". My solution is for the reason that according to the Constitution, one of the responsibilities of the National Assembly is "the selection and resolution of judges", so I felt that, in addition to informing the Supreme Court, I.e. The President of the Supreme Court, it would be his turn to inform the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2543	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2544	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, under Rule 82, paragraph 2 requires one third of the MPs to be in the O.R. so that a debate can be held. I find it incorrect, people tried to write amendments, speak in front of an empty room. Please determine the quorum!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2545	I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2546	I have submitted an amendment to Article 10(2) and a solution in the law is given as follows: "The proceedings are being initiated by the President of the Court of Justice, the President of the High Court of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Minister of Justice." I suggested my amendment that the words "Minister of Justice" be deleted from this legal code, because I don't think the minister should have this authority, or I think it's inadmissible to oversee the executive authority's status as judges. That's why I suggest that the words "Minister in charge of the judiciary" be deleted and that the rest remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2547	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2548	I also have an amendment to article 10, and I'm pulling it, so there's no need for you to read it. I join the amendment of my colleague, Leila Ruzdic. I believe that the application for an independent judiciary has not been consistently implemented through this proposal to amend and supplement the law, because this proposal provides that the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary can initiate proceedings for the resolution of judges because of an unconscious and unprofessional exercise of judicial functions, or if there are conditions, as we still call them, for the completion of the working century. So we don't think that's in line with what we talked about, what you were talking about when you proposed this law. We think it would be extremely correct for you to accept this amendment and that the part relating to the minister, or to his authority -- that he can propose a solution when there are reasons for it, to delete that part, because it is a direct interference and supervision, which is not in line with our joint commitment, by the minister, by the executive authority to the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2549	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2550	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I believe that such a solution gives great authority to the minister of justice who can initiate proceedings for the resolution of judges, although it has not been established that the minister of justice is coming up with information on which judge the proceedings should be initiated. Criteria, criteria and only the conduct and information of the justice minister is not defined by legal regulations. A norm like this leaves the possibility of volunteering and leaves the possibility that the executive authority will press the judges, and that can initiate procedures for resolution, exercise control over the judiciary. Judges must be independent and independent in their work, both according to other branches of government or other authorities, and have internal independence for judges who judge in lower-level courts to be essentially independent of judges and president of higher-level courts. In order for this to happen, a different concept would have to be set up by a judicial organisation, a judicial authority organisation. This will be said when we discuss in particular the Law on the High Council of Justice, because only if fundamental legitimacy and trust in judicial authorities, which assess judges during their election and resolution, can be obtained essentially independent justice. In this way, there is the possibility and the danger of politicising the judiciary, and the DS is truly fighting against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2551	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The MP has withdrawn this amendment, so there is no debate about it. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you are, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2552	My colleagues and colleagues, here's my proposal. Already in the very explanation of one of these amendments and the additions of the laws and the proposer himself - the Ministry of Justice has cited as one danger, which exists in us, which has been observed in some other countries, that this independent judiciary in some way becomes something we would not want to do, that is, standing and conservatively closed, without any control and without any influence, as logical and normal that it exists in democratic societies. I don't mean the influence of other branches of government, but the influence of public opinion, of what the state is doing under that judiciary. Of course, there should now be some instruments to establish some controls within this branch of government, as it exists in the legislative authority, as it exists in the executive government. Of course, if we don't want that control to be the control of the executive or legislative authority over the judicial authority, - and we won't, because we're supporters of the principle of division of power, then we have to make such mechanisms that control exists within the judicial authority itself. By amendment to Article 12, I tried to promote one of the principles or elements that could affect that kind of control, which is that the President of the Court cannot be elected to the same office, for the president of the same court, more than twice. It's nothing new. Such restrictions exist for many functions both with us and abroad. The reasons are more or less known to everyone. There's no need for someone to perform one function eight, ten, fifteen, twenty years. It's a waste of a man. The question is, what are the motives after eight years of work? On the other hand, it may be a source of certain abuses. It is possible that for those eight or more years of their presidency in a court of law, someone might also make some kind of oligarchy that would rule that court in a way that we certainly don't want. If he is, on the other hand, extremely good, he will advance to the court of higher rank, so perhaps even in that court of higher rank he will become the president of the court, so he will go to the court of even higher rank, and he may also become the president of the court there. So we're just preventing something we don't want, which can happen badly, and we're not undoing anything good. On the other hand, you should give more people a chance. We have extremely good and high-quality judges and many of them could be extremely good judge presidents. - I'm sorry. Let's establish that limit! Let's say that this new force that appears every eight or four years, this new energy, can't go beyond twice as far, not because the predecessor was bad, but because the new one is always better, because it's a changeable principle. Changeability is not a principle in itself, exchangeability is a value that contributes to improving quality in all areas, as well as in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2553	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2554	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in Article 66(1). The bill, offered by the government of the Republic of Serbia, says the term of office for the presidents of the courts is reduced from five to four years. It is a de facto resolution of all the presidents of Serbia's courts. So, shortening the term of office is the resolution of all the presidents of the courts, only to delay the fact of this norm. This means that the government wants, at all costs, to leave the Assembly for its term of office, if it remains in power until the end of the term of office, which I doubt, in the mood that the government in parliament, above all, has left the Assembly, has left a number of members of the G17 Plus party who disagreed with the bill's proposal, and have had a large number of amendments, but have probably withdrawn the amendments under political pressure, in order to preserve the coalition until the presidential elections. There is no fundamental justification to shorten the term of office of the President of the Court. The point is that the president of the court has a longer mandate than he has executive power. The Prime Minister and ministers have four years in office, and the presidents of the court should have five, precisely for reasons that the same authority would not elect and resolve the presidents of the courts, thus scaring them, put something bad in their appearance to be politically subdued. I am in favour of remaining a five-year term for the presidents of the courts, and I support Mr Milan Markovic's amendment, which explained the essence of the proposed changes and the possibility that, by means of professional selection, the possibility of young people coming to the courts for the presidents, to change, so that in this mutual competence and competition, the best people would choose for the most responsible places in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2555	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2556	Ladies and gentlemen, talking about the political subjugation of the President of the Courts after fear in the area of justice, carried out by Mr Vladan Batic, is simply inappropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2557	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Please, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2558	Article 15 is placed in the transitional and final provisions of this proposal and its contents suggests that the presidents of the courts, elected under the Law on Amendments of March 2003, cease the duties of the President of the Court. I have proposed that this position in the bill be deleted for several reasons. In the light of the proposal, the legislator shows that the reason for the proposal is 2. - to remove the consequences of the operation of the body for which the Constitutional Court found that they were anti-constitutional. Of course, so do I, and the legislator must stick to the Constitutional Court's decision, but in my view, that doesn't mean that the legislator is in charge of proposing a norm that will also not comply with the Constitution. The Serbian Constitution stipulates that the judicial authority belongs to the courts, under Article 9(1) and Article 4. The Constitution, and under Article 73 paragraph 1 point 10. The Constitution, the National Assembly elects and relieves the presidents and judges. The law must not and cannot be resolved by officials. They're just setting up. The law should provide for general rules and ways to do so. It is particularly unacceptable for the law to solve individual cases. If paragraph 2 is not deleted. (Art. 151. in the draft law, the law goes into constitutional solutions and in such a way violates the Constitution. Under the law, I am aware that some authorities have been declared unconstitutional, and according to a law whose amendment is required by this decision that an unconstitutional solution is in the former law, it is necessary to take action, and some actions have been taken, and the question is how their consequences should be removed. The proposal could have been to repeat the procedure in a legally prescribed manner, not to be resolved by law. It was possible to set a deadline in which it would be done and, again, I underline, it would not be an unconstitutional solution. Now, I'm seeing this solution as pure rematchism, so I think after 20 years of mentioning the trial to six, we're going to have a solution that will be precedentd in our practice, but this time this precedent will go to the soul of the G17 plus!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2559	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2560	Not only on this amendment, but also on earlier amendments submitted mainly by MPs of the Democratic Party, I can only make one comment -- it would be best if they had submitted one amendment that all holders of judicial functions, judges and deputy prosecutors in the country set up by the Democratic Party's legal team, but when they are in full composition, means when Tadic and Ceda agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2561	Here you are, MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2562	The Honorable Chairman, I have here and a reason for the replication and discussion of the amendment. I'll put that together in three minutes. First of all, I believe that the purpose of amending the Law on Judges is this provision, whereby the Presidents of the Courts elected under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, ceases their duty, or are relieved by law. I want to remind the public that it is about the presidents of the courts who have taken on organised crime after the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. It seems to me that this standard is an obstruction of everything that has been done in the fight against organised crime and against the results that have been achieved in that fight. It is an attempt to dissuade the courts that are now suing the murderers of Zoran Djindjic and that in one anti-constitutional way they are dealing with people who have done their job depolitizedly. The desire is for political listeners to be brought into the judiciary instead of these people, and to continue to deal with political insinuation in the judiciary through the Supervisory Board, which will be elected by the Supreme Court judges, where the rest of the previous regime has been seriously observed. This claim is accompanied by discussions supported by the draft law and by the members of the SPS in this Parliament. It is obvious that the law should also achieve a political coalition in Serbia's Supreme Court between the rest of the parties of the previous regime and those judges who have agreed to the current current current current power. The Democratic Party publicly informs Serbian citizens that the next day following the adoption of such a law, it will launch a constitutional assessment before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, because this provision is a couple of excellencies against the constitution; this is a deviation from the democratic principle that only judges can choose judges, that only judges can resolve judges, and this is a step away from it. Here, on a proposal from the executive authority, the term of office of the presidents of the courts will end, which is the direct attack of the judiciary's executive authority. This suggests that those who have only verbally advocated constitutionality and legality have been violating that constitutionality and legality since day one as they formed the congregation's majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2563	Here's a word from the People's Messenger Goran Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minsitre, this proposed amendment does not correct the Law, but contests the spirit of the Law and as such is unacceptable. The DSS parliamentary group will not vote for him. There were several mentions here yesterday of a Syntagma of Freudian Error. I think this amendment and its argument from DS members is an example of Freudian error. It's about rematchism, the political shift of the president of the courts. Political shift would be possible only if someone had in mind that the presidents of the courts were on political criteria and set up. So when you talk about a shift with political motives, you're just talking about a relationship with these presidents of the courts and the way they're possibly set up. There are other criteria, and this is a technical matter, and they are possible professional, possible moral, possible formal legal, etc. This is about the technical amendment and the possibility that now, and you've talked about it yourself, and some other people are dealing with this job and you're doing the same, too, to compete and, of course, the criteria for their choice are not a couple of excellencies politically. When someone is talking about rematchism and political shift, he is just saying that this way of thinking was possible at a time when these decisions and appointments were made. These laws, as well as the other laws proposed by the DSS and yet to be proposed, are an introduction to the fundamental depoliticalization of society, of course, primarily by the judicial authorities. This will result in a complete abolition of the party state. So, we will demonstrate the party state that existed and we will introduce a society in which some other criteria will be key, and politicians will deal with politics in the assembly and other political bodies, not in courts, not in prosecutors, not in the police, not in health institutions, as well as in other important institutions of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2565	Anyone else want a word? (Bosko Ristic, from the place: Replica. It's a client. No Democratic Party is mentioned. First, let's give the Minister a word to explain it, yes. (Bosko Ristić, from the site: Misreading. ) Misreading, MP Bosko Ristić, you have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2566	When it comes to politicizing the judiciary, I didn't think of rematchism. We have tried to verify in the previous period in the best possible way by the objective criteria that are best proposed for a particular candidate to come into a particular function. That's how it was done. This congregation respected proposals coming from the High Council of Justice. Such a bill, as given by the Serbian government, does not allow the presidents of the courts, who are being resolved, to discuss their work with the assembly. Every judge, every president of the court has the right to discuss his work with the Assembly and if there are legal reasons to be resolved. Here legal reasons are subsequently created without the possibility that the Presidents of the Courts say a word about their work, about their honesty, about their relationship with the judiciary, about the reforms they see, rather than about the opposite: that the presidents of the courts who made a huge contribution to judicial reform are now silent and that they do not have the opportunity to speak to the public about what they have to do with the sighting and behaviour of the executive authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2567	The word has a minister of justice in the Serbian government, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2568	I answer for one simple reason. I think there's a terrible ugly word here about the Serbian Supreme Court. I, as minister of justice, whose resources are both court and prosecutor's office, must intervene. Attacking such an ugly Supreme Court of Serbia, I declare that there are old personnel there from a previous period, says something that I personally cannot qualify differently than the man who said it. In the Supreme Court there are judges who have everything except those who have been elected as some have been elected, over 20 years of training. What time did they start judging? A good number started back in Tito's period, unless someone thought the judge could get an internship by opening a private court at the Kalenic market and judging there. I think this is ugly because of a court that represents a drop of justice, something that should be the highest quality of this country. A man can discuss each judge individually, but casually glue the label to one court, that's unacceptable! I will also, in order to make it clear to you that it is the group interests of several people, read, here I am now being brought into the hall -- a session of the Supreme Court of Serbia's Management, held on 21.4.2004. They unanimously reached the next conclusion - regarding a set of laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Justice, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has unanimously concluded at the meeting held on 21.4.2004, that calling for the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of Serbia, at which the drafts of these laws would be considered, would be non-discriminatory at this time, as this could lead to the delay of the assembly debate that is under way, and these regulations are necessary to bring about an urgent procedure in order to guarantee independence to the judiciary and the prosecution, which is one of the demands of the international community, and independence has been violated in the system by the authorities of earlier amendments to the Law of July 2002 and March 2003, which were subject to serious criticism of the professional and scientific criticism by the public. This is the judge's position. As for the story that someone's work should be evaluated, I have made it clear in the opening statement that Baltazar Bogeisic introduced a basic principle into our judicial system and I think we should respect that principle - which the coat of arms does not correct. Those who have come illegally cannot call for some legal action.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2569	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Based on what replica? [[People's MP Bosko Ristic requests a replica.]] You have no right to a replica. He didn't mention you. Not only did you mention the judge's grades, but everyone mentioned the judge's grades. Mr. Ristic, you have no right to a replica, I'm sorry. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojla Bukvic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Radojla Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2570	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I have submitted the amendment to Article 16 for practical reasons. Article 16 should be deleted because one of the first meetings of the Assembly in this assembly is put out of force, i.e. the suspension of the application of the Law on Courts of Appeal until 1.1.2007. It therefore suspends all provisions relating to the Law on Courts of Appeal, leaving the jurisdiction of Serbia's district and Supreme Court on the principle of subordination, i.e. the subjugation of a higher court compared to a lower court. If this Article 16 remained in the Law, he would only carry confusion as far as jurisdiction is concerned, and for these reasons I suggested that this member of the Law be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2571	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2572	Ladies and gentlemen, I support the amendment of my fellow MPs, and I would like to say in relation to the Minister's position on the session of the Supreme Court of Serbia's Supreme Court, that in this council there are people who ended the election will of the citizens in 1996 and 1997, that the President of the Administrative Court is also...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2573	Mr. Ristic, you've reported on the amendment. Let me remind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2574	I will explain the powers of the President of the Court and the President of the Judicial Council, but I must give an introduction. So it's about people who took part in ending the electoral will of citizens. The law did not create a way to assess the work of precisely those judges who participated in the end of the election will forge the results of the vote. On the contrary, it proposes eradicating a member who foresees special conditions for the resolution of precisely those judges who participated in politically mounted processes and in ending the electoral will of citizens. A large personal council composed of Supreme Court judges who have repeatedly obstructed the work when it comes to resolving some judges or establishing the existence of legal conditions for retirement, has already collectively resigned and thus blocked judicial reform and blocked the work of judicial authorities. That is why I would like the minister of justice and the current prime minister to take a certain position in relation to whether it was an election theft, whether lex specialis was now annulled by the refusal of the motion to get rid of judges who participated in the electoral theft, and where the reports by case were those judges who decided in the second degree. Judges who have exceeded the electoral will of the citizens have been proposed for the resolution because of their intricacies and lack of awareness, because in their cases they have found that they have obtained the papers of the electoral commission and have made it clear that the records of the council and the vote have not been revised, although they have agreed. They didn't owe the item, and they didn't have any insight into it. I therefore ask the Minister to say which mechanisms he wishes to pursue in the judiciary on the basis of expertise and security and whether he agrees that judges who have thus exceeded the electoral will of citizens should remain in court. I see that these judges who are now giving a press release, right now, politicizing their function, address Parliament with political demands, and that is all with the aim of preserving that political core that remains of Milosevic's regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2575	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want to take the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Prosecution (Statistics) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Milica Gavrilovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Milan Markovic on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Milan Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2576	Now we have moved to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office - I hope we will not have political negotiations, but will deal with law and profession. It seems to me that the amendments that have been tabled here, which are being discussed, exclusively refer to the text of the Amendments and the addition of the Law. What's my proposal's idea? May I have your attention, please? [[Sagar.]] I will try to end this within a reasonable time, but you must understand that as a MP, I have both the right and the obligation to participate in the work and to submit amendments, to defend amendments, to discuss, so please allow me to do so by not making any noise in the hall! There's an idea here that's not a very special side. It's that in the system that we now have, until the constitution is passed, when we have the continuity of judges, the continuity of public prosecutors, that we also have the continuity of deputy public prosecutors. Why do I think it's a good thing that the deputy public prosecutors have the same position as the public prosecutors and judges do? Here's why. If we take into account that both the deputy public prosecutor and the public prosecutor, as well as the judge, the reasons for the resolution are valid, that is, if it does not work well, and we know what is meant by that, unless it is legally done, if it is unconscious, if it is unprofessional, it is subject to all those rules concerning the reasons for the resolution and it is likely to be resolved. But look at the situation, if we have a deputy public prosecutor doing extremely well, professionally, strictly by law, quality. Why put such a deputy public prosecutor every eight years in a position to be resolved? to be the victim of a misunderstanding or of some politics within the esnaf itself, within the public prosecutor's profession itself, a judicial one, or perhaps some political misunderstandings that will rule in some parliament, or one that will work for eight years, from the day of the election of a deputy public prosecutor. It can only cause damage, because two things can happen: One thing is that a good deputy public prosecutor is not re-elected after eight years. Another pity is that, in fear of this possibility of reelection, he is subject to various influences and pressures, various flirting, in the sixth, seventh, eighth year of his term, or right before his reelection. Therefore, my proposal is to restore their continuity, to keep their function permanent. In the public prosecutor's office, all rules apply as well as to judges and public prosecutors and to deputy public prosecutors, and in addition, we have a devolution and substitution and co-ordination. And there is no need for the deputy public prosecutors to be burdened with this prospect of fear of being resolved in the eighth year, and perhaps they did exactly as they should be done - by law, safe and professional. I'm sorry, for 40 seconds of overrun. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2577	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2578	In Article 8, the following shall be inserted in Articles 12 and 20. (I'll merge all three amendments in these three minutes) It's about what I've already said, I personally don't like it, and that's the style of writing. I don't think the writing style is good. In particular, Article 8 has for no reason been inserted - that the public prosecutor "without anyone's approval" can carry out scientific and professional work. It's a total surplus. If you look at the provisions so far or what I have suggested, it simply writes the same, but it says - a public prosecutor can perform scientific and professional action. I don't know what that is - without anyone's approval. That sounds a little populist to me, and that's why I don't like it. As far as art is concerned. The 12th and the 20th is really, if you look at the law, it's kind of horned: the dots become stuck, and the dots become dots, the cartoons - two cartoons, three cartoons. I just applied a little bit of a different technique and I put it on -- it's changing and it's being said and it's practically the same, because I think it's better that it's written, it's going to be more receptive, and the MPs can understand it better. Perhaps such a minimalistic technique is more suitable for lawyers, that is, our profession. That's the three amendments, and I'm not gonna answer for them anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2579	Does he still want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Markovic submitted the 20th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2582	Article 21 refers to the same thing. So it's that part of the constant of the replacement function. Please think carefully about this idea! I think it's very good and it can't hurt. We will have amendments to the Constitution and when they are executed we will see whether we will generally advocate perseverance or re-election. Please, in the system that we've now accepted, it's a constant, keep the deputy public prosecutor's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2583	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2584	I would like to ask your attention - Article 28(2) reads: "The deputy public prosecutor who is not elected under the provisions of this law has the same position as if his duty had ceased at his request if he was not disciplined in the last term, and if so, his rights on the basis of his work have ceased. "I think this solution is bad. What's illegal! It is that we cannot recognise or recognize a person’s rights based on work, depending on how he ruled in previous years, because we will come into a situation where we recognize or do not recognize someone’s right to retire, depending on how he ruled during his working life. With my amendment, I suggest that the last part be deleted and that there is no such thing - that his labour rights stop because he was disciplined! Watch out, if he committed some offence, he was disciplined at the time he committed the offence, according to the rules that ruled at the time he committed the offence and by the procedure that was intended for it and by the punishment that was provided for the moment he committed the offence. This is the subsequent punishment of that same deputy public prosecutor, because, now, we've figured out to take away his rights based on work! Maybe tomorrow we'll figure out how to take someone's pension rights away, 'cause maybe he was in prison once. So please, and I suppose this is some sort of slip, so you can accept my amendment. There's really nothing controversial about this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2585	Anyone else want a word? Here you are, MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2586	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I support Mr. Milan Markovic's amendment. I think it is right, because a solution was offered, as suggested by the Serbian government, is anti-constitutional. I don't think it's a slip. The government has tried to put pressure on public prosecutors in another way. A constant threat, hanging over his head as a sword, that someone could lose their labour rights -- the right to retire, only because he was disciplined in the prosecution, is the basis for influence and political influence on the prosecutor's office. That is why I believe that such a solution has absolutely no place in the law and I believe that prosecutors have to carry out their duties in accordance with the law. If they commit a crime, they will be punished for it, they will endure punishment, but must not lose their labour rights and pension rights. That is why I fully support Milan Markovic's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2587	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2588	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also advocate that no one's behaviour sanctioned on the basis of discussions and some other measures should have consequences for the effects on former work, and that what belongs to everyone on the basis of those rights arising from a working relationship should be guaranteed and that this matter is not disputed. There's only one small problem here. The applicants of the amendments to one man, not only abolished his law-based rights, but also abolished his pension right! So if he had been a porter, if he had been a reference officer in the farming community, if he'd done any other job in this country, he'd have been entitled to retire. His name is Slobodan Milosevic!- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2589	Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word for Parliamentarian Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2590	You know what, this amendment, Col. Ruzdic, refers to Article 29. Article 29 provides that public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors who were first elected, or appointed to office under the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Public Prosecutors of 2003, and who are not elected under the provisions of this Act by 1 June 2004, shall have the right to work on the basis of works belonging to the elected person, i.e. the appointed person, etc. So, the attorney generals of your bill are going to re-election. Why did we propose to delete this amendment? Because you cannot send public prosecutors to re-election, it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia; Article 106. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says "The public prosecutor's function is permanent. The public prosecutor cannot stop his post or be relieved of his will, except in cases provided for by the judge, by law." So, seeing as no one is listening to me, I will repeat, therefore, "The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts the continuity of the prosecutor's office." Article 29 of your amendment and addition of the Law provides for "a re-election of public prosecutors". It's unconstitutional! Our proposal is to delete that provision and I can bet with anyone in this room that the Constitutional Court will intervene 100% on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2591	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Gavrilovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative is not here, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the High Council of Justice (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Bosko Ristic and Bojan Kekić, Zivojin Stefanović and Hranislav Peric on the bill. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Bosko Ristic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2592	Dear Chairman, before I begin to explain the amendment, I would like to ask you for something -- if you would grant me a few more minutes after 1400 hours, because I would now report for all amendments. So, I suggest you extend the amendment debate by ten minutes to end everything, because I will only report once according to all my proposed amendments, so that I do not retain MPs, as it is a concept proposal. During the debate in principle and during the debate in detail on how the judges were elected, I said I had offered a solution that I believe no one could object to. That is why I call on all the lawyers who are also MPs in the Assembly to carefully consider this solution because it is about offering guarantees for essential judicial independence. If the judicial authority is independent of the other two authorities, of course, there is some system of mutual control in the Constitution prescribed, I believe that the judicial authority is best exercised through judicial self-government. What does that mean? It means that the judges themselves choose the highest authority to propose the choice and resolution of the judges. So, to achieve the full principle and that judges choose and relieve judges, and not that someone does so on the side, at least executive power. But of course, the Assembly will have a certain control role in the functioning of the judiciary, thus making a choice between several candidates for judges and presidents. I suggested that the High Council of Justice have 15 members, that the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, the state prosecutor and the minister of justice, be members of the High Council of Justice. The National Assembly elects three members of the High Council of Justice, among recognised experts in science and legal practice, and the Bar Association selects a member from the ranks of prominent lawyers. For what? I believe that the National Assembly should have its representatives at the High Council of Justice, primarily because of this particular control function. The High Judicial Council, as a rule, works in closed sessions. In this way, other branches of the authorities would not have insight into what is happening in the highest judicial authority, and it is therefore envisaged that the President of the Supreme Court, the State Prosecutor and the Justice Minister would be acting as members of the High Council of Justice, so that the executive authority would be well aware of the situation in the judiciary, the state of movement of staff in the judiciary, but would also have a certain but not crucial impact on decision-making. I believe that the proposed solution in which the High Council of Justice consists of members of different kinds, as said in the draft amending the Law, and I believe that there are no members of the Judges and Prosecutors, that these are different types, I do not think it is appropriate to create the High Council of Justice as the highest authority of the judiciary, drawn up to determine different compositions for individual issues. In my proposal, the High Council of Justice would be chaired by the President of the Supreme Court, or the Attorney General, in line with what is the subject on which the High Council of Justice decides. If the subject is the choice of prosecutors or the resolution of prosecutors, the state's prosecutor would chair. If the subject is the choice or resolution of judges, the President of the Supreme Court would chair. Of course, these members who are members of the High Council of Justice would lose their post when they stopped performing the post they were elected to. Other proposals are system solutions and they logically fit into the first proposed solution. A member of the High Council of Justice who performs an orderly, unwittingly or impartially, shall be relieved of his duties in the High Council of Justice. Of course, I support the proposal that members of the High Council of Justice cannot progress through the judiciary during their duties in the High Council of Justice. The proposal has also now explained all amendments to the Law on the High Council of Justice, that members of the High Council of Justice are elected in accordance with this law, which is passed within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Otherwise, the government has proposed 30 days, which I don't think is objectively possible. So, to underline, I suggest that all judges and all prosecutors choose their members of the High Council of Justice directly and secretly, and that this be done after the application procedure established by the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2593	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojan Kekić, Zivojin Stefanović and Hranislav Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. They've given up. Thank you. National MP Bosko Ristic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekić, Zivojin Stefanović and Hranislav Peric. I hear the amendment's been withdrawn, so we skip it. National MP Bosko Ristic submitted an amendment proposing that new members of 3a, 3b and 3v be added after Article 3. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of DSS. I would like to remind you that the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single review of the proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the rapporteur want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. Given that the National Assembly held a debate on all the points of the agenda of the ninth session of the National Assembly in 2004, I set 21 April 2004 as the Day of Vote on all points of the agenda, starting at 15.15 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-21-0.u2594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Article 94(2). Rules of Procedure, I am scheduled to vote for 22 April 2004 at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. I welcome the students of law school at the gallery. Welcome! We continue the work of the 9th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 128 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Slobodan Vukkovic, Miroslav Martic, Zoran Micovic and Bosko Ristic. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all the points of the agenda of the ninth session of the First Regular Session in 2004, we are moving to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Judges I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, in principle. For 128, there are no 11 abstentions, no votes, no 8 out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that MP Milan Markovic, at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, withdrew the amendment to Article 8 during the review of the draft law in particular and of Article 10. The People's MP, Bosko Ristic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 127, the abstentioned were not voted by four, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Milan Markovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 129 abstentions, everyone voted out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 129 abstentions, one of the 151 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 129 abstentions, they all voted out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 129 abstentions, they all voted out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radojla Bukvic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 122, two abstentions, four of the 151 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 127, the abstentioned were not voted by three, of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Milan Markovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 127, there are no abstentions, one of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 127, a abstentioned one, one did not vote, out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 128, two abstentions, there are no non-voting ones, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 127, there are no abstentions, one of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 127, a abstentioned one, one did not vote, out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Radojla Bukvic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 124, a abstentioned one, two of the 151 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill in general. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, in general. For 128, against 23, there are no abstentions, no non-voting ones, of a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Prosecution Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, in principle. For 129 against 23, there were no abstentions, no non-voting ones, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. I remind you that during the review of the draft law in particular, it has been found that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of MP Milica Gavrilovic to Article 29. National MP Milan Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 25, against 126 abstentions, one of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 128, there are no abstentions, one of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 127, there were no abstentions, no two votes, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Milan Markovic submitted the 20th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 127, the abstentions were not voted by two, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Milan Markovic submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 128, there are no abstentions, one of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Milan Markovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For the 23rd, against 124 abstentions, there were no four votes, out of a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 126, a abstentioned one, two of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, in general. For 128, there are no abstentions against 23, one of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the High Council of Justice After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in detail, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice, in principle. For 128, there are no abstentions against 23, one of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that during the review of the draft law in particular, MPs Bojan Kekić, Živojin Stefanović and Hranislav Peric withdrew the amendments to Articles 2 and 3. The People's MP, Bosko Ristic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 125, the abstentions were not, three voted, out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bosko Ristic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 128, there are no abstentions, one of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Bosko Ristic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 127, there are no abstentions, one did not vote, out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bosko Ristic submitted an amendment proposing that new members of 3a, 3b and 3v be added after Article 3. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 125, a abstentioned one, was not two, of a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 126, a abstentioned one, was not voted by three, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 125, the abstentioned were not voted four, out of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 125, the abstentions, did not vote 5, out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 127, there were no abstentions, no three votes, of a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 126, there are no abstentions, no five, a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm closing the vote. For 128, against 23, there were no abstentions, not one, a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice. We move to item 4 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we approach the vote on a proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's board in general. For 140, against five, abstentions, there was no vote of 6, a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda and decision by them, pursuant to Article 95. I should like to conclude my rules of procedure at the ninth session of the First Regular National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004.
