ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-12-0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the sitting is attended by 220 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Please attach plane tickets to the absent secretariat. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Dragan Šormaz, Brance Stojanovic, Natasa Micic, Vojislav Kostunica, Vladimir Milankov and Išpanovic Istvan; Radmilo Milosevic will be late. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called for this session in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, within a short period of time, as set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to select the MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly as soon as possible. You were presented with records of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. As a sufficient number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions under Article 82(3). Rules of Procedure. Comments on the minutes shall be submitted in writing to the Administrative Committee. The National Assembly shall decide on the minutes without discussion, in accordance with Article 85(2) and (3). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 27 January, 4 and 6 February 2004. For 183, there was no 8. A total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 27 January, 4 and 6 February 2004. I am voting on the minutes of the February 9th 2004 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's First Extraordinary Session. For 190, it did not vote 8, a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the February 9th 2004 National Assembly session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, which was convened at the request of 159 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the maintenance of the Second Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, the following Dn e n i d 1 was identified. The election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - THE MEETING OF THE SERBIA COMMUNITY AND BLACK GORE You have received a summary list of candidates for the selection of Serbian-Montenegro Assembly MPs, made up of the Republic Election Commission on the basis of a proposal from parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to Article 2. The law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly elects 91 MPs to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, in line with the Constitutional Charter of the Serbia-Montenegro State Community. Before we approach the vote, let me remind you that it is in article 15. The law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly found that MPs in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly were elected candidates from the pool list, provided that the pool list of candidates received most of the votes of MPs at a session attended by most of the total number of MPs and that the assembly list was voted in public, using an electronic voting system. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I find that we have a quorum for work and decision-making. We're approaching the vote. I am voting on a summary list of candidates for the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. For 207, against two, a abstentioned one, three of the 213 MPs present did not vote. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the summary list of candidates received most of the votes of the national MPs present and that the National Assembly has thus decided that candidates from the summary list have been elected for MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. Allow me to congratulate the MPs on your choice and on your behalf. The honourable MPs, since I was informed by the president of the parliamentary groups that a number of MPs should cease the mandate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because of the elections for MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, need to stop the National Assembly as soon as it determines the end of its mandate to these MPs, in order to make the conditions for filling up the seats and enabling the work of the National Assembly in full. Now we need to agree on a break. Let me also congratulate the MPs and the Serbian Radical Party today's glory. (Glasses: Thank you. Let's see when you need to get out. (Glasses: At 11:30) Nothing, then we'll continue the work at 15.00 hours. In the meantime, the Republic Election Commission and the Administrative Committee will work. I'll see you here at 15.00 hours, and I'd like the presidents of the parliamentary groups to agree on an agreement on the Republic Election Commission. [[After break – 15.45]] Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Please, before we do, to determine if we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I agree that we have enough MPs to work and decide the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before we continue to work, I have another proposal, since this procedure and this procedure have been slightly diverged in relation to the planned time and since we will have to have another break in which the Republic Election Commission will meet, I suggest that we now make a decision that we will work today until this session is over. I think it might take 18.00 hours, so to make that decision in good time, please let us get to the point. So I suggest we work today until the end of this one point of the agenda. Who wants to raise a hand? He doesn't need a hand, he's working the system. Of course, first we'll determine the quorum, then we'll vote on this proposal. Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Please make your statement on this proposal. For 160, against eight, abstentioned 12, eight of the 188 MPs did not vote. I find that we have made a decision that we will work today until the end of this one item of the agenda. You received the resignations of Dragan Ljubojević, Milun Barać, Miroljub Veljković, Slavko Jerković, Ognjen Mihajlović, Bozidar Vučurović, Miroslav Talovic, Milan Čuković, Vlasimir Jovanovic, Zlata Radovanovic, Gojko Radić, Slavić Topalović, Dragan Žikić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Srđan Nikolic, Dragan Pavlović, Dragović, Maja Gojković, Dragan Bozalić, Jadranka Vuković, Dragan Todorović, Milosav Miličković, Velibor Stojković, Novak Savić, Novak Savić, Mr. Dragović, Mr. Dragoslav Žažović, Mr. Dragož, Mr. Dragožov Živić, Mr. Dragov Živović, Mr. Dragoović, Mr. Dragožov Pravović, Mr. Dragov Prav, Mr. Dragović, Mr. Dragović, Mr., Mr. Žović, Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr. Žović, Mr. Žović, Mr. Žović, Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr. Drag, Mr. The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments establishes the termination of the term of office of these Members of Parliament on the day of their resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, notes that before the end of time they were elected to, the MPs: - Dragan Ljubojević, Milun Barac, Miroljub Veljković, Slavko Jerković, Ognjena Mihajlović, Bozidar Vučurovic, Miroslav Talovic, Milan Šik, Majamir Jovanovic, Zlata Radovanović, Gojko Radić, Slaviša Topalovic, Dragan Žikić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Srđankovic, Dragan Pavlović, Maja Gojković, Maja Gojković, Draga Žaljović, Žaljović, Žačan Žažar Žalj, Jadrankažažar, Jadranka Žažažarović, Jadrković, Jadrković, Drago Todrković, Drago Todrković, Milažov Milič, Miličažov Milič, Milič, Miliković, Milič, Velibor Dragović, Velibor Stojković, Velibor Švković, Svić, Svić, Svić, Svić, Svić, Svić, Švić, Švić, Švić, Drag, Žažović, Žažović, Drag, Žažović, Žažović, Drag, Drag, Drag Žažović, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, I would like to inform you that, in the follow-up of this session, according to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament, we will carry out the fill-up of vacant seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is why I am setting a break, it will be one hour, in order to hold a session of the Republic Election Commission and the Administrative Committee. So, work continues at 17.00 hours.
