ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9535	It is likely that Serbia needs such a law, and simply life has imposed the need for this matter to be settled, because so far we have had something similar, which was practically one surrogate, where the general rules of business of a particular bank and of a particular company, which were defined in this form of business, and the verification and identification of participants in a legal business, were done by their general acts. There weren't many users, there wasn't even likely any short-term need to fix it, but now there's really a need for this area to be settled. I would specifically refer to certain provisions of the bill. I have to say that we have a problem with the bad translation again, although I'm surprised, since a decision has been made in the Federal Assembly to safeguard Cyrillics, not only as a font or a form of letters, but I suppose it's in a sense to preserve it. I would draw your attention, because it is likely that Article 3 of Section 1 will bring confusion into practice, because the electronic document, you have stated here, can't be challenged just because it's in that electronic form. This is not enough, because this law must first and foremost be applied by those bodies that have to do this job, but the much greater importance of this law should be for legal services, which means for the elemental safety of the participants in the affairs and clarity with which the court is to resolve, and certainly there are certain and some disputes in this area. You will confuse the court with certain provisions of this law. This applies, first of all, to what you stated in Article 2 in terms of definitions. You have defined some concepts that are used so ravingly, and you have not implemented those definitions until the end of the sequences through the provisions of the sixth member to the practical supervision. That could be a big problem. You are probably aware that in Article 4(1) of this introductory phrase, "a certain document", and it is much better that you listed that electronic document and at the end of the sentence deleted the words of the electronic document, because this is how you confuse those who need to apply this law, they will find themselves in wonder. It is similar with Article 10 – "skilled electronic signature compared to electronic data". You'd better put it in an electronic document. That would be more significant. In Article 15, it can't be at least 15 days, because if something is the least, there can be less and less. I guess that's where it's supposed to be at the latest. Keep our tongue, it's beautiful. In Article 23, the electronic certificate may be issued. I guess he's giving up. Let's make that a little clearer. In Article 27, the user is responsible for irregularities caused by failure to comply with the provisions laid down. I suppose because of the failure to comply with the obligations of these members. Something that's really going to confuse the court, which needs to solve whether it's damage compensation or whether there's a right to exist, or whether it's going to give evidence power to some electronic document. This is already what you have written in Article 27, paragraph 2 – "the user may be free of responsibility in cases where it can be proven". I guess if he proves it. It's not necessary to do it grammatically. It's not necessary. It's not necessary to do it grammatically. In article 33, you say competent authority. The competent authority is likely to be the Government, which determines these insurance premiums, i.e. the minimum amount of insurance. Not to add, these are stereotype problems of a bad translation, but we are faced with not only a bad translation problem, but you have given the wrong content to some terms, so bad translation is not just a linguistic thing, it becomes a fundamental problem. That law will have to be done somehow, arranged, redecorated. Practice will order his arrangements. The great lack of this bill is that you do not have a clear indication of which qualifications should be those persons who work in the bodies that issue certificates. You have a descriptive date, appropriate. I don't know what's appropriate, because when someone tells me the right cook, I can figure out the sixth, seventh, eighth, any degree. Let me look at these essential problems; what you have listed in Article 2. point 8) "data for checking electronic signatures - data, such as codes and public cryptographic keys", you probably think of these codes as public, because I don't know why cryptographically they would be public, and the codes aren't. Finally, I must draw your attention to the fact that, as you have stated here, a qualified electronic certificate, which has full evidence power, which has presummation of accuracy, is guaranteed the identity and credibility of a declaration of will contained in that document if it is encrypted by this qualified electronic means. I don't see any provisions here on what might serve as a guarantee to the user in the event of abuse. For what? We recently had the opportunity to read in the paper about the problem of states that have developed information systems, where a good part of payment traffic is done by electronic means, where electronic credit is purchased by electronic means, using electronic cards. I'll give you an example, that a woman who had a credit card, who was technologically trained, should have typed her code and typed it, and nothing happened from that offer, nothing was realized. After a few days, she was informed that so many funds were removed from her account, and you probably know in the end what turned out to be. Turns out a skilled hacker introduced himself as if he were an offerer and people applied to him and opened their soul, as they say, and he thanked them very much, and he said, "I didn't steal you, you gave me your own information." I don't see any provision here that prevents such abuse. If you think that there is a provision in our criminal law that provides some protection, then I must tell you that it is only a provision on what is forbidden and what is the penalty. But it's a weak benefit for someone who's damaged, if he has to go through some procedure, and he can't effectively use his means and rights. I cited this to you as an example – since you have seen this e-signature law as a single legal basis based on which this lower form, which is that ordinary electronic certificate, and probably refers to payment cards and to one where there is no need for greater credibility in legal traffic, but it is necessary for the internal communication of users and banks – because I do not see protection. You just gave us some real groundwork. That legal basis you gave this law is a mere declaration. The state said, that's where we took care of it, but it's all far from the state. I don't know how long you're on the government program if the government has a program. For similar things, the Government has proposed in some laws the establishment of agencies for much more benign things. You kept the registration here at the ministry, and I think that's a good solution. I want to tell you right away that registration for a qualified electronic signature, etc. He's at the ministry, and that's a good solution. It's a bit off government policy. She throws everything at the agencies, see for yourself. There's going to be a problem here. You may not be directed to specific matters. A few months ago, a company registration law was passed, and almost unanimously, there was an amendment that could be registered in electronic form. One of the reasons the law boasted was that it could end in electronic form in three days. You'll have a problem here. You're going to have a problem with this qualified electronic signature going for legal persons, and when there's a registration of something that doesn't exist, there's no possibility of electronic communication, because there's no subject to communication. The provisions on the liability of these bodies issuing certificates must be much clearer and more serious. What you have stated in Article 18 regarding the conditions that must be met in order to deal with the activity, as you say – issuing qualified electronic certificates must be much more serious. There must also be a provision on the minimum funds guaranteed by the one providing the service. You have provisions where the contract is terminated, the contract can be terminated, the contract is terminated, the contract is terminated. All of his jobs related to the qualified electronic signature of the firm that did this and which disappears are transferred to another company, transfers and users, transmits everything. I think that the relationship requires provisions for this to have some seriousness, because as the mere declaration is stated and there will be great problems in practice. If you think you can handle things by sublegal means, I need to talk you out of it right now and warn you of one thing. The power of the sublaw is limited, and the problem of this law and these shortcomings I have pointed to is not technical but legal. You legal problems, question of responsibility, communication, identification, you can't bring down the technical problem, no matter what the computer, as a means of communication, is a technical means. This law is legally indeterminate in terms of the status of the one giving certificates, in terms of the importance of documents, in terms of liability for failures. It's not all criminal responsibility. A man who understands the work of a computer and if you give him a CD to mount a program in a computer, he will reject it, because he knows the meaning of copyright, etc. I'm afraid that by developing this form of business, many will take advantage of the indeterminate nature of the law and do some unholy and dirty work. Take an example, it is theoretically possible for you in electronic form to address the court and to carry out a copy of the signature on that document of yours, and it is a document supporting the candidacy of a presidential candidate, the law allows, you did not rule that out. If you think that you have excluded it from the provision of Article 3(2) with these points (1) to (6), you have only talked here about bilateral transactions, contracts and statements which appear as evidence in court. I've set an example of a statement that's not evidence in court. It's used for something else. I took a very picturesque example to make it clear to everyone. If we add that when we enter here in the Assembly and see donor computers and programs, and see who used it – these experts who boast that they are experts, they are not in Europe with a candidate, but with a computer, they all have computers, but the candid few have, this is their mental problem, not a topic for here – they listen to songs and watch movies and use them for video games. They're trained to build a large number of counterfeits, and there's no protection, this law doesn't provide that protection. This law needs to be done, the idea is good and the need exists, and above all there is a need for this to be better and more precise and some technical failure, some technical failure would not cause great and harmful consequences for the citizens, the users, and why not tell the institutions, it needs to be redecorated, it needs to be done, it needs to be adapted to something that we can understand and what everyone can be clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9536	The word has the People's MP Milica Gavrilovic, and let the MP Donka Banovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, I am simply convinced that fellow predecessor, MP Mr Krasic will certainly not convince the SRS MPs that due to certain synergistic disagreements with the text of the law they do not vote for this law. It is a good law, which I can say that representatives and MPs of the DSS – Dr Vojislav Kostunica express great satisfaction that today is on the agenda and express at the same time and regret that it has not been adopted before. In fact, e-business means doing business by electronic means. This means that the exchange of standardised electronic messages allows the conclusion of the contract, then the provision of various payments and the acquisition of the necessary documentation. The question arises what is achieved by electronic business. The transition to this type of business reduces costs, which necessarily leads to an improvement in economic activity. This has also been confirmed in a study by the UN Economic Commission for Europe, which says that this type of business is even a thousand times cheaper than the classical type of business. In addition to being cheaper, he allows faster business. It is easier to communicate with domestic and foreign partners, which, of course, excludes the earlier possibility, or necessity for one contract to be concluded, which is that they are physically present in one place. Now they can do it from different geographical distances. What does that look like? I'll explain it on one of the simplest cases. Instead of each of us going to the post office, waiting in line in front of the counter, wasting his time to pay, for example working, a phone bill, he can now do it from his apartment, from his office, on the Internet, by typing only one single code. Electronic signature, as an electronic component, has been applied for a long time in many Western countries. The electronic signature confirms the identity of the sender and thus confirms both the authenticity and integrity of the electronic documents. We exchange information online with people we don't know, so we can't even trust them. And we also can't be sure if our messages arrive in an unaltered, integrated form. The electronic signature technique, and therefore the technique of a qualified electronic signature, solves these problems, as they allow legal certainty to determine who is the sender of the message and whether it has been changed in the course of its journey. The basic definition of this law is that it gets the legal power of its own signature and that one day it becomes valid evidence before the court. Although this law has not been passed, there are already some examples of its use in our practice. I will mention a successful example of business on the Belgrade Stock Exchange. That's where the concept of remote trading was adopted. Which means that every broker from his parent company can trade shares through a smart card. That smart card owns an electronic signature. He owns the identification of the broker and records the time and date of access, each of his access to that system. The adoption of this e-signature law would be completely unimaginable if a paper invoice, which a business partner, for example, works from Serbia, were to continue to exist in international trade by fax to his business partner in Italy. However, many of our relatives may be concerned about the adoption of this law. The facts contribute to economic crime every day getting its new forms of appearance. It would have enabled computer technology, or already allowed it, to make economic crime transnational. In our case-law, there are some examples of abuse of accounting data. One of these, I would say the most impressive, is the example of mass and unauthorized distribution of intellectual property in the form of Microsoft software, which is why many have called us a country without originals. On the other hand, the most striking examples, or forms of crime in this area, are hacking and stealing time. While I was an expert associate in the investigation department of the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade, a case appeared when a case against four people allegedly deceived US citizens by buying musical instruments through a line of advertisements. In our legal system, namely in chapter 16a of the KZ of the Republic of Serbia, provisions are foreseen that sanction precisely these cases of computer and technological crime. Electronic signature is the basis for introduction and management, i.e. electronic administration, which allows our citizens, if not all, can at least most of their administrative jobs end up online. For example, there are already some municipalities in Serbia, such as Novi Belgrade, as well as some in Belgrade and the interior, which allow our citizens to demand, seek and receive assurances about citizenship, are derived from home books born on the Internet, and do not come to the municipality. By adopting this law, Serbia would meet one of the conditions for inclusion in modern business flows and would take one step forward towards bringing our legislation into line with European Union legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9538	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9539	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, I still have to admit, and yesterday and with the minister, I talked a little bit about this law being somewhat incomprehensible. But, of course, it is not on the soul of the law’s author, but on the very subject matter itself, which is the subject of the regulation. I've had a particular grudge for some terms. I'm a professor of English, so I got into this story whether, for example, the term - the certification body can be translated in some other way and of course it couldn't, because the certificate is a word, and the certification body, among other things, can be certified and certified and electronic signatures. That's a word for which you simply cannot find the right equivalent in Serbian. Support for the development of the information society is a strategy of the Ministry of Science and Technology, hence the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The draft e-signature law is before the Assembly, which, when adopted, will, of course, contribute to the intensive application of the modern way of doing business. Electronic business is a new, more efficient and cheaper business model, which will quickly become dominant in all areas of work and life alongside trade and payment traffic. For the successful functioning of electronic business, it is necessary to regulate the electronic signature by law and to equate the electronic form of paper-shaped document in legal traffic. Electronic business in our country is not used to a sufficient extent, primarily because of the lack of necessary basic legal regulations. Upon receiving its electronic signature, each user will be able to perform an official and valid electronic exchange of documents and to operate via e-mail. It has already been said several times, and we know that since January 2003 some banks have represented banking, i.e. that banks are already applying some kind of electronic identification, i.e. using electronic signatures. The reliability of electronic business shall be guaranteed by qualified electronic signature. The qualified electronic signature is therefore an electronic signature that reliably guarantees the identity of the signatories, the integrity of electronic documents and, of course, makes it impossible to subsequently deny responsibility for their content. The introduction of electronic business in the activities of state authorities, local self-government authorities and public services creates an opportunity for their thorough modernisation and, in particular, for the realization of the concept of electronic administration or of the E-Government. This would significantly increase the efficiency of the work of all bodies and services and improve their attitude towards citizens. And what exactly is an electronic signature? Please, Mr. President, ring a bell. It might be interesting to explain what an electronic signature is. It's very nice that some people, who have no contact with computers and information, think it's an electronic signature when you take an electronic pen and sign it, and then email it, but it's not. The electronic signature is essentially understood, i.e. the encryption process is used. Encryption is a way of concealing information by changing it into a series of seemingly pointless data. Data are encrypted using mathematical formulas, and in the most powerful form of encryption, also called strong encryption, it is extremely difficult to penetrate. There are several methods of e-mail encryption, and the most represented among consumers is one based on the use of a system known as the PGP. So it's pretty good protection. So PGP is today the most represented software for making electronic signatures. These are small computer programs used to make a pair of related keys. These keys are called a public key and a private key. So the electronic signature technique is based on a double electronic key system. I'll explain it briefly. Therefore, the user in the certification body makes his own electronic signature. This means that the user received one public key and one private key. User A, who owns both keys, sends its public key to user B. It is either a person or an institution with which electronic communication is carried out. So user B writes e-mail, then that mail is encrypted using the public key that was received from user B. User A when he received the message, decrypts it using his private key, and so he's quite sure it's just a message and that it's a message from person B, and that the document hasn't been changed in the meantime. Now the question is, how will user B check the authenticity of the public key, i.e. the key received from user A. This is done by allowing user B to request a qualified certificate, i.e. qualified electronic certificate, from the certification body. This confirms the authenticity of the B key, i.e. that public key. So there's no room for manipulation in that case, because only the private key and the public key make up that electronic signature system. The main feature of the electronic signature is its top security. This law also regulates types of electronic signatures, conditions that should satisfy qualified electronic signatures, features that must possess means to form a qualified electronic signature. The Ministry of Information Society has been given the authority of the Ministry of Information Society, which is currently the Ministry of Science and Ecology, and it is no coincidence that this ministry in law is currently in the terms of the competent authority. Because in the future it may appear, or it may happen that another ministry is in charge of developing an information society, although it is the overall concept of every serious government and country, but at this point it is the Ministry of Science and Technology. It has been authorised by the Ministry of Information Society to prescribe technical and technological procedures for the formation of a qualified electronic signature. The third chapter, which bears the name of electronic certification and certification bodies, sets out the concept of a certification body which issues electronic certificates. The basic principle is that no specific authorisation is required for the issue of electronic certificates. The conditions to be met by the certification body have been established in order to ensure that qualified electronic signatures are issued at all. The competent authority shall keep a register of certification bodies. Data is the possibility that the government authority can also issue qualified electronic signatures for a number of reasons, primarily because there is a expressed need for the establishment of a certification body at the level of state authorities and public administration, taking into account also the financial benefit and thus ensuring independence from entities outside the state authorities. The draft law clearly regulates the rights, obligations and responsibilities of users and certification bodies, such as obtaining certificates based on user requirements, freedom to choose a certification body, the obligation to keep data from unauthorized access. Cases of denunciation of a qualified electronic certificate have been prescribed, the certification body's obligations are prescribed in the event of termination of performance. The law also stipulates that the competent state authority shall carry out inspection of the work of the certification body and shall specify exactly what is the subject of supervision and control. Chapter 4, criminal provisions provide for penalties for certain infringements for natural persons, legal persons and certification bodies. The last chapter provides for the adoption of sublegal acts implementing this law within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. What is extremely nice or good is that the implementation of this law does not require additional financial resources. Namely, funds for the recording and registration of certification bodies shall be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia as part of the funds for the work of the competent authority of the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9540	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Svetislav Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9541	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary, I have come to you for the start of a speech by the honourable president of the Committee, to whom I belong, colleague Donka, who said at the beginning of her, otherwise very noticeable, that the word "certificate" cannot be translated into Serbian. I'm not a linguist, you're a linguist, there's a danger of not being declared incompetent from a professional point of view. However, the word "certificate" can be translated into Serbian. I would translate it as a confirmation, as a qualified certificate. If the word qualified is not responding, but it is not Serbian as a valid certificate, as a belief, as evidence etc. I know little of English, not as well as you do, but I noticed a phenomenon that I pointed out at the very beginning of our mandate and then I gave the amendment to one member, I think it was the Ministry Act, which is about harmonising relations with the EU. There's a Serbian term. According to our Constitution, the official language in this country and the official language of this National Assembly is a Serbian language. Therefore, we should try to take advantage of all that we have in Serbian. It's different if we don't have a word, if there's no word in Serbian. I'm not asking us to do what the Croats do, to invent some words that don't exist in language. This is their problem, and our language is rich enough and meaningful enough to be able to speak these words, that is, everything can be made quite clear and accurate in our language. So, if you don't get me wrong, I had to react that it's not true that the word "certificate" cannot be otherwise expressed in Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9542	Thank you. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9543	It's not a replica, it's an explanation. You mentioned three words there yourself, proof, conviction, confirmation. Which of those words would cover what's a certificate. Neither confidence covers the whole meaning of the word certification, nor confirmation, nor evidence. In the early 1980s, I worked as a translator in a military company and then some computer programs were started to be used to construct certain elements, etc. At first, translators dealt with the translation of some computer expressions into Serbian. It didn't come very far, or it was a very ghastly term that only complicated the situation, because you once had to explain one term in an entire sentence. That meaning is contained in one word. It is to teach English, but Serbian I love much more and always try to keep as little foreign words as possible in the things I write and when I speak. Sometimes you cannot avoid using foreign words, and English entered a large door in Serbian, the moment we began to adopt these technologies, or as science progressed, we adopted those terms, or that technique.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9544	Thank you. I have information that MPs Zoran Tanasijević and Dusan Prorokovic have given up their application for the word. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Cavic. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Science and Technological Development proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, Messenger of the people Jovan Daja, and after him Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for an electronic signature law in which I propose that article 11 be fully amended. I quote Article 11. Proposal for a Law: "The Ministry responsible for the Information Society (hereinafter referred to as the Competent Authority) shall prescribe technical and technological procedures for the formation of a qualified electronic signature and criteria to meet the means to form a qualified electronic signature. "Instead of the proposed member, I propose that the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection, in the follow-up to the competent authority, prescribe technical and technological procedures for the formation of a qualified electronic signature and criteria to meet the means to form a qualified electronic signature. This amendment shall be submitted in order to comply with the Government Act. It provides for the existence of the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection, whose work is part of the area covered by this legislative proposal. That's why I think this amendment of mine is good and comprehensive. So I appeal to you, honourable Members of the people, to adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9546	Thank you, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9547	The problem with this article is that information society, as a concept, means something to people who deal with these things, but the law couldn't stand. That's one problem. I'd like to draw your attention to some other matters related to the amendment to Article 11. I was just telling you about article 33, where you, as a competent authority, were probably referring to your Ministry. However, in Article 33, the competent authority shall prescribe the minimum amount of risk insurance and liability for possible damage. That can't be the ministry's job. In that sense, I said that only the Government of the Republic of Serbia can do the job. No ministry can prescribe secured sums, etc. And in the Law on the Insurance of Assets and Persons, these are jobs that the ministry cannot do, the minister to prescribe. This sublegal general act, a general decision that determines the basics, can only be done by the government. In that sense, I was just talking about the authorities and about these problems that are happening. The amendment that we have submitted to Article 11 applies first of all to this beginning – the ministry responsible for the information society. It doesn't mean anything. If you had said - the ministry responsible for information affairs or for electronic signature control tasks, then it would have been a formula that is acceptable. We specified and gave the true name of the ministry – Ministry of Science and Environment Protection. This may not be a proper formulation either, but it's much better than this one. This information society means nothing. You haven't even met the need to change the name of the ministries in the event of a new government, a change in the number of ministries, you have to change this again. Our idea with this amendment was to draw attention to you to properly appoint that authority, without this – the information society, and also to point you to Article 33. They are related, because in Article 11, you have designated the Ministry responsible for the information society as, in the following text, the competent authority. Wherever the "competent Authority" is used, it's the ministry. However, in Article 33, it cannot be a ministry, it must be a government. Let's just distract you. We have not submitted an amendment to Article 33, but we are drawing attention to your lack. And anyone who would initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court for what is stated in Article 33, be sure to receive this procedure and for the Constitutional Court to return this to you. There's no need to play with this in front of the Constitutional Court. You can make some amendments to this bill. A moment ago, someone misread it. It is not the SRS against this law in the sense that it does not need an electronic signature in Serbia, that electronic communication is not needed. We can't avoid that, it's necessary, but it needs to be worked out more clearly, to determine the fine instruments that provide guarantees and security for anyone who is taking this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9548	Thank you. Minister Popovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9549	Mr. Krasic said what the point was. The bottom line is that under the current Act on Ministrys, Ministry of Science and Environment, the competent authority is in charge of these matters. In another assembly of parliament, perhaps in this too, there will be another law on ministries, which may transfer the affairs of the information society to jurisdiction. That's why we think it's more relevant to remain the current solution. Since it has been mentioned, although no amendment to Article 33 has been submitted, I must say that Mr Krasic's pledge to be a member of the 33rd is something different from that of the 11th Mr. Daja. So, Mr. Daja is going to explain completely legitimately, to be a ministry directly mentioned, while article 33 already mentions the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a competent authority. In any case, I think this is a solution to this law, although this law does not regulate electronic business, but only electronic signatures, not necessary jobs that will have something to do with the flow of money. So, it's meant to be a system that will ensure that if a person A, if Mr. Markovic sent me an e-mail, when I got that e-mail, I know, I have a system to determine that what was written, that it was written by Mr. Markovic, that I got a whole and unaltered message. So we think that this is a solution that we suggested to be meaningful, even though we fully understand the logic that the predecessor went to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9550	Replica, Mr. Zoran Krasic. One announcement, the Legislative Committee will be held at 12 o'clock in a small hall, so a few minutes ago, is very important because of the large number of amendments. Be kind, this applies to members of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9551	Just to make things clear. You see, you didn't seem to understand me. It is the following, when a state authority is authorised to prescribe what is referred to in Article 33, the minimum amount of risk and liability insurance, then it is the authority of that State authority to directly influence something called the elemental conditions for the business of a single economic operator. These terms must be prescribed by law, and if the law is not prescribed, the only one who can do so is the Government, not the Ministry, that's the point. Don't worry, we understand the law on electronic signature and its dimensions, its range, and you haven't regulated business and you don't need to regulate business, but the definition of electronic signature, its capabilities, its significance are directly issues that affect the way you operate. You create this business in this way, especially create business. After this law, all banks will have to change their general terms under which they issue credit cards and communications certificates. You're going to have to form a certification body to issue these qualified electronic signatures, you're going to have to, because you're affecting them, you define them. So, the government can prescribe a minimum base of this insurance as a guarantee that this company that does this job fully meets all the conditions and that it can be a legal person to compensate for the damage caused by the client. If we leave it to the Ministry, it's not about the beauty of the minister now, but simply, the constitutional system knows something, the constitutional system for this says, it can only be about government jurisdiction. You see, we did not enter the technical aspects of this bill at all, but only what is in the jurisdiction of the legislative body.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9552	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9553	I think Mr. Krasic and I understand each other perfectly. So, as for the amendment to Article 11, and as for the discussion on Article 33, which followed by the amendment to Article 11, we were perfectly understood, and in no case did I say that I didn't think anyone understood this text of the law. I think we understand very well about the amendments to Article 11 and the discussion on Article 33, which followed the amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9554	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Gajic. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Science and Technological Development proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I submit an amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Signature, which requires that Article 18 paragraph 1 amends point 5: "that there are permanent staff with specialist skills in information, programming, cybernetics, with experience and professional qualifications necessary for the provision of electronic certification services, especially with regard to management skills, expertise in the application of electronic signature technologies and appropriate security procedures and the safe application of appropriate administrative and management procedures that are consistent with recognised standards". The proposed amendment of point 5) puts an emphasis on experts who are constantly dealing with the required business profile while preventing ad hoc companies from accessing such serious matter, thus ensuring the necessary preconditions for serious work on the design of electronic signatures and qualified electronic signatures, electronic certificates, as well as qualified electronic certificates and any law provided for in the data and means intended for the quality of the procedure and the functioning of the business with electronic signature.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9556	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Science and Technological Development proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is in accordance with the law, which is such an opinion in the SRS that this law should be clarified. In particular, Article 18 concerns the certification bodies and the conditions to be met by the certification body. So, in the first position, it is point 10), it is said, "it does not store and copy data for the formation of an electronic signature for persons on whose behalf it provides that service". We think that this point is quite unspeakable and in collapsing is this part that concerns data storage. As for copying, it's perfectly normal, but it doesn't need to be copied because they can be abused, but kept incompletely. So I'm saying he's in college with several members of the previous, starting with Articles 5, 7, 8, 9 and 17. I think it's most obvious in Article 5 that people who keep electronic documents that are signed electronically are obliged to store data and means to verify electronic signatures. So the said position of Article 18 and Article 5 are cohesion, as well as Article 7, where it is said that the qualified electronic signature is satisfied with the following conditions, so it is listed here, and follows: 4) is directly linked to the data in which it relates, in a way that unequivocally allows for insight into any change in the original data. So it's obvious that this point isn't fixed and that changes are necessary to make the law clearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9558	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The word now has Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9559	There's a difference between checking and forming. Here we are talking about tools that serve to form. When a locksmith forms a key, it makes sense that he won't copy it and won't keep it. Also, here the certification body, which will do the job, should not be copied, and I agree with that, should not even keep the tools, and it will be with each user. So, like when the key that the locksmith makes doesn't basically keep and doesn't copy any further. I understand exactly what you're saying. It's just that it's a problem not to leave extra data in a place where it can be misused. We don't think we should accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9560	National MP Srboljub Marinkovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Science and Technological Development proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Scientific and Technological Development Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Signature, it is said that Article 43 paragraph 1 of point 3 is amended and reads as follows: "copys the data for the establishment of an electronic signature for persons on whose behalf it provides the service (Article 18(1) point 10)". The proposed change in point 3 is punishable by the misuse of data, as we agree that the basic concern should be the secrecy of the data and must not be allowed in any way to abuse such data. This might not be necessary if we had no experience in Serbia over the past period, primarily the Democratic Party's criminal groups, along with the latest example related to the minister who shamed herself properly. That is why I think this is a very good provision, but also this amendment excludes the responsibility and punishment for the certification body for the necessary storage of these data on the basis of which the electronic signature is made up, as Article 18 paragraph 1 point 10 says that the certification body does not keep, etc. So, a little change.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9562	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a minister, Aleksandar Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9563	It's about the same problem we've already talked about. It's a tool to form. They should not be kept for that very reason, as they must neither be copied, precisely to avoid the possibility of possible abuse. It is related to Article 18, and unfortunately that amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9564	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal representative Dr Aleksandar Popovic, Minister of Science and Environmental Protection, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the State of the Republic of Serbia (the principles) You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović, Bozidar Koprivica, Petar Jojić, Mita Avramov, Srdjo Komazec, Vučeta Tošković, Vjerica Radeta, Miljko Četrović, Zlatan Jovanovic, Zoran Krasic, Branislav Rankić, Milorad Mirčić, Vitomir Plužarić, Goran Cvetanović, Radiša Ilic, Igor Bečić, Darko Glisic, Milan Vesenović, Branislav Stevanovic, Tomislav Penezić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Natasa Jovanovic, Milovanovic, Vojslav Milajić, Nemanja Sarović, Milan Stevović, Sreto Perić and Momir Marković. Amendments submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure until the opening of the search will be sent to you during the session. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Authorised persons for the fourth item of the agenda are for the Democratic Party of Serbia, Jovan Palalic, for the Democratic Party -- Boris Tadic Milan Markovic, for the Socialist Party of Serbia, Bojan Kekic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, I'm opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle. Does proposal representative Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9565	Dear President, the respected presidency, respected MPs, the Republic of Serbia is in a position to bring new legislation in the area of citizenship after 25 years, which would regulate the way in which the Republic of Serbia's citizenship ends. It is also important to point out that the Republic of Serbia is in a position for the first time since World War II to settle the issue in the area of citizenship on its own. We used to have two laws, a federal law on Yugoslav citizenship, and after the Constitutional Charter is held, it is applied as a general act of the Member States. In addition to the mentioned law on Yugoslav citizenship, whose solutions have been overcome because of changes in citizenship, Serbia is parallel to that of the other, also overcome, the Socialist Republic of Serbia Citizenship Act. The basic reason for access to a new law stems from a new constitutional concept set out in Article 7. The Constitutional Charter, which stipulates it is a citizen of a Member State and of a citizen of Serbia-Montenegro. According to the new mark of citizenship, it remains complex according to its structure, because it consists of the citizenship of a Member State and of the citizenship of Serbia-Montenegro, with the Member State's citizenship having primate, which has so far not been the case in such a complex system of citizenship. Nationality as a legal relationship between an individual and a state should be seen twice, as one of the fundamental human rights which gives the individual status which provides him the enjoyment of civil rights and state protection, but also as an instrument by which the state determines one of its constituent elements, i.e. the personal validity of the sovereign state authority and its legal order. In the preparation of the proposal for a law on citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, they were equally aware of the interests of the state, as well as the interests of the individual, whose protection is further provided by a number of international documents in the field of protection of human rights, and which are binding on our country. Although our country did not ratify the European Convention on Citizenship, which was adopted by the Council of Europe in 1997 and which came into force in 2000, as a member of the Council of Europe, we took special care of the comprehensive set of rules and principles and sensitivity of this area. In this respect, it was considered and complied with the fundamental principles of the Convention that everyone has the right to citizenship, that no one should remain without citizenship and that legislation should not contain solutions that make a difference and lead to discrimination based on gender, religion, race, skin color and national or ethnic origin. With all of this in mind, regulating the issue of acquisition and termination of citizenship of the Republic of Serbia's solutions contained in this bill should provide for the following: 1. a consistent legal establishment of the new mark of citizenship established by the Constitutional Charter, the 2nd Continuity of citizenship, 3rd prevention of the creation of apatride, i.e. that no one remains without citizenship, 4th that citizenship is a voluntary link and that everyone has the right to change citizenship and return to citizenship which he has previously left, 5th made it easier to obtain citizenship for certain categories of persons if there is a need for this, as well as the introduction of new institutes that allow those who so far have not been able to obtain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia to resolve this issue, 6th simplification of the procedure for the acquisition and termination of citizenship, so that the procedure is relieved of the current unnecessary formalism and administration. So far, I have to say, we've almost entered the discretion zone who can, but who can't give citizenship. Future citizenship, regardless of the basis of acquisition, is recorded only in birth certificates, and we will have a clear record of that. Finally, in order not to bother you with an explanation because this law has been talked about a lot, and you as MPs have considered quite seriously, it can be concluded that on the day of the application of this citizenship law, the Republic of Serbia in the area of citizenship will get modern, liberal, with international standards in line with our needs and interests and in line with our efforts to integrate into European integration. They were thinking that the law itself set itself quite wide. We couldn't accept that, because citizenship is and the obligation of the state and I am pleased that such a bill is fundamentally unchanged. Some amendments have been adopted, some have been rejected, but I can conclude that almost all amendments addressed to this bill have not essentially changed the structure and essence of the law. They didn't affect the matter of the law, they left it as it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9566	Thank you. I ask, do the officials of the committees want a word; the Committee of Justice and the Administration of Jovan Palalic? No, I don't. President of the Legislative Committee Milos Aligrudic? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the authorised representative of DSS Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9567	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, MPs, it is no doubt that there is one of the very important laws in this session of the National Assembly and the law on citizenship is such a law that regulates the question of the status of the person and his legal relationship with the state. The fact that a legal relationship creates a first contact and a relationship with a country of course can encourage that relationship to become a deeper cultural or spiritual relationship with the state concerned and, later on, to adopt the social values that exist in that country. In that sense, the law on citizenship can be said to represent Serbia, when its standards are analysed, as an open state. He is a liberal law, and the reason for the adoption of this law is very clear from the changed position of the state union of the Republic of Serbia in it, and after the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, most of the powers that were once laid down by the SRJ have now been transferred to the Republic of Serbia. The overall structure of the state community structure that was then created indicates that the change in the position of the Serbian state and the matter of citizenship has no doubt been placed in its jurisdiction. In that case, and that is what Mr. Minister said, the primate of a Member State, and in this case the Republic of Serbia, is important, because the acquisition of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia automatically achieves and the citizenship of the state union. There is no doubt that one of the principles highlighted here, which is preventing the formation of apatride, is very important and many of the conventions adopted in the European Union regulate the issue. We have, when the provisions of the law are analysed, a series of examples, adding by some members, in which way the issue is very concretely solved, the issue of preventing the formation of apatride. For example, we have a situation in Article 13, where it is said that the issue of obtaining citizenship by birth relates to those who do not have citizenship or are their parents without citizenship. This prevents the formation of apatride. Article 14(2) when it comes to obtaining citizenship through reception, and when it comes to foreigners, we have a situation where the issue of dismissal from citizenship is not regulated or regulated so that no confirmation is necessary if that person is left without citizenship. Article 45, which regulates the issue of the cancellation or termination of citizenship, speaks of the situation that the cancellation of the acquisition and termination of citizenship will not take place, or such a solution will not happen if that person to whom the issue would be left without citizenship. This qualification that this law combats the formation of apatride is very clearly seen through all the norms that are regulated by this law. What is important is the marking of the bill is the fact that those of our countrymen who are in dispersion and those of our countrymen who, because of the wars and policies of certain countries of the former Yugoslavia, have come to Serbia, now have the opportunity, clearly defined norms in this law, to gain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. It is one of the forms of integration of our countrymen into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. This is clearly regulated in Article 18, where it is said that the emigrant and his progeny can be admitted to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia if they are 18 and have not been deprived of their business capacity, and if they submit a statement that they consider Serbia as their country. One liberal provision, which refers to a spouse and a descendant, which allows all fellow Americans who are in a dissipation to gain the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. And very important provisions are regulated by Article 23 and the transitional and final provisions, which relate to our countrymen who have escaped from the territory of the former SFRY and who have been in Kosovo. We have a situation for our BiH countrymen to gain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia under a lot of liberal conditions. The provisions relating to the citizenship process are very simplified here, and that is one trend we had from the laws that were before this Parliament. The procedure is very simple and is being conducted, when it comes to obtaining citizenship through reception, in front of the interior ministry, in front of the competent authorities. It is very clear that on the basis of the request made within a very short period of time, the procedure is urgent, and brings a solution, and after delivery, the person is entered in the citizen's book. The good side of the law is that the issue of records is very simplified. We will no longer have those records that we had in the earlier period, but all the citizenship records will be kept in the parent books. That's good, because on the day of entry into force of this law, it stops entering all other records and starts enrolling in the parent books. The DSS believes that this is an excellent law and that, in a much more liberal sense, it allows the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia to be acquired in a much simpler way. In that sense, they will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9568	Does any other authorised representative want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Kekic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9569	Dear President, fellow MPs, honourable ministers, we have before us a law that regulates the citizenship of Serbian citizens and the citizenship of citizens of Serbia-Montenegro. Nationality, as a mark of statehood, is one of the basic human and civil rights. If we go back a little bit, due to the problem of disunity, i.e. the violent and unconstitutional secession of individual republics of the former SRJ and the emergence of new independent states in the area of the former Yugoslavia, the problem of citizenship in our country has long been inadequately solved, especially for certain categories of individuals and persons, such as refugees, exiles and displaced persons. The process of disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and the formation of new states has also forced us to bring the Constitutional Charter, which defines the problem of citizenship. Consistent with all international legal acts, the Convention, with the Constitutional Charter, came this law, which, above all, needs to be liberal, to allow all categories of persons to exercise their rights through citizenship. With all this in mind, it must be said that the proposed law, as well as the sublaws, which are directly in the direction of the Minister of Interior and the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, will make some progress in the resolution and problem of citizenship. This is primarily a consistent legal formation of the new mark of citizenship, the continuity of citizenship, the prevention of the formation of apatride i.e. persons without citizenship, etc. The provisions of this law represent the first step towards resolving the situation in this area, and it is certain that we will also be satisfied if citizenship records are managed in one place, i.e. to represent the right database for all state authorities and all state administrations. In a particular case, for now, by looking at the parent services that have issued their solutions to citizenship, we do not have certain problems, precisely because everyone is required, where there is no disputed situation, if they are submitted to 12,00 or 13,00 are solved in the same day, but the problem is that individual records are kept in different ways. So by 1980, there were registrations for citizenship by origin, and later there were certain changes. I must say that in one period after 2000, the Federal Ministry of Interior was responsible for enrolment, or for resolving the conflict of jurisdiction of the state authorities in the context of issuing a resolution on citizenship. There is a problem that will be solved through article 53 of this law, that all those requirements that will be filed after the entry into force of this law, and before 60 days of application of this law, will be regulated by this law. I would take advantage of the opportunity to express my dissatisfaction with the work of the state authorities. First of all, I think of the president of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro's state union, the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Council of Ministers, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as they did not react on November 28th when an Albanian flag was placed in the municipality of Presevo in the municipality of Serbia and none of the heads of state responded to the act. Surely such an example does not represent the mark of a particular country and certainly represents a certain violation not only of the attribute of statehood but also of certain moral standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9570	Please, the president of the SRS parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9571	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have yet another of the system laws that further edits one area. I'm not saying it wasn't arranged, but there really was a lot going on with the former SFRY, the SRS, the SRJ, and I hope we don't have to pass another law that would completely exclude this other Member State from the grounds for gaining citizenship. What bothers me in this bill? First of all, this emphasis - a citizen of another Serbia-Montenegro member state. The other member has a name and is called Montenegro. It's not a Member State to me. It is for you. There is a country for me and it's called Serbia-Montenegro, but come on. Don't at least irritate that rogobat complexion -- a citizen of another Serbia-Montenegro member state. I'd like to pay particular attention to two members. I think the Ministry ran over our remarks. Especially Article 45. Indeed, under the European Convention, it is allowed to repeal a solution to the entry into the book of citizens, the issue of citizenship, if counterfeiting has taken place, if the procedure was not in accordance with the law, if false documents or statements have been made. But, Mr. Minister, under article 45, you have provided for the authority of the Ministry of Interior to annul the erasure of citizenship. I understand that he cancels his citizenship enrolment and then you say, "If that means he's out of citizenship, he can't even get his citizenship annulled," but it's dangerous for you to undo a man's decision to wipe out his citizenship. You know what international agreements are like. In most cases, in order to gain citizenship from another country, you must bring in confirmation that you have been deleted from the country you are leaving. (Glass - that's not true. Except where there are agreements that there is dual citizenship, my dear lady. If our citizen has taken to America confirmation that he has been erased from SRJ citizenship, I suppose that there has not been a Serbia-Montenegro yet, it is a short time, but there may be such confirmations, and that was a condition to gain American citizenship, five years after that, undo his previous solution, undo his basis for gaining American citizenship. That's what you're informing the U.S. government about. The U.S. government is revoking the citizen's citizenship. And he's coming back to Serbia and it wasn't his wish, and Serbia has accepted his desire to get out of Serbia, agreed to it, gave him the papers he needs. If you do not want to delete this Article 45, then I would like to delete at least this "or the termination of citizenship". It'll cause a lot of trouble. The question of how many of our citizens with a certificate of termination of citizenship have acquired citizenship from another country. Furthermore, Article 52, whether it was necessary, he or Article 23, we can discuss it, but it could be regulated by one member. In principle, you have provided for two ways to gain citizenship for members of the Serb or other people, or for members of the former SFRY. One is an automatic entry per Article 23. Of course, in a written statement, the second request for registration is if he had a registered residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia for at least ten years. I don't know, we in the SRS parliamentary group suspected the number ten, convinced that it had been deliberately written for ten years, so that it wouldn't be affected by this enrollment in citizenship and the persons that the Croats had driven out with the "Storm", and you can reassure us. However, the government's response to this amendment is not clear to me. The government says it does not accept the amendment because, on this basis, refugees and exiled persons cannot resolve the issue of their citizenship, because they do not have a regular residence in the Republic of Serbia, but only reside. The member refers to persons with a regulated residence in the Republic of Serbia, who found themselves on the territory of the Republic of Serbia on the day of the collapse of the previous SFRY. What day of the fallout of the previous SFRY? Does the ministry have a date I don't know anything about? What date does Serbia officially declare as the date of the break-up of the previous SFRY? Is it the formation of the SRJ, is it the recognition of Croatia by the Vatican or by Germany, or is it perhaps the requirement of Vojislav Kostunica that the SRJ be admitted to the United Nations? I'm really interested, but this is a serious ministry, which I congratulate on exposing the DS affair and its media agents and convincing Serbian citizens that honest people are safe unless the government attacks them. I repeat, I congratulate the MUP on a job well done. I'm interested in this serious ministry if it's possible for this kind of authority to get into a law that regulates the fates of hundreds of thousands of people. Don't make them feel like exiles to us here, too. Croatia does not take them back. He's talking about receiving them. He boasts about the world, but whoever goes gets a bomb in the alley or gets beaten up. That's not where Serbian life is based, there's no birthright. (Dear Jocic, from the scene: We accept to reduce 10 years. Then I don't have to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9572	National MP Miloljub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. For those who haven't heard, in fact, a suggestion has been accepted in 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9573	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. This way we round up and regulate one of the basic human and civil rights. If we look at the work of this assembly, the serious work of lawmaking, certainly all the activities of this assembly will slowly tighten the ring about the adoption of a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So all these laws we're making are actually telling us one thing. The time has come to make a consensus on the highest legal act in this country. As far as the law on citizenship is concerned, it is clear that citizens of the Republic of Serbia have citizenship on the basis of the first member of the Republic of Serbia, and from whom the citizenship of the state union arises. In this way, and if there are changes in the future, it is very easy to make changes and additions, and the existing nationality remains unchanged. Therefore, the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia in Article 6 is obtained by birth in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, by reception and by international contracts. In the MUP, we have a huge number of requests in the services for citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, so I guess some of these things and further relieve the administrative way of obtaining citizenship, because we have witnessed that many displaced, evasive persons, who have found refuge here in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, have applied for citizenship and have waited for it for years. I guess even the various mechanisms people try, so they call on this guy or that guy, they try to get to their right, because somewhere on the home hearth, they lose him. That way, I think this law will in a more successful, faster way to regulate the rights of our citizens. Here it is described in Article 7 in which citizenship is derived from origin, etc. By the way, the whole law has tried to comply with international standards and regulations in this area. In this way many citizens will feel that we are taking care of them, they will feel like real citizens of this country, because we are giving them the opportunity to start using other rights that come out of this right. G17 plus will support this bill. Of course, we also call on other political parties to support this law, because everything that goes in favour of citizens, and it is in line with the EU, world standards, is supported by G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9574	Is there another authorised representative or does the president want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SPS, SRS, G17 plus, DSS and one SDP MP. I give my word to the MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, and the next is MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9575	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People, it is a good thing this law is on the agenda today. Had it been luck, it would have been on the agenda of one of these bodies, or the National Assembly, at a time when the SFRY was falling apart, because I think many of the problems then occurred precisely because of the lack of hearing of the state. Such a liberal law, such as this, is necessary, because many people who have natural rights, under this law now defined as citizens of Serbia, have spent years without that right. Their lives were much worse than they normally could have been, so I think that this law, which is now here before us, was supposed to have been luck and wits, much earlier to be found before the MPs of this respected home. However, there is no doubt that it is necessary to pass a new regulation that would regulate the area of citizenship in order to align the rules in this area with the Constitutional Charter of the State Community and the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter. Furthermore, in order to comply with international standards contained in the conventions, and above all in the European Convention on Citizenship, to which the legislator and the call are given. Otherwise, the basic principles of the 1997 European Convention on the acquisition of citizenship are that each person has the right to citizenship and is to prevent the formation of apatride, or of a stateless person, and that no one should be automatically deprived of his or her nationality. The following text of the Convention contains a series of rules for the implementation of these principles, but also exceptions where the principles declared cannot be met. It is quite clear that the proposal for this law really facilitates the conditions for obtaining citizenship, enables dual citizenship, extends the circle of the person to gain citizenship and establish the keeping of records. However, by analysing this law, I have come to the realization that there are several members in the proposal for this law, namely three members, who are well relativated in this law and who allow the self-will of state authorities, in this case by the MUP. One of these three disputed members is even directly contrary to the established legal order of our country, but also to international conventions, more specifically the European Convention on the acquisition of citizenship, which you are calling upon, is Article 45. I'll use the time I have to tell you in principle what I think is the problem. In Article 45, it is defined that it is necessary to maintain the right to citizenship or to annul a decision that you have made on the basis of a statement by someone that they wish to give up citizenship if, if so, you state that, on the basis of a false or falsified statement or a statement based on incorrect facts or other abuses and irregularities in the conduct of the procedure, that is to say, a decision on the annulment of the acquisition or termination of citizenship will be made for such a person registered in the register of nationals. The 2nd point states that the solution to the acquisition and termination of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia cannot be annulled if the persons of the 1st article remain without citizenship, i.e. become apatrides. Here you are calling for the 1997 Convention, which defines the 7th member with the title – loss of citizenship under the law or the initiative of the State of the Contracting Party. It is said nicely that the legislator is obliged to dismiss all those provisions that one person leaves without citizenship, if applicable. I do not know whether the failure of anyone who has analysed this Convention clearly states that the acquisition of state citizenship is a fraud, using false information or hiding any relevant facts that may be prescribed by the applicant must condition the immediate annulment of the decision previously made, when it was not taken into account that the fraud or counterfeit was concerned. You have this undermining in that article where the State Contracting State, which is a member of the Council of Europe, cannot predict its internal right to lose citizenship based on all these views that have been defined here, and unless the application of this law would make the person an apatrid, except for cases I mentioned, if it was used by some fraud, counterfeiting and such things. Not only do you dissuade our Criminal Law and the General Administrative Procedure Act by this Article 45, but also the Convention which strictly states that, in this very case alone, the right to citizenship should be taken away or the decision that the person has requested that citizenship be denied. My right, since I have submitted an amendment to that article, I will use additionally to assure you that a mistake has been made to give legitimacy to a criminal act, and this cannot be the basis, even when a person is left without citizenship.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9576	Thank you. The People's Messenger Ivica Dacic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the SPS will, as Bojan Kekic said as an authorised representative for this item of the agenda, vote for this item of the agenda. We think this area is very important. We believe that there is currently a large number of citizens living in the Republic of Serbia without the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, the large number of citizens are located in areas that are problematic both from the security aspect and from the aspect of the separatist tendencies that exist in some environments. Also, a number of Serbian national citizens do not have citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, and it is therefore important that we approach this area not only from the aspect of compliance of this law with some international standards and EU legislation, but also from the aspect of the concrete interests of the Republic of Serbia and the Serb people in general. That's why I think the M.O.P. here was guided by the principle of soil, or territory. Nationality can be achieved in two ways, by line of soil and by line of blood. Given all that has been happening to the Serbian people throughout the past century, we must enable all Serbs, wherever they live and wherever they have citizenship, to have the right to double citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's a very important thing and it's very important that only the interpretation of this law and the implementation of this law be such that it makes it possible, but that one of the conditions for obtaining citizenship should not be a release from previous citizenship. Hungarians hold a referendum in Hungary on dual citizenship in December. I don't know if our country knows anything about it or whether it's doing anything about it. I'm talking about the government and the president of Serbia as holders of the executive government. There is a number of Serbs who have been expelled from Croatia, expelled from BiH, who need to be resolved the issue of citizenship and have been resolved in the past years, but not entirely. There is a number of Serbs living in the Western countries that have Serbian origin, who do not have a residence, whose parents did not live in the Republic of Serbia, who also care about having Serbian citizenship, without having to live in Serbia and do not have to leave the country's citizenship. I think that solutions should be found that will be tolerated, first of all I am talking about the Serbian issue, because a large number of Serbs live outside Serbia and, if they could be measured in percentages, it could be said that this number is very high and that some cities abroad are also spoken of, that there are more Serbs living in them than in some cities in Serbia. On the other hand, you know that some surrounding countries have very rigorous conditions for gaining citizenship, such as Croatia, which, in the opinion of the Council of Europe and in the opinion of the European Parliament, meets international human rights standards. The fourth and fifth conditions for obtaining citizenship under their law on Croatian citizenship are to know Croatian language and Latin letter. The fifth point is that his behaviour can conclude that he respects the legal order and customs in the Republic of Croatia and accepts Croatian culture. These appear to be European standards, as this is positively defined by the European Parliament and the Council of Europe. You wrote here that a foreigner who accepts Serbian citizenship should sign a statement that he recognises the Republic of Serbia. I don't know exactly what the formulation is, to recognize the state of Serbia as its own. That's fine, but I also give you concrete examples, much more rigorous. These are examples that are incomparable to our examples. How many of our citizens who do not know the Serbian language, who do not know the Cyrillic letter. How many of our citizens who don't think to learn Serbian and have our citizenship. I'm not saying we should act like Croatia. We don't have a Croatian role model. Croatia is not our goal. Then why should we aim at those who respect Croatia as our role model. All in all, I think we need to take more care of our national and state interests, and in this sense there is no reason for the MUP not to apply more rigorous conditions when it comes to the acquisition of citizenship. Also, the MUP should take certain measures against those located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and not Serbian citizens. I'm not talking about strangers, tourists and others who work here or stay here, etc. I'm talking about those who live here, and they're not our citizens. But whose citizens are they? Take an example of Bujanovec, Medvedje, Presheva, where you and today have a situation that they talk about 50 percent of their population being expelled from Bujanovac. You have a situation to, as is said, highlight Albanian flags, the flag of the Albanian state on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Nobody takes it off. The past composition of the MUP has arrested those who have removed Croatian flags in Belgrade, the truth from diplomatic representations. Remove that flag, because it's the flag of the Albanian state. Also, you know that there are some people in our country, there were, I don't know if there are any more in the state administration, who are working in the highest state places and do not have Serbian citizenship, and as far as possible. You know that some officials existed and were later admitted to our citizenship. You know that for every MP, it is a condition to run for citizenship, and for the highest-ranking state officials and advisors of the highest state officials, that is not a condition. So, there's a lot of things to take account of, and it's not just the text of the law, it's the behavior of the MUP and other state bodies. Of course, there are also some of our citizens who by their behavior do not contribute much to the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, but there is nothing we can do to fire them from our citizenship, because it is not a rule anywhere and it is forbidden, because everyone must have citizenship. You know how, you have some citizens who are in high state functions and are jeopardizing state and national interests. You have been saying here for years that the obstacle to normalising Serbia's relations, the SPS, the SRS, and it turns out that the president of Serbia is hitting cars in US Embassy vehicles and their officials. The State Department confirmed the views of Minister Jocic tonight, but I have to apologize to you, I don't think these are your views, but the views that are in line with the State Department, so it's a traffic incident. If I'm wrong, correct me, it doesn't matter. The U.S. administration said that last night. We have statements in today's newspaper that it's not a shame for these people to talk like that. Take a look at the statements, to start with the most banignant, to start with Marko Nicovic – most likely Tadic attacked so-called. The anti-Hastian brotherhood, therefore, due to a move towards the necessity of sending Serbs indicted by the tribunal. I didn't know the anti-Hast brotherhood was represented at the U.S. Embassy. Also, you have a Serbian President Tadic who says in today's newspaper -- he wants to kill me. Who wants Tadic to kill? So, the U.S. Embassy security officer. You have, further, Dragoljub Micunovic's statements, which says it is an assassination attempt on Boris Tadic, that he is the already seen scenario and that all of this reminds in the time of the rule of Socialists and radicals. Excuse me, please, we didn't have traffic incidents with them. We've had much more serious discussions. Also, you have DS, which says it has requested from Serbia's MUP, as well as all security institutions, to reveal the identity of the participants of yesterday's attack as soon as possible. That identity has been revealed, and can I ask you something now, Minister, was anyone else in that famous car or was he alone, except for the puppy, was there a living being, because what if there was an American diplomat in the car? Let me ask you frankly, what if it weren't for a man working at the US Embassy, but at the Russian embassy? I think it's a very unserious thing, but it's not appropriate to the institution of the President of the Republic. Unfortunately, some of you supported him, and that's what you need. As for the other statements, Svetozar Marovic says – those who still think they can remove those who want to make progress must know that it will be devilishly difficult. So, the U.S. wants to remove all those who want to make progress on this country. Also, Vuk Draskovic says -- it is a dramatic warning and that the terrorist structures of Milosevic's regime are back in action. I don't know, he asks Vuk Draskovic of Prime Minister Kostunica and the resolution ministries that the attacker and organiser of the attacks on Tadic be urgently discovered and that the BIA, police and judiciary are immediately cleared of Milosevic's people. Let the US Embassy, the CIA, the FBI get rid of Milosevic's men. Of course, there is also a statement by Vladan Batic, the famous minister of justice, who wanted to impose a death sentence; he knows, he says, that it is not according to European standards, but only to be valid for five hours, only to kill all those who do not respond to us, so we will go back to European standards. Unfortunately, there is no criminal record against the minister, and there are criminal charges by Tadic against Kostunica, and that's your business, that's where you rule. As for this Batic, he says -- the attack is another confirmation that Serbia is Balkan Colombia and the banana republic, where crime has returned and acts out of its power. Well done, this contributes to the normalisation of Serbia and America's relations. Cedomir Jovanovic says, everyone is united, everyone says so, so he says – we are all Tadics. We've always known that they were all the same, only they wanted to be presented differently. He says this - the attack on Topcider Star warns us that Serbia from the past does not choose funds to achieve its goal. Well done, good relations with America are past. Nenad Canak says this -- the assassination attempt on Serbian President Boris Tadic, therefore, was carried out by the same ones who killed Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. So security at the US Embassy committed the murder of Zoran Djindjic. This is a disgrace to what is happening in this Serbia. Such statements confirm all the inconclusive political elite that is allegedly on the scene of Serbia's elite. They should apologize today to the citizens of Serbia, the US Embassy. Of course, Boris Tadic shouldn't apologize to anyone, because as far as we're concerned, we all know what he's like, but he should resign because he threatens Serbia's interests. Serbia's vital interests are good relations between Serbia and the United States, which it has endangered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9578	I thank the People's MP, Ivica Dacic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9579	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if it's good to make a joke about something that's very serious. It is extremely incomprehensible to me that when the topic of the agenda is the law on citizenship, the head of a parliamentary group comes out here, reads headlines from newspapers and makes jokes about something that is extremely serious. Do you really think that the citizens of Serbia and we of the Democratic Party believe Mr. Jocic that this was just one commercial passenger like the one on the highway? Are you aware of what you're even laughing at? I don't know what makes you so upset about what happened last night. Maybe you're sorry something more serious didn't happen? The only thing we could find out yesterday was that our police were unable to find out who the person involved was 24 hours ago. The only thing I understand from yesterday's press conference, Minister Jocic, is that we should thank the US Embassy for letting us know who the man who took part in the incident. That aversion and that hatred that you MPs are showing to the President of the Republic, that your desire to repeat what happened in March, that your throwing, your laughing, I don't know what this looks like, that's more about you and the shame and shame that you've done to this National Assembly and this country. Mr Dacic, you should be ashamed of what you said about the pay phone in your presentation, just like the chairman of Mr Angelkovic, who allowed the President of the Republic to be offended in this way, to make fun of something that needs to be talked about more seriously. As inconclusive as all this is, it is seen from the fact that, although it has not been determined who the gentleman is, apart from the name and last name, which caused the incident, it has not been reconstructed. I don't know what kind of grace you're building here. You're just lucky you found the opportunity to make fun of the institution of the President of the Republic, the National Assembly and the citizens who are watching this. I sincerely hope you will not have the satisfaction you had on 11 March and you from the Democratic Party of Serbia will not be able to worship the Palace of Justice and elsewhere. Boris Tadic, we hope, will not experience the fate experienced by Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9580	First of all, I don't know what happened on March 11th. I guess it was March 12th. Secondly, please let me get this straight about one thing. This Parliament respects the President of the Republic in the same way as the President of the Republic respects Parliament's decisions. As much as he respects Parliament's decisions, we've seen it in the past month. Third, Mr. Dacic was quoting, didn't say anything. He only quoted statements that become someone and who are all Serbian citizens. I think that was in line with the subject. You spoke about the Rules of Procedure, I did not interrupt you even though you did not call on any member of the Rules of Procedure, nor did you quote that member. I realized that you still used your right to reply, even though you had no right to do so, but I think we need to ensure tolerance in this assembly, and that's why I did it. Since you mentioned Mr. Dacic, he has the word Mr. Dacic, and then a few more MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9581	I have the right to a replica, since Mr. Markovic was talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. When I started speaking, the chairman was Parliament Speaker Markovic. I do not know if anyone has tolerated or not my presentation, in no way have I mentioned Boris Tadic and the role of the president of the Republic in an insolent interpretation, but I was talking about what some high-ranking political party officials have said about the alleged assassination. As far as I'm concerned, I was just quoting everything I said. I also quoted the State Department. You may not believe it, but I respect what the State Department said. He said it was a traffic incident and admitted that the incident was made by an embassy worker and ordered him to co-operate with our authorities. I read that on the Internet last night. So if the Democratic Party wants to make an assassination out of this, the assassination story, I don't mind. I can't find a connection between Milosevic's murderers and US Embassy security workers. I can't find a connection between some alleged past and the American embassy. I can't find the connection you're talking about. You're talking about Europe, world integration, NATO, and you're not going to network into a system of links and security with the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, what Mr. Markovic was saying is embarrassing, that he honors someone else with the alleged joy of killing Zoran Djindjic. You are well aware that the Socialist Party of Serbia, and I suppose the vast majority of all other parties, expressed condolences about the case and today we believe it is a tragedy for the Republic of Serbia, but do not accuse us of killing Djindjic. Canak said he was killed by the same ones who now tried to kill Tadic. As far as we're concerned, I don't think the glasses were raised in connection with Djindjic's murder in some parties, but perhaps in some criminal clans. As far as that goes, who you hung out with, who you did business with, who you ran business with, who you came to power with, that's how you passed. As for that, the Socialist Party of Serbia once again says that Serbia's president must be provided as well as all other institutions, but this is not about the assassination, according to it, of a traffic incident. So says the State Department. Is there anything in this I should be ashamed of, as Mr. Markovic says? No, I don't. You're ashamed of yourself, Mr. Markovic, because you're making a farce out of something that wasn't an assassination. You are ashamed because you lie to Serbian citizens that Tadic's life was at stake, and ask the question raised by the incident. Did the incident trigger Tadic's security or an American embassy worker? So let's not talk about it now. I'd make fun of this subject if I said I'd report on this subject to the animal protection point, because it was stress when it all happened. That's not what I'm saying. I'm just paying attention to what the politicians said. They should be ashamed of what they have said, because they lie to Serbian citizens, they lie when they say there are criminal groups and murderers that come from the time of Milosevic, who are today killing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9582	Mr. Dacic, four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9583	They're lying, and that's why I called, to make a mockery of their statement. I don't know how these people are feeling today who said all this yesterday, and if you want, I can read it all again. How does Canak feel today when he said yesterday that those who killed Djindjic tried to kill Tadic, when he knew it was an American embassy worker? How does Vuk Draskovic feel when he says, to quote him not to sue me, "if the terrorist structures of Milosevic's regime are back in action". I think it's a very serious thing. These are serious things, the behaviour of state institutions, political party managers and responsibilities for what is public and for what is publicly said. We have no responsibility for such a thing and it deserves to be mocked. The fact that you'll... (President: Mr. Dacic, five and a half minutes. )......................................................................................................... He deserves a serious warning and deserves a MUP response.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9584	Replica, MP Prophetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9585	I would like to remind you that today, after 25 years in the Serbian Parliament, we are talking about the adoption of a system law, about solving the problem of hundreds of thousands of people in our country, the accidents that have been evicted from Croatia, BiH, and some of them from some of the territories of Serbia that are under the administrative control of international organisations. This is proof that the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to move forward. This is proof that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to make life easier for its citizens, to acquire and achieve certain rights that they have not had so far, but even if the Government is trying to do so, it is obvious that there are others who, at the expense of day-to-day politics, might want to destroy the institutions of the system and the elemental things that every country must have. Last night around 18.30 hours, when I came home, I looked at CNN news, the first news in the foreign policy section was about happening in Ukraine, and the second news was the assassination of Boris Tadic. Four minutes went by, and, of course, everything's been denied later, but the question is who's going to invest in this country now from America or any other country in the English speaking area, who's closely following CNN, who's going to invest in this country, who's going to invest in this country. Gentlemen, don't cause your day-to-day political ratings to destroy the state. He'll come back to you sooner or later, but he'll be back to the state by now. That wasn't enough either, so Mr. Micunovic blamed the DSS yesterday at a press conference that she was preparing an assassination on Boris Tadic, with shame and shame. I call upon you all to return to this topic and discuss the law on citizenship, and to try to facilitate the status of hundreds of thousands of refugees and exiles in this country, and no longer to bring down the state rating in international circles, to facilitate our country's position in international relations, and if we are to discuss the worship and a series of lies that have been made out of this pay phone, I must tell you that no one from the DSS has ever been in Schiller or Surcin. Who was in Schiller, who was in Surcin just prior to the murder of late Prime Minister Djindjic, who worshiped immediately before the murder of late Prime Minister Djindjic and Surcin and Schiller, I hope that the investigation will determine and hope that these people will be brought to justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9586	Replica, MP Free Zivkucin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9587	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, but first of all, Mr. Chairman, I object and advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 97, because it is said to be spoken in the National Assembly about the item on the agenda. I will remind you, that is one basis, and the other is that it is mentioned in the negative context of Vuk Draskovic, who is the president of the SPI, and as an authorised speaker on this agenda point, and as a man who belongs to the SPO-NS Parliament Club, of course I will respond. Today, a serious, important system law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is on the agenda, and we are at this moment making such a serious and important law a mockery and trying to joke with it, turning that story on another topic. I remind you that today, at this time, it is not on the agenda to determine the truth about the possible assassination of Serbian President Boris Tadic, today it is not on the agenda or the formation of a survey board on the possible determination of the truth about the possible assassination, today it is not on the agenda or an independent commission, today none of it is on the agenda, but apparently someone has found a motive to re-establish with one such serious thing, such as the night before last, pranksters. Do not be surprised at the fact that these people mentioned here today, including Vuk Draskovic, stated what they said, because in a not long time ago we have a very bitter and bad experience with many assassinations, unfortunately, in most of the successful assassinations. We have experience that even that incredibly tragic crime at the Ibaric Master's office was first characterized as an ordinary car accident in which, behold, a truck was accidentally... Mr. Zivkucin, what does that have to do with the subject? )......................................................................................................... He killed those big people. We will not forget the reason that Dejan Milenkovic – Bagzi was released on the grounds that, behold, he was a merchant, so he might be denied a living room and was released... Mr. Zivkucin, what does this have to do with a replica? )......................................................................................................... And now we're surprised what people in this country are saying and assuming what they're assuming. Because we have a tragic and sad experience with numerous and still unexplained crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9588	Mr. Zivkucin, I have to ask you, first, you've exceeded your time, and secondly, you've started discussing things that aren't on the agenda, and thirdly...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9589	Mr. Chairman, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure and I think you've seriously hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9590	The Rules of Procedure that you...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9591	I have to draw your attention to that and I have to point out ladies and gentlemen to the MPs for an attempt to abuse this pay phone today. Because there's a possibility that a parliamentary club can be organised and that it requires the formation of any commission, depending or other, to examine, say, this case from the night before last. Whether it is necessary or not, a congregation majority may decide. Please don't use a dictionary like this, which brings us back to the time that I want to believe is behind us. Please let us call our minds and get back to the agenda, and let us not share stories about who he is and what motives he had in the night before last. It's serious. It's not a joke, like many people have been used to doing for over 10 years. We can only talk seriously about serious matters, and this congregation speaker is just an opportunity to do so. Thank you and, Chairman, please return the discussion to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9592	I thank you, Mr. Zivkucin, only you didn't help us get back on the subject, but you were opening some new questions. Allow me to quote a member who mentioned that he has been violated, Article 97 – if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. That's why I thought you'd be entitled to the replica for mentioning Vuk Draskovic. If an offensive statement is made regarding a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MP is, the president of the parliamentary group has on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. The decision referred to in cases 1 and 2 of this article shall be taken by the President of the National Assembly and shall take three minutes. That's why I gave you the replica. I don't think that member's been broken. When it comes to offensive expressions, Mr Dacic quoted statements and in no way talked about anyone else, only quoted statements that were. I hope that we will return to the agenda, and for the sake of the public and Mr Markovic, the Prime Minister was not killed on 11 March, but on 12 March and more for not forgetting that date. Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9593	I know well when the president of my side was killed, Dr. Zoran Djindjic, and there is no need to warn me. It was a slip. I know this well because unlike most in this House, I remember it as a tragic day, unlike the DSS and the SPS, I remember it as a tragic day.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9594	I'm sorry, I just wanted to correct what you've now accepted - that you've made a slip. I'll take it it's a slip, but for the public's sake, I said it. According to Ivica Dacic’s Rules of Procedure, i.e. the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9595	Since Mr Markovic also mentioned the SPS, I have the right to a replica as head of the parliamentary club. I want to say first and foremost to all MPs - MPs should take care of what they say. I don't know what I gave any negative connotation about some politician I mentioned, except for quoting what they said. If that's negative, that's already their problem. Well, I can't be guilty of them saying yesterday something that's stupid today. Oh, it's stupid. So I'm not talking anymore. I'm not saying this on purpose right now, but I want to get things back to square one -- why did we have to talk to the team about this kind of thing right now and do it to Serbia? It's a question that everyone, first of all, needs to clear up. If you want, I can quote everything they said again, but in order not to burden you with it again, you can read it all nicely. Those statements were yesterday's, they came out in today's paper. You do, it's gonna come out today and the State Department's statement about it, and I'm really asking you not to mess with the SPS in this stuff. And as for what Mr. Markovic just said, does anyone remember it as a tragic day or not, I don't know, I haven't noticed that there are any leftovers in the DS leadership. Don't convince us now. Everyone has the right to think about everything they want, but everyone thinks it's a tragic day for Serbia when its prime minister is killed. A tragic day would have been if Boris Tadic had been assassinated, but he didn't, and that's why it's a happy day for Serbia. A happy day for Serbia because we saw that the president was not threatened by danger, but also because it was seen that many things that someone easily says about Serbia, about the system of government in Serbia, about some alleged murderers who exist in Serbia, are lies that harm the state and this people. That's it, and no one's gonna tell me what I'm gonna say about this pay phone. I was chosen by the people. I answer to the people and the strangers who run me. I respect the rest, but for what he says here, as you know, no one can answer under the Constitution of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9596	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9597	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. I'm referring to article 100. I would ask my colleagues not only for this part of the agenda, but for all the things that have in some way aroused Serbia, to be upset, to take care of what we're saying from this pay phone. I understand some colleagues who, because of their party or other interests, want to cover the disinformation spoken from their ranks yesterday by replacing thesis and one pathetic speech, calling and joining memories of some previous period and of the man you respected colleagues least have the right to speak of, because on the basis of his infrastructure you have formed a new party, and do not fail to mention the argument that you call upon such a man. Besides, it'd be better, more honorable and more honest, if you could get out of this phone booth in front of the party or in front of the president and tell me what the real truth is. You wanted to take advantage of one, in any case, a silent event for party propaganda. That's not how you do it. You need to check the information. You've got to check it out. Secondly, when given to the public, leave it to the public and the competent authorities on the basis of this information to find a solution as soon as possible. You deliberately denied information. First of all, you humiliated the people who were in the president's security, not knowing or deliberately forgetting the fact that he chose his own security, and regardless of what the MUP insisted that the Republican MUP provide the president, his insistence was to do so by Cobra. Therefore, don't underestimate these people who have done their job on a professional basis. When you're faced with the fact that the public needs to know the truth, then you've started manipulation again. Why? Because you're not pictured, you members, if you're the same faction, the same party, who did it and where the person was employed. When you heard it was the American embassy, earlier in your second faction, fear was when it was said to be Germany, you were blocked, and now you're blocking from America. It doesn't matter which state the embassy works for, but you should have asked your top party -- where that man works, who he is, and what motive he was to do. As for these former cases, my dear colleagues, I help you - ask your family's lawyer Draskovic why he filed a criminal complaint against Zoran Djindjic for the Ibar highway. And to us, Serbian radicals, it doesn't occur to us to laugh when we're discussing issues like this. We are not like you, individuals, colleagues who are also in this conference, when Vojislav Seselj from this pay phone gave you serious information about Veruović and sypmatically speaking - a burgion, you laughed. Now look at the role that Veruovic played, what he did and how he did it. If you hadn't laughed now, if nothing else, you'd have at least had a clear conscience when it came to Zoran Djindjic's fate, but you were all laughing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9598	Mr. Mircic, please bring the end, it's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9599	I'm sorry, I'm done. And you making mistakes don't transfer any of the MPs' groups. We Serbian radicals always take such information seriously and think about them most seriously, because it is not about the name and last name -- Boris Tadic, but it is about the function he performs. They're citizens. Well, imagine what they're thinking based on your information from a party conference yesterday. How only they will be protected. Who in the right and honest way will represent them, if you, by falsifying information and facts, act on that same public by harassing her, by wanting to earn political points in this unrest. These are also too serious conversations, and too serious things, and it needs to be done preventively.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9600	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Prorokovic, a replica of Milan Markovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9601	Mr. Markovic, I've seen the late Prime Minister Djindjic a few times, say, a dozen times. Although I disagreed with him on many issues, I think I had a more correct relationship with him than half of DS. Zoran Djindjic was not only the president of the DS, he was the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and his murder is a tragic act for the entire Republic of Serbia, I agree with his policy or not, disputed with some of his decisions, that is, a great tragedy for our country. It's Christian to let him rest in peace. If you want to resurrect Zoran Djindjic, resurrect him by resurrecting his ideas, the policy he advocated, by bringing his character and work closer to some future generations. Don't dig it up again. What you do is called necrophilia. It's not delicious at all, and with your performances and how you insult others. You have to run a necrophilic policy, you have to because you are completely disoriented as a party, and for God's sake and disorientation Boris Tadic as president of the Republic. You don't know what you're going to do with the state community, you don't know what you're going to do about Kosovo and Metohija, you don't know what kind of policy you're going to lead in the future in Vojvodina. It is your right to continue with such a policy, and it is our right to consider following such insults as we have received from you whether or not we will go anywhere in any coalition with the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9602	National MP Milan Markovic, a replica to Mr Mircic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9603	I can only tell you that the same way you laughed, the same way you were ossions, the same way you were insolent, and then when that unfortunate merchant, Bagzi, tried to assassinate Prime Minister Djindjic on the highway. That's the first thing. Another thing, Mr. Prophetovic, don't give yourself such meaning, you could never speak to Mr. Djindjic evenly, and not just you from the DSS, you know exactly what we DS think about your role in these events, don't you worry about his character and his work. As for yesterday's statements, Mr Boris Tadic said yesterday he would make a statement after a statement by the authorities, primarily the MUP. I don't know if you've seen it, but I think it is all Serbia. As for the other statements, they are solely the result of the silence of the MUP, which lasted 24 hours, silence and fear of repeating something that had already happened once, and do not be sure that it was the maneuvering of one driver upset, who was a little nervous, so he followed the column of the vehicle of the President of the Republic. Just think about whether there is any driver in Serbia and Belgrade who would be pissed off and follow a kilometer of the President of the Republic and fly a little left-right, a little bang and eventually run away. You are too sure of that, as you were too sure and that Bugsy is a commercial passenger, who, by chance, lost control of the vehicle on the highway in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9604	Please, we're all taking care of each other. There's a sequence. The minister has a word, but before that, one sentence. One thing is certain, that those who see themselves constantly and when it rains that it is because of the rest of Milosevic's regime, that this doesn't seem to have anything to do with it. Therefore, at least I ask Mr. Zivkucin and the others not to connect with it anymore and to take care of what public officials say. The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9605	First of all, I'd like to ask you to get back on the subject, get back to the law. But I can't help but answer what's being put on as a grudge. You know, when something needs to be discovered, then the truth doesn't stand in the drawer, so you can get to it, so you can open it, get it out. The MUP has been constantly informing Boris Tadic and his cabinet chief of what's going on. I called Mr. Rakic first right after the accident, and he told me himself it wasn't a big deal. After that, in the morning, they kept going towards Boris Tadic's cabinet. What's the problem, I'm going to say now, because from the security of Boris Tadic and the Military Intelligence Service, no news arrived until nine o'clock in the evening. We had help on that side to determine all the facts, but I have to tell you when it comes to such a thing, then the procedure is very complex. Even 91 cars must be tested, found, all phone conversations that were conducted from London's move to the Topcider Star must be searched, paired and searched for all those numbers that were then communicating, how much they were communicating at the base stations, and that they were all being examined. It's just that it's the whole truth. The only fact that has not come has not come from the security of Boris Tadic. Let's not talk about it, but I'm telling you again, you're very fast and your politics was fast, things just can't be solved by saying right now, to find out. It must pass time, especially in police work, and especially when it was a sign that it was a serious matter, which is the assassination of the Serbian president, who was not fortunate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9606	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9607	This is about a violation of the dignity of the Republic of Serbia. So, we had a government that reacted to Zoran Djindjic's murder by posting photos of all the killers within half an hour, arresting 200 people within three days, arresting 12,000 people within 40 days. You don't know who killed Zoran Djindjic today. Today I heard again the accusation that you're all going over here, that the DSS is accusing the DSS of taking part in it. That's what the head of the DS parliamentary group said. Why don't you go out with the data sometime? It's about a new event where the police didn't announce anything for 15 hours, and then she said everything that happened. I'm more concerned with those who tell the whole truth in 15 hours than those who know everything in half an hour, and then they find out they didn't know anything. I'm more likely for those witnesses to be found alive than for those with whom witnesses are found with a rifle gun next to them, killed. One thing I just don't know. Is the car a dog or a man with a beard? Did the dog have any bought ears? It's a lot of decisions, you bought, they're villains, maybe they're the ones who were screaming at the wheel.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9608	Can we move to order? Zoran Krasic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9609	Since we are finally on the subject of the law, I think the legislator of this law has easily moved over some of the questions that are standard when it comes to citizenship regulations. The fundamental objection to this law can be pointed out, that it is not clear to the end whether this law regulates citizenship as a status, as a right belonging to a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, or regulated as a corpus of the rights arising from citizenship. That remark can be seen in almost all the provisions of this bill. I would specifically say, in this discussion, I do not want to mention members covered by the amendments to the SRS. For example, in Article 5, you say that a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who has foreign citizenship, is considered a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, when located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You have, in this way, changed from some of the statuses to the rights that come from some status. I can ask you a question -- what happens when that citizen of ours with dual citizenship is in a third country? I hope you'll get rid of these disagreements over your rightfulness. I have to point out to you the problem that you haven't fully developed the system, which means the application, and what the request means. Especially with regard to Articles 9 and 9 following, what is the application, and what is the requirement to enrol in citizenship. In article 10, you have almost the last two lines that are excess, provided that you have not acquired citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. That's totally off Article 9 and the beginning of Article 10. That's what you had to fix, because it's confusing. The one applying the law won't know that he's interpreting this. There's a logical problem. I have to tell you that in Article 16. The bill probably didn't mean experience and practice, and whoever wrote this bill. I don't want to quote a provision, you can read it and see what it's about. I have to point out one practice that was in force in the former Yugoslavia and Serbia. A large number of quality people, artists, scientists, writers, who were foreigners at birth, were admitted to our citizenship from 1918 to 1941, and these are significant people. I'm referring to article 16 because several artists, Armenians, who want to be Serbs, could not exercise their right to citizenship... (Dear Jocic: Think of Article 19) No, Article 16. The problem is in Article 16, not in Article 19. I'm telling you very precisely. I do not quote the conditions that you have accepted, but I am telling you that even expelled from the Republic of Serbia are people who need Serbia, they need to be our citizens, our artists, our iconographers, who are inhabited here, who wanted to accept our citizenship. They were brought against them by misdemeanor procedures, delivered only because they could not provide any administrative document. Simply, the Department of Internal Affairs did not want to apply the existing law and to allow these people to gain citizenship. In Article 27, you have titled point 3 – acquisition of citizenship of another Member State. I know it's a painful administrative issue. I pointed out that at the session of the Legislative Committee. I think all about the same citizenship, you've regulated it in one of these members, but we have no guarantee that no situation will happen that someone has two republican citizenships and one citizenship of the state community. You have to sort of regulate it. This member is one-sided. I know you're referring to this 40th, but he's one-sided. You stated in Article 28 – the termination of citizenship by layoff, that it has reconciled the tax and other legal obligations in Serbia-Montenegro. You can only ask for Serbia. You can hardly ask for Montenegro. I think you need to agree on that solution. These are points 3 and 4 for you. If you're referring to the state community, you have no competences on other territory. There's talk here of a discharge from our citizenship. You don't have that information, you don't get it, you don't get it, you don't get it. It doesn't mean anything to you. As for Article 29, several amendments have been submitted. Not to convince you of this member, I must tell you... (Dear Jocic: We accept what we just did. ) This is not covered by our amendments, you will have to intervene somehow. The eighth amendment, past the amendment, concerns Article 20. I'm just going to give you one example. We have to take care of it. Some people can't let go of their citizenship. How the Chief of Staff can fire himself from citizenship when he retires. You've got to turn it up. Your basic idea is good, but you have to strengthen it. What would it be if Alexander Vasiljevic, he's already become a Canadian citizen, how to fire someone from citizenship, stopped his post as Chief of Staff, come on, go to Canada. I guess the state has a duty to protect some data, including citizenship. You heard it recently at a trial in The Hague, the general couldn't get a passport for five years from the end of his post. Take this seriously. In article 35, you say – to gain citizenship. His relationship is a member of 27. It says – by gaining citizenship in another country; you can see that there is no logic in the title of two members. Now that I'm running out of time, I have to tell you, the basic point is that after this law is passed, you won't know what the ministry is responsible for monitoring, and as far as bookkeeping is concerned, I don't think you've worked out the system, the books of citizens and the parent books of the born.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9610	I thank Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9611	We'll continue our afternoon work. According to official records, 125 MPs are present. In order to determine the quorum for work, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find there's a quorum to work with. The People's MP, Sovranija Čonjagic, has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9612	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, something has happened in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today that should never happen. Today, who knows which time was shot at the late prime minister of Serbia and many victims who died of terror. Victims from the Ibar highway, murdered journalists in Serbia, and this should not happen, and MPs in this high house should not in one such way talk about death on a flat-rate basis. They may have the right, in line with their political motives and their political culture, to collect political points in such a way, but I don't think they should do so in the Republika Srpska Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9613	Excuse me, Mr. Chonjagic, pick up some microphones, they can't hear you well and get on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9614	I would remind all of you, as many of you reminded themselves of Mr. Djindjic's words and competed who was closer to him, just one of his messages, where he sent something to his killers, but something very significant. So -- they can certainly kill him, but they can't stop reforms in Serbia and they can't stop the establishment of a system in Serbia. Of course, we from the G17 Group are deeply aware of the fact that Serbia's system is very necessary and that reforms in Serbia are very necessary, and we are ready to compete with any parliamentary group and any political party in which reforms will be carried out more quickly, more effectively and better. Today, there is a system law on the agenda, which is the law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. This is one of the key laws that determines the basic status of citizens. It is a condition for the acquisition of all other civil rights, which, under the Constitution and laws, belong to Serbian citizens. In the adoption of such an important law, the Proposer handled the following motives. The need for the adoption of a new citizenship law has initiated recent social and political changes, which is, above all, the redefine of the state union, i.e. the shut down of Yugoslavia and its federal social order and the formation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which entails new relations between the Member States, and thus the need for a new definition of the state of nationality of citizens. Also, the Constitutional Charter itself and the law on its implementation set the need for a new definition of this area. In addition to this basic, the motive that is certainly represented by the legislators of this law is also the need to adapt the legal situation in this area to the fact. It is also the need for such a law to adapt to the needs of developed European society, as well as the general objective of our national development towards membership towards the European Union. By handling all these motives, the proposer of some new solutions from earlier laws is now offering some new solutions. Namely, this law regulates the state membership of citizens in a different way, is now adapted to the political form of the social arrangement of the state community, so now the citizen of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Member State, and hence the bill bears the name of the law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, where the mandatory citizenship of the state union arises. This solution is much more realistic and has been adapted to the practical state of affairs and relations between Serbia-Montenegro, as earlier statehood came from federal citizenship and was determined towards residence. As a result of such a solution in this bill, the way and the acquisition of citizenship of the Republic of Serbia by nationals of another Member State must also be regulated in detail, so other conditions must be met in addition to the place of residence, thereby preventing abuse and change of status in citizenship within the state community, i.e. fictitious citizenship. However, this does not narrow the civil rights of nationals of another Member State, so that they have the same rights and responsibilities as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, except for the electoral right. The bill also adapts the status of citizenship to changes caused by previous developments on former SFRY soil, primarily by a large number of refugees, displaced persons and stateless persons, who sought refuge in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The earlier solutions made it very difficult to obtain citizenship for those persons, so they could not even exercise the basic constitutional rights arising from citizenship, let alone other rights. We had a case of refugees to foreign states, since they didn't have citizenship. This solution significantly facilitates conditions for obtaining the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia to persons with refugee status, as well as for members of their families. In addition to these special categories, the new law also facilitates the acquisition of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and other categories of persons, given in some cases ethnicity, while in the other length of stay on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is seen. Such solutions, above all, stem from the need to adapt the concept of development and enlargement of the European Union, new population migrations, which are primarily caused by European factors, as one overall opening of Serbia to the world. However, such a way of gaining citizenship is not unlimited because, given the other side of the medal, meaning potential dangers and growing terrorism, the bill provides for the possibility that the body responsible for the solution requires citizenship, which is, in this case, the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, is able to deny citizenship if it is estimated to be of general state interest. This solution is logical and given that as a state body by nature it has information on whether a person is jeopardising the interests of the state or not, especially in the case of security interest. This bill seeks to simplify the procedure for obtaining citizenship and to reduce red tape in the process, as anyone who has drawn out a certificate of citizenship knows that the process can be complicated. With everything in mind, I believe that the proposal for a new law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is a good solution, that it is modern and adapted both to the needs of our society, to its development, and to the needs of the modern world, so I believe that the law should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9615	- What's that supposed to Wrong line of interpretation, please don't. None of the MPs were mentioned. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard a lot now, but I don't want to look back. It doesn't matter who was talking or what he was saying. I went out because the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had to react because of the frightening words spoken. He didn't react. I don't suppose he heard the speaker. I don't think it's because of party membership. I have two things, because of the importance of the moment we are now in, to ask as questions the government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to suggest to you that we form one group or committee, however you will, composed of representatives of all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, to address the domestic and world public to protect the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, and to say that we are not insecure as our president, that we will not destroy this country's institution and that we want our country to exist in the future. Yeah, something in that sense, there are a lot of smart heads in all the MP groups here, let's do it, otherwise it's embarrassing one for all of us. No one can get out alive on the street, they think we're all a little bit silly if we support what was said the last two days. On the other hand, I ask for on behalf of all SRS MPs Minister Jocic, and yet because of the importance of the moment in which we are located, to receive either a oral or written report on large issues about the important assassination of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic. If all the newspapers have been announcing for two days that the assassination, or attempted assassination of the most important person in this country, is being asked of you, Mr. Jocic, the answer to the question of how a man with a beard and a mustache, middle body building, turned into a dog race Irish setter. Does being an Irish Setter have anything to do with the Irish Republican Army? Maybe it's some kind of terrorist connection. I want you to establish who was the liaison officer between the Irish Setter and the Irish Republican Army, to tell us publicly, Mr. Jocic. I want you to tell us, Mr. Jocic, how it's possible that nine of them can only agree on the first number of registrations, and about the second number they can't agree on, by revote, let alone the third, fourth, fifth and sixth to remember. Let me break this joke a little bit, 'cause they've had a lot of fun with the state the last two days. Since the last two days we've been listening to notorious nonsense, and I'm sorry that, even though you showed time what happened in Belgrade, you haven't told people until the end that they almost killed a man, threw him to the other side, that he barely survived because of the coincidence, thanks to the haughtiness of that security. And you should have said that because there are eyewitnesses, Mr. Jocic, the public should have been told to the end what happened there. I'm asking that we know who it came to, which is the key question, which occurred to whom, Mr. Jocic, to inform the media that the assassination was carried out. I want to hear who this liar is, who thought of it, and why? Who is it that wanted to worry everyone in Serbia, to drive foreign investors out of Serbia? Who was the one who wanted to do irreparable damage to the Republic of Serbia? I know you know it, and I know it, but I'm not gonna say it, but I'm waiting for you to say it. I want to hear who called the editor-in-chief "News", "Blica", "Bete" or some other media, who immediately went into the expansion of the news about how a serious assassination was committed, barely survived, so they made a moat, living and healthy laundry for themselves. They brought Micunovic and Djelic to cry over their own fate, they are very important, they are very important. The Hague brotherhood attacked them, attacked them, according to the unfortunate, criminal terrorist regime, Slobodan Milosevic. Mr. Jocic, do you know what it means to call the American Embassy, US embassy officers a criminal and a member of the crime and terrorist regime of Slobodan Milosevic? Do you understand the consequences, Mr. Jocic? I'm interested in something else, maybe it's this Irish setter, it's the key thing about the Irish Setter, whether that Irish Setter was specially dressed and where he was trained. Is that Irish setter specially trained to attack armored vehicles, bite the tires or bite the glass? To explain it to us, Mr. Jocic, to tell us what it is and to finally finish with that comedy, but to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia. (President: Time. I'm done. Comedies like this, those who think they can treat Serbian citizens any way they want, let's break it up once. I expect an answer from you. Enough of someone's lies, enough of someone's marketing agencies to do all sorts of things to the people here, to make Serbia's citizens more difficult, to barely patch up the end, and we'll just think about when any unfortunate person will think of making a TV star, Mariana, Ruby or anything like that. Who were you threatening? Have you examined what Serbian patriotic organization it is? Let me give you some information. I hear the letter was made up, I hear the ambassador invented the letter and wrote it himself. I'm asking you to examine it and say whether it's true or not, that he wrote it because he needs to be kept in that same place. (President: Please, six minutes are up.) ) Here we are discussing key issues for the country. We talked here yesterday about the assassination, and it turns out we need to talk about the haughtiness of one's drivers and bodyguards, who are about to kill a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9617	Mr. Wolf, this is the National Assembly. You asked me to work in the Rules of Procedure. You didn't define the member you contacted me for.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9618	Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9619	It is clear that I warned the previous speaker that he was talking about the subject, and I also made it clear that I had not heard him or the MPs what he had said before, so I could not warn him in any way, and I warn you that time had passed. Third time, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9620	I just want to tell you that it's enough for the people of his misery, that with a million problems, people in Serbia face each other every day, and that their stupidity is over their heads and listen to fake folk heroes, listen to their epics about heroism, and I don't know what. That's enough of that. One more thing, what they do on Dedinj at that time, when we have from the pre-election period a promise - I will not go to Dedinje, it will Tomislav Nikolic na Dedinje. There he is in Dedinj, and Tomislav Nikolic is nowhere near Dedinj.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9621	There's no basis for replication. According to the Rules of Procedure, the president of the Democratic Party's MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9622	Since the president of the DS is offended, I'm going out to replicate. In a country that had a terrible and political and social trauma a year and a half ago, because the Prime Minister was killed, in a country where an event that was very similar to the events that preceded the murder of Zoran Djindjic, who had a responsibility to Serbian citizens who had any personal morality, would not discuss as many MPs here today did. It's a matter of responsibility. Serbian citizens recognize those who take any opportunity to make fun of very important events in the most primitive way, toss out the most state institutions, and that does not surprise anyone. Whoever is not in writing, he could not interpret that none of the DS officials mentioned the assassination yesterday, but we all, from the president of the DS and the president of the Republic of Serbia and other DS officials, said that we expect the state authorities to take whatever is required under their jurisdiction and to inform citizens of Serbia and state authorities about what happened. Of course, today we all have our attention to follow up on what's going on and we're waiting for a police investigation and investigation report, and we expect the D.A. to get up on charges or not. Bruca and shame are the features of a part of Serbia's political scene. That's how it's been so far. That policy has ruined Serbia in the last decade. This policy has brought foreign troops to Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, the policy has brought a protectorate to BiH, the policy has halved the number of Serbs in Croatia. There's nothing smart about that policy and it can't be expected. I want to conclude, a lack of morality and a lack of responsibility for public life are the characteristics of people who abuse this pay phone, polluting public life in Serbia. Serbian citizens recognize it very clearly in every election, and therefore are permanent losers in Serbian politics. That's how it's done so far, so it's gonna be in the future. It remains for them to, poor and poor, support the governments of others, because in one way, which is by providing unprincipled support, they can maintain participation in public life.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9623	Replica, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Wolf, please, I won't allow any stories about Rex, or Yellow, or anything that makes this pay phone unserious. Please respond to what is mentioned, and I ask all MPs to respect dignity and return after that agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry, Mr. President, for not reacting to the most terrible insults shown from this pay phone. You've heard that in the absence of argument, the speaker started yelling, lost his head, lost his compass, and told the MPs that they were poor and poor. Mr. Petrovic, I'm telling you in your face that you're miserable and miserable and I won't tell anyone else that but I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9625	Mr. Wolfie, I'm warning you...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9626	Why are you warning me?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9627	For a very simple reason, Mr. Petrovic, and I thought I'd give you a later explanation, talked about those who supported the poor governments, so that doesn't apply to anyone in this room who's present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9628	If he's thinking about his coalition partners, well, I didn't understand him. So anyway, I'm not changing my attitude about it, and here's why. Is that what the one who asked this government to do just to win Tomislav Nikolic? Does that tell us the one who told us, I'm here to build, not crash, so I'm going to do everything with the government. Does that tell us the one who voted 30 laws in this assembly with this government? Does that tell us who today thinks he's taking and robbing Belgrade and Nishli, along with the party's representatives or with their silent consent? Does that tell us the one who doesn't know what to do with the misery and anger that Novi Sad is finally freed after an eight-year occupation?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9629	Mr. Wolf, I'm warning you of article 100, which prohibits the spread of panic. There was no war in Novi Sad. Please, there was no war and occupation in Novi Sad and be kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9630	It wasn't a war occupation, it was a thieving occupation, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9631	I'm warning you next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9632	It's a new term that DS produced, so-called Thief occupation. They've produced, Mr. President, many things in Serbia, a 70,000 dinar figure, a tray for 40,000 dinars, a spoon for 620 or 630 dinars, and I didn't order literacy like you from DS, so you're so easy to steal and steal, what else can I tell you. As for what happened yesterday and the day before yesterday, no, my aunt was reporting to the press that the assassination was carried out. Who told the media the assassination was made? You were the one who called. I'll also tell you the names of the people who did it, if Mr. Jocic didn't do it by the end of the week, I'll tell you who was reporting the assassination. You knew it was a fabrication, you knew there was no assassination, you lied to the people, and, responsibly, you lied to the people completely consciously, you made a false banishment, y'all didn't kill them, you lied to our people, and, frankly, you lied to the people, and you lied to them, and you lied to them, and you lied to them, and you lied to them, and you lied to them, and you lied to them, and you lied to them, and you lied to them. (President: Time. I knew you thought a lot of things about your political opponents, but your mentors, the U.S. Embassy, you think they're criminals and terrorists, and that's a surprise to me. I want to tell you something else, it's a surprise for all of Serbia. (President: Time. ) Yesterday and the day before yesterday, you assassinated the institution of the president of Serbia. You have assassinated one of the most important institutions in this country, because you don't care about the state, because you're only interested in marketing points, you're just interested in what Boris Tadic can get personally and nothing else. It's this country's problem, it's this people's problem. Instead of providing what he promised people, new jobs, whether that's how he did to Jocic, whether he promised more wages, whether he promised more pensions. Yes, it is. What about new jobs? It would have been if there had been a Special Irish Setter, a terrorist. A dangerous terrorist...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9633	Mr. Wolfie, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9634	I'm done, Mr. President. We, with complete peace, would look, but it's a shame for us as citizens of this country to have such a president, it's a shame for everyone to listen to him talk about the assassination, and they've committed an attack on a man just because they've been arrogantly and passionately acting. Mickavica, I congratulated you on the release of the New Now, you know, from the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9635	I promised, thank you, Mr. Wolfie...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9636	And let me tell you something, that wave, that call of freedom went through Serbia. Your lies can't stop her, neither can you. You won't be able to do anything about freedom or free-defined people. That's why we're going to beat you everywhere, both you and your lies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9637	First of all, Mr. Vukic, since I have warned you twice, you have broken your time and directly addressed the MPs in a wrong way, pointing your finger, I give you a warning. Mr. Petrovic, you want a replica, and this was a replica, this was a replica, and you spoke in the Rules of Procedure before that, this was a replica. (Dusan Petrovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. You can, please, honor the congregation. Mr. Petrovic, please, if you'll excuse the Rules of Procedure, otherwise I will use my right to take a break. Please, the Assembly must work with dignity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9638	Article 100. Rules of Procedure. No one takes you seriously, Mr. Wolfie, and what you've said here can only be well interpreted by a good psychoanalyst. As far as production is concerned, you have produced foreign troops in Kosovo and Metohija. [[Laughter]] You have produced, and personally, Mr. Vukic and your party, a protectorate in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You produced, Mr. Vukic, the halfing of Serbs in Croatia, with your politics, which you led in the 1990s. It is fortunate, of course, that neither you are leading now nor will you be able to lead politics in Serbia in the future. All you have left is to support someone here and there. Here, Mr. Mikavica thanked you very much. I assume you will continue this close co-operation in the future, as it will be short-lived, it cannot be so harmful to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9639	Please, Mr. Mikavica's replica, please, Mr. Vukic (Alexander Vukic requests a word). Here you go, Mr. Micavica, replica, if you've been looking for her, just let me know.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9640	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, it may be difficult to define exactly what the situation in Novi Sad looks like after November 29th. But I believe that everyone is well aware of what the situation in the New Sad looked like from the moment the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, along with the DS, took power and, practically, contrary to all morals, opposed to all human standards, let alone the needs of the Novosadians, has been operating here for four years. I hope, frankly, in the interest of Novi Sad, in the interest of all of us in Vojvodina, that we will come very quickly to the opportunity to finally free the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina from a government that does not deserve the trust of the citizens of Vojvodina. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9641	Replication to Mr Petrovic's presentation, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9642	To avoid any illusions, I congratulated Mr. Mikavica on his good speech. I'm sure they'll represent such ideas in the future. Like I said, the spirit of freedom cannot be stopped. But it's not a ghost of lies. Mr Petrovic says -- both myself and my party are responsible for something like the division of BiH, or something like that. When it happened, Mr. Petrovic, I wasn't even a member of the SRS, I wasn't involved in politics or politics. But you even had to make that up. Neither party has participated in anything like this, because when you were supposed to boast to the bulls of the Palace, you boasted of it, and when someone starts to haunt Radovan Karadzic, you say you've never even seen him. Unlike you, for us Serbian heroes were once heroes, always and always will be, and in that we are different from you. Unlike you, we have never supported the bombing of Serbia, we have never supported the arrival of foreign troops in Kosovo and Metohija, and we are the only political party against the Kumanovo Agreement and against Plan Ahtisaari - Chernomidin. I'm proud to point that out in any place. By the way, Mr. Petrovic, with enthusiasm at the moment, we're being watched by the Chapcans, the Sword is expecting the release of its largest city soon. Soon there will be elections at all levels. You won't have the president to embarrass us anymore, because it's not shame and shame, it's something much worse than that. And whoever invented the assassination story, this guy, Jocic, has to go to jail by law. Is that what the law says? He has to go to prison and now you're not in power in Belgrade together. Whoever invented it has to go to jail. Because he committed a crime of spreading false news, and with particular social danger -- that the people might be worried, that the people might think something happened to our president, that someone really attacked him. And they were driving in two strips, taken away, driven away in order; and they took it, and carried it away. The fact that a man went to another tape, people who knew what happened, they transferred him to the other side of the bank. The man survived by accident. He just happened to survive. If he wasn't an American embassy officer, they might have killed him. They put a gun or a machine gun in his hand and said, "Here, shoot us." This is the only way they've ever had a muzzle on an Irish box to put it and remember what it looks like. In the end, they saw a beard and a mustache, but to the second number they failed to count. And, you know, we did yesterday, you saw, very carefully come forward, take care of what we're going to say. We asked the M.O.P. for information. We asked to get what really happened, although a lot of things were illogical. (President: Time. We searched and waited. And then we realized that this is such a disgrace to this country, such a disgrace to this country, so what are you going to do about it, whose top state officials have accused the anti-Hastian brotherhood, criminal and terrorist regimes? And, one more thing, Mr. Jocic, there is another danger. Maybe there's a chip in the head of that Irish setter. Maybe it's a trained terrorist, but I'm asking you to question...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9643	I said I wouldn't tolerate the stories of Rex and Yellow, please finish your replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9644	Here, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9645	Finish Replication Please... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9646	I ask that you examine it, and you don't worry -- freedom is coming soon and there won't be any more Irish terrorist sets. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9647	Thank you. Please, of course, the pay phone... Dusan Petrovic is asking for a word. I totally understand... I completely understand, Mr. Petrovic, be kind. I've tried to be very patient to ask you all. Please, at the moment, except for part of Serbia, which is located under Security Council Resolution 1244, no part of the country is occupied. We have no reason to send such messages. We have no reason to call ourselves individually and there is no reason to talk about the institutions of Serbia in this way, and to talk about MPs in this way. And as part of the institution's defence, I'd like you to consult on Article 94, paragraph 2, and continue the session in five minutes. Please, thank you. [[After break – 16.45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to thank Mr Petrovic and Mr Vukic. After the consultations have been carried out, we continue the work. The first one will have the word Mr. Rankic, and before that, we only have to figure out the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their cards. The People's MP Branislav Rankic has the word, and let the MP Petar Cvetkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9649	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, as we heard from the minister, regulates a complex system of citizenship. Already in Article 4, we see the complexity of this system. It is said that a citizen of another Serbia-Montenegro member state in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has the same rights and obligations as its citizen. It is absolutely unnecessary to speak to others, enough to say a Montenegrin citizen in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has the exact same rights as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, except for the electoral right, or perhaps you know something that we do not know. You may think there will be some new members in the future, which we would really not like unless someone joined Serbia. In the 5th article you also formulate, or treat what happens to someone who is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who has dual citizenship, it is practically recognised as the citizenship of the Republic when it is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is not good, because someone has dual citizenship and if he is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and is located in a third country, he can be called upon to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, if in this way he can regulate some of his needs that he cannot regulate with citizenship that he has besides Serbian citizenship. For example, an example of visas and visa regimes. Immediately in Article 7, to skip Article 6, you have the acquisition of citizenship of origin. It is very interesting here that six ways are listed individually in which citizenship can be obtained, and then it says - that the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia comes from a child, so it is listed, whose parents are both at the time of birth of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so one parent is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and the other is not, so the child was born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia with one citizen or not born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so whether he is the other citizen of the country. The entire article 7 in six of these points can be said in one single sentence, very briefly, and that the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is originating regardless of the birthplace, if at the time of its birth one of its parents had the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. All this stuff that contains Article 7 fits into this one sentence. Even if you would extend that sentence with that, with the consent of another parent, then you would become completely unnecessary. Now you'll see why. In Article 8 in the 1st position, you regulate - citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is originally born abroad, one of the parents of which is at the time of his birth of a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and the other is a citizen of another country, if parents agree to do so. It is in the next position that no agreement is required at all, but one of the parents can enroll a child to be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of whether he has an agreed consent from another parent. Therefore, with Article 7 only this supplement that you have given, one sentence is enough for both members. It says that the concept of the law is not clear, that some citizenships can be regulated by some other law in just three members, and that you're not sure why you wanted to make one matter in the form of a law. You have in article 10 of the last sentence, absolutely unnecessary, that is, part of the sentence. Says - a person older than 18 years of life, born abroad, whose parent at the time of his birth was a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and the other foreign citizen, obtains the origin of citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, if, by the age of 23, he submits a request for entry into the register of citizens to the competent authority of the Republic of Serbia, and then - provided that he has not acquired the citizenship of the Republic in the manner provided for in Article 9(1). Article 9 provides for up to 18 years. Of course, those who have acquired citizenship will have no need at all to seek citizenship under Article 10. Whoever acquired it under Article 1, this is completely unnecessary. If I go from member to member, there are a lot of things that are illogical. You are telling article 19 that the Government can practically decide to give the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia i.e. obtaining citizenship by a reception, to receive someone into the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, where all is described, that they do not have to respect points 1) to (4) in Article 14. However, there is a lack of what is basic. Does the government want to give citizenship to citizenship accept that? What if the government meets and decides to give citizenship to the Maradona, and he says, "Thank you, gentlemen, I won't do it." You had to assume in article 19 that even the one you want to give citizenship accepts it, otherwise without it this member really doesn't make sense. There are some other significant remarks, I'll just remind you of Article 28 if you have a law, say, under point 6) you're treated with a leave of absence of citizenship. Point 6 says it has foreign citizenship or evidence that it will be admitted to foreign citizenship. The person seeking discharge should not be interested in whether he has foreign citizenship or evidence that he will receive foreign citizenship, because immediately in Article 32, in the first place, you say that he is not necessary, or that if he is not admitted to that citizenship he is seeking within a year, he will receive citizenship from which he asked for his release. For the sake of time, I'll finish the discussion. There is much missing in this law, although we do not dispute the need for such a law to be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9650	The word is by MP Petar Cvetkovic, and let MP Ljubomir Kragovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9651	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm only going to talk about the law. I will try to make your time as effective as possible, and on the proposal for a law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, I can say that one of those laws, and a vast majority of such laws is proposed by the Republic Government, which is modern, which leads Serbia into the future, into integration with the European Community. This is not a quasireform law, as all its laws and proposals were declared by the previous government, and so much for the previous government. She doesn't need to be discussed at all. This is a law that essentially addresses the issue of one fundamental human right of all citizens, which is the right to citizenship. The solutions given by this law are very liberal. I'd say it's not even possible to write a more liberal law on citizenship. On the other hand, this is a very brave law, and this ministry and the interior minister deserve all the praises and confessions. Very rare are the liberal solutions that the Serbian citizen put first, which in one modern way, more modern and liberal than the international convention itself create conditions, or regulate the issue of gaining and losing citizenship. That's where we come in for an exception, which is that some of those who will support this bill get some criticism because it's too liberal. Certain solutions may be accepted in that part. I am sure that the minister, or legislator, will accept any well-intentioned proposals that are in the spirit of this law on citizenship. I can therefore also commend all the well-intentioned discussions that took place today in this House. I limit myself exclusively to the discussion of the law, because for this speaker, other than petty objections to the law, all of its essence, or its modern thread. Some have even said system law, there are not many mistakes, because as I said, it regulates the basics of relations between citizens of Serbia and the state, which I hope, along with these proposals of laws that have been proposed and adopted at this assembly in the coming period, with new laws, with new modern European solutions, will bring Serbia closer and eventually introduce it into the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9652	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and let MP Zarko Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is the result of the collapse of the SRJ, the abolition of the SRJ, as well as the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the formation of the SCG state union. This law should have come to the agenda in this house before to regulate citizens' rights and to obtain citizenship status. Nationality is a status that allows an individual to enjoy civil rights and freedoms, while at the same time one element determining the validity of the sovereign state. This is one sentence given in an explanation and I would like to try to ask the competent ministry two questions. The first issue is the acquisition of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, as regulated by Article 6, where the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is acquired by birth on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, by reception and by international contracts. What interests me is point 2), birth on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, where it says that a child born or found in the territory of the Republic of Serbia achieves citizenship of the Republic of Serbia by birth. But we must bear in mind one fact that there is currently over 300,000 people living in the state of Serbia who are not citizens of this country. When I say this, I mean more than 300,000 Shiparas, who settled in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija from Albania and Macedonia, who usurped Serbian property, the Serbian country, Serbian houses, apartments and now enjoy what Serbs have created for centuries. They are displaced throughout Serbia and around the world. Now I ask the Ministry a question – will those children who are born in these marriages be granted citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and what about the status of those parents? It is likely that this state of the current occupation of Kosovo and Metohija will last. But we must take care of when the state of Serbia returns to Kosovo and Metohija, how to regulate the problem and how to regulate the status of citizenship of those citizens who have violently come to Kosovo and Metohija. Another question I would like to ask is non-definition in this law – why it is not clear that citizenship is also being issued for Serbs living in new countries now, for example. in Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Macedonia. In law itself, we have an instrument of multiple citizenship, of dual citizenship. Why not allow a Serb in Slovenia to gain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for those Serbs living abroad, and it originated with some of the territories of the former SFRJ member. What I would still point out through this discussion is that a member of the 47th determines – citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is proved by a copy of the birth certificate. This will create a problem, especially for us down in Kosovo and Metohija. In Article 52, the first point of view is, this sentence relating to a duration of at least 10 years, and I ask that this period be deleted from this bill. Otherwise, citizenship is a basic document, whether a citizen or an apatride, should be as little apatride in this country as possible, and that all those who wish to recognise the state accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9654	The word has the People's MP Zarko Obradovic, let the MP of the people prepare Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9655	Dear President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is today discussing the Proposal for a Law on Citizenship and, as you have already heard from your predecessors, the SPS parliamentary group will support this bill. We think it is good that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will adopt this law because it is a quality document, a comprehensive law, which has a systemic character, which will address some of the issues that exist now in the Republic of Serbia. It could be said that this law gives the Republic of Serbia a positive attitude towards the SCG state union, as it takes constitutional decisions regarding the state union. It can be said that this law shows one European legislative course, because this law is one alignment with international standards relating to the acquisition and termination of citizenship. It can also be said that this is a law that will resolve the issue of a huge number of people who have been expelled and expelled from the territory of the former SFRY and have found their refuge in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And it is good that this law will be passed to see if one category of persons living in the Republic of Serbia, who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, also has the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. I do not say this by chance, because citizenship as a status allows an individual to enjoy certain civil rights, provides him with state protection, but in addition to the right that citizenship implies and fulfils certain obligations of every citizen of our Republic. I think it is good that the legislator has set out in Article 14. The bill is very precise conditions for obtaining citizenship, because I think that the conditions of obtaining citizenship will help to address issues in an adequate manner in the previous three or four years. So here I think of the situation that was formed in the south of Serbia over the past three years in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, when they are poor, unquality, so I can say even by the malicious work of the Government that these areas have been brought into a situation that has artificially changed their ethnic structure and that we are practically in a situation, therefore, that this modified artificial structure has produced one new, if you want both social and political and overall situation in the south, which has proved to be a problem in the past few days, which will require serious resolution at the level of Serbia as a whole. I must mention this example, because it is forgotten that the previous DOS government has ensured the implementation of an agreement signed with the OSCE in a completely irregular manner several times. In fact, it first abolished the local self-government at that time, making four decisions on the introduction of forced administrations into these three municipalities. For those of you who don't know, this is what we discussed when we passed the Law on Local Elections. That's when I mentioned a few things, so I think, since today this law gives the ground to say something about it again and to point out that what we said was going to be the bad solutions that were adopted, that Serbia would get hit on the head, proved to be correct. I must mention that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the previous DOS government, made four decisions where it imposed a forced administration, I mean these three municipalities, and thus suspended legal local self-government. Then, by conducting certain technical actions, in a completely irregular way, it changed the ethnic structure, giving, above all, the possibility to enlist anyone who wants to, and members of the Albanian minority community used it abundantly, to the detriment of Serbs and Roma. I must say, at that time, we warned that a huge number of people signed up based on false documentation, that they were signing up faces that had permanently moved out, faces that had never lived there. We mentioned that three percent of the people who led up like dead were found in the polling lists. We found information and presented to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that about 1,200 underage children were registered as voters who had the right to vote, that a hundred couples who were never registered in the territory and three municipalities were enrolled, and even paradoxical situations, that 48 persons were registered in a living room of 45 square meters. I mention this because all of these were examples that showed how in one very easy way, but unfortunately then with the help of the authorities, it can change the ethnic structure. I have to say that the previous government, which I don't know about, has amnesty of terrorists operating in that area, probably to show some good intentions. However, these good intentions have become head - to - head. I must say, even then, they have amended the provisions of the law, this National Assembly has done so, and so the possibility has been abolished that someone can only be a candidate for a councilman if he has a residence in the territory of a certain municipality for six months. We then warned that the abolition of that provision would be misused and this proved to be correct. We now have one situation that, following the elections, in completely changed conditions, a minority community has taken over the local government and political demands are now being put in place. I mentioned at the very beginning of the discussion about this law that it would be good to see this law implemented by who our citizens are, because there is a lot of political ignorance in what the representatives of the Albanian minority community now point out. Namely, a few days ago, when marking November 28th, which is the state holiday of the Republic of Albania, it was said that Albanians do not participate in the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, a notorious lie, and that Albanians were not allowed to participate in the local self-government during the previous period, which is also not true. President So Presevo, and those with a little longer political memory will remember, said that Albanians have been fully normal in the authorities since 1992, and it is known that he has been a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia several times. So there were no obstacles to the participation of Albanians not only in public but also in political life. I'm saying this because it's knocking on the door, the way you use the letter, the language, the coat of arms, it's all detailed, so it's a document adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is an abuse of these opportunities, which existing legal regulations give to the minority community, including Albanians. In this case, it is understood that they are seeking the rights they already have and that reminds everyone of the previously seen scenario. In any case, it is good to finally, after implementing this law, come up with important information on who the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are. Because being a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to rights and state protection, implies and fulfils certain obligations, so everyone will be in a position to meet those obligations. In one word, the SPS sees it as a good law, with good solutions, with solutions that form part of international standards regarding the issue of citizenship. It is about one law that Serbia needs and that the positive effects of this law will be seen very soon after the start of some of its application, and with its application we will solve some other issues that are now being asked as political, which are essentially not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9656	The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic, and let the MP Vesna Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, previous citizenship laws depicted the spirit of past times, leaving behind a state that no longer exists. There are neither SFRY nor SRJ today, but citizens are where they are and they must be adapted to the law that defines them as citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also for those who wish to become citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this must be legally made possible. The specificity of our current situation, which includes the Serbian people as well as other citizens of Serbia, imposes a solution that should satisfy life, existence and the personal determination of every man. After the break-up of the SFRY outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, there remained a large number of Serb people in several states. Unfortunately, most Serbs are expelled from their hearths and are unable to return with refugee status, and there are about half a million. It is pointless for these individuals to condition their status for obtaining citizenship for years in Serbia in refugee status, which is shown in Article 52, where the deadline has been set in ten years. Also, when taking our citizenship, these individuals must be previously helped to secure legal protection of property in the former state, which may be threatened by a change in citizenship. Article 23 regulates the citizenship of persons born in the territory of the former SFRY. In addition to the refugees, we also have members of the Serb people who are left to live in Slovenia, the Federation of BiH, Croatia and Macedonia today. Those persons had no residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Can they exercise the right to dual citizenship? It is feasible and already seen when it comes to our citizens living in Western countries, and whether it will be possible for members of our people in these countries remains to be seen. Also, I want to remind myself of one fact, although painful and very difficult to achieve, which is Kosovo and Metohija. In the past five years, a large number of Albanian emigrants have been joined in Kosovo, and it is likely that forgeries have obtained the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, as Kosovo and Metohija are still legally viewed as part of Serbia. No matter when Serbia can act legally and administratively on Kosovo and Metohija territory, the state must find a mechanism to declare them void. It is clear to all that this creates an artificial demographic image in the eyes of the foreign public. Article 46 clarifies the situation of keeping records of citizens, no matter what the basis. I think that this is a bit of a specific situation and that people who have acquired citizenship under international contracts should be kept a different record. I think the data is necessary on the reasons for obtaining citizenship and on the status of the former state. Article 29 and Article 42 regulates the release from citizenship, saying that the person will not be fired from citizenship while the war is going on, the immediate threat or emergency, for reasons of security and defence of the country or for the economic and other interests of Serbia-Montenegro. What if court proceedings are under way against persons seeking discharge or court proceedings that have been completed, but there is a possibility of rescheduling the case? What is the status of the person who gets discharge from citizenship, and the heir is property that can't be owned by foreign citizens? Maybe the person has knowledge that can be treated as a state secret or something. How is it done then? Finally, one thing that is very important, which is in the sphere of social policy of the competent Ministry of Social Affairs, and it is about the adoption of this law. Namely, by obtaining citizenship, which is necessary and realistic, there will be an automatic abolition of all social benefits belonging to the refugees. It is known that most refugees receive help from the state, such as food, accommodation, electricity use, school textbooks, health care and others. If this law is passed, the government must react immediately by overcoming a certain period of social giving to those persons, since it is not simply suddenly lost social donations, and they have usually avoided persons without a job and with no means to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9658	The People's Messenger Vesna Obradovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, Vesna Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9659	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the subject of the assembly procedure is the Proposal for a Law on Citizenship, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will be voted by the party G17 plus. The status of citizenship is one of the basic human and civil rights that shows the sovereignty of the state. The main reason for the adoption of this law is seen in the fact that parallel laws are in force in this area and that countries in which they have been brought are discontinued. So far, the application of parallel laws has created a complicated node and absurd situation, that people born in the same place were citizens of different legal entities. The adoption of this law will pave the way for the forest of rules that have so far been valid and made easier to apply, with the aim of recognising the existing political reality set out in the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, in which the adoption of this law is prescribed. Written under the old Law on the Citizenship of the Socialist Republic of Serbia of 1983 and the Law on Citizenship of the SRJ of 1996, the new law is more modern, more functional, simpler, retaining their essential properties. The new law offers solutions for the acquisition of citizenship that are founded in most developed countries, and the G17 party also advocates that this law sends a real message to our peoples, citizens in dispersion, that we are realistically thinking about them, because the new law on citizenship leaves the principle - one state one citizenship, which is of particular importance when it comes to people of our origin in the world. The most important news is that it stopped the absoluteism of the residence criteria, which left many citizens of Serbian origin without the possibility of being a formal part of their Serbian homeland. All those who have moved out of Serbia with the intention of living abroad, their descendants or spouses, under this new law on citizenship have the opportunity to become Serbian citizens, if they are 18 years old, if they are not deprived of their business ability and if they submit and sign a declaration that the Republic of Serbia considers their country. The reason the party G17 plus advocates the adoption of this law lies in the near past of our country, in the tragic wars and crises that raged in the last decade, when many people remained denied this status, thanks to the complicated regulations that were in force at the time. This law will reduce these mistakes because it contains an acceptable solution for displaced persons who, under the circumstances mentioned, remain apatrides. Nationality of Serbia can also be born in another republic of the former SFRY, who had citizenship and the Republic and who, as a fugitive, were exiled or displaced today, either abroad or in the area of Serbia. A new law on citizenship provides for three instead of five years of residence in Serbia so far to obtain Serbian citizenship, and not at all the cost of losing a foreign one. And this is rounding up that part of the new regulations that gives citizenship the reception. In addition, it is envisaged that the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia will be granted to foreigners for whom the Serbian government proposes it is in the interest of our country. We are witnessing these days that Mr. John Timothy Bajford received citizenship after 30 and more years of staying in Serbia, and here he contributed greatly to his "Neven" shows, celebrating the creation of Uncle Jove Dragon. This law further facilitates the procedure for obtaining citizenship, clearly indicates the conditions under which citizenship is obtained, is very understandable and concise, which is rare in today's world of complex legal regulations. That's his greatest virtue. A significant newspaper provided for by this law is also keeping records of citizenship. As more records are now being kept on citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the birth books, in the special books of Yugoslav citizens, in the books of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and with different authorities, the new law stipulates that the records are kept only in the birth books, and supervision of the keeping of this record would be carried out by the ministry responsible for internal affairs. By passing this law, we will lay another stone on the basis of the sovereignty and legal order of our country, respecting the reality of the Republic of Serbia, which G17 plus stands for.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9660	The People's Messenger Verica Radet has the word, and let the MP Branislav Nedimovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9661	Ladies and gentlemen, we lawyers know that the right to citizenship is one of the personal rights of citizens and of course it is not disputed that this matter should be regulated by law, but it seems to me that a little too many of you colleagues who will vote for this law praise the text that the government has proposed. We from the Serbian Radical Party think there are a lot of things here that should be corrected and in that sense we have submitted amendments. We expect Mr. Jocic to accept in particular at least some of the key amendments that will certainly correct the law, which may convince us that we are voting for this law. Also, I think it is not true that all MPs from the congregation's majority are trying some pathetic stories to explain to the citizens of Serbia, as the citizens of Serbia see us, that this law will make a significant contribution to obtaining citizenship from our countrymen who have been brought by the war storm to Serbia. I'm telling you that's not the case, and above all, because so far there is a legal possibility of establishing citizenship for those persons. The fact is that so far, authorities have treated the problem according to their assessment, which these people would vote for if they got citizenship. Since it was largely clear that all these people, as they do, would vote for the SRS, there was always a way of prolonging the adoption of a solution to the requirements for issuing citizenship and enrollment in the citizens' book. This current government is no better than this problem. Now the demands are filed, waiting about as long as this government is in office. I usually know that from ropes and wider families and circles of friends, neighbors, etc. I'm completely argumentative about these things. And that I am right and that is true, says this proposed Article 52, which predicted that the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia would also be obtained by a citizen of the Republic of Serbia within the meaning of this law, a person who has been registered for 10 years in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, Mr Nikolic said this morning, several hundred thousand Serbs were completely neglected who came to Serbia in that tragic "Storm". I know, Minister Jocic, that you said you'd accept, because we've tabled an amendment, and I think it's unacceptable that this is even proposed in this way, and that the promoter did not take care of such a large number of citizens, compatriots from Western Serbian countries. There's this law that's quite technical, which some legal mistakes need to be corrected, and now I'm going to briefly, even though we've made about a dozen amendments, to look at some of the most characteristic failures. Since you treated Montenegro as another Member State, which is a little bit different, and I think our amendments are relevant, it should be clearly written that it is the Republic of Montenegro. Or, in Article 9, where it is mentioned about the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, citizenship comes from a child born abroad, one of the parents at the time of his birth of a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, etc. Then you say, if the child is under custody, the application and request can be filed by the guardian. This is totally unfair, because he can't stand the old man, he can't stand the old man. He can't stand the old man. You know well, Minister, that parents and elders are even in obligations and rights towards the child and I hear the minister will accept, and that's perfectly fine. In Article 11, you say that a request from Article 2 of this article can be submitted by an adoptor. Do not put up with this, but accept our amendments – to bear. So he's either intolerant or intolerant. I think these are all amendments that need to be adopted to make this law legal. One more thing that is very interesting in article 18 and several other members, and you are talking about conditions for obtaining citizenship, and it says – persons, if they are not deprived of their business ability. It's not right to write it like this in a negative context, but I guess people who have a business ability. I think, Minister, that it's an amendment that you can really adopt, and besides, all our amendments are designed so that they don't touch the essence of this law, but they do, and if you accept these amendments, the law will remain the way you imagined it, but it will make sense. I'll finish, and I'll speak in detail, only with article 54. It's amazing to me that it takes, Minister, 60 days, or 60 days for your ministry to just prescribe forms for the application of this law. I think it's too long, short it, and when the law is passed let its application begin as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9662	The word is made by MP Branislav Nedimovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9663	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, we have before us a proposal for a law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. This is an extremely important law for the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the DSS MPs will say positively about it in the voting day. What are the reasons why DSS MPs will vote for this law? First of all, two citizenship laws currently exist in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. One is the Law on Yugoslav Citizenship, which was passed about ten years ago, in 1994, with its amendments, or newspapers since 2001, and has also been in place by the law on the citizenship of the SFRY, which was passed in 1979 and suffered changes in 1983. There is no doubt that it is the texts of the law that bit the tooth of time, and it is necessary to pass a new law that will fix the issue of citizenship in a new way. There is another fact that indicates that one such law on citizenship should be passed. Legally, citizenship is one of the basic human rights. Legally, citizenship is regulated in the UN Declaration on Human Rights, where each person is intended to have the right to citizenship, that no one can be deprived of citizenship and that every person has the right to change his nationality. Addressing the issue of citizenship also solves the problem of one country's personal sovereignty. It is very important that the state knows which citizens its legal system applies to. A large number of social changes have occurred in the past ten years, so there are no countries where these texts of the law have arisen: the Law on Yugoslav Citizenship and the Law on the Citizenship of the SFRY. These countries do not exist, there is no SFRY and there is no SRJ. Over time, a number of independent states in the area of the former SFRY have emerged, which have passed their citizenship laws. A large number of people during the 1990s were exiled from their hearths and they found refuge in the Republic of Serbia. To this day they have largely failed to exercise their right to citizenship. These are all the reasons behind the fact that a new law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia should be passed. Perhaps the most important fact that speaks in favour of the adoption of this law is that last year the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro was adopted by a common state. In Article 7. The Constitutional Charter is said to be a national of a Member State at the same time as a national of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. This is about a complex system of citizenship, where primate has the nationality of a Member State. Several goals were sought by this proposal for a law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, to avoid the possibility of creating apartrides, i.e. persons without citizenship, to simplify the process of gaining and ending citizenship, through the fact that some of the formalities that existed in earlier drafts of the law are avoided, in order to make it easier for individuals to gain our citizenship to stop their citizenship of the Republic of Serbia as easily as possible. Apatrids or stateless persons, i.e. the problem, has been regulated by numerous international documents that exist in the international legal system, particularly the Convention on the Legal Position of a stateless person, which was adopted in 1954, and the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Persons Without Citizenship. In this way, with this text of the Bill on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, it is in a liberal way that enables individuals to gain the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia or to stop their citizenship. The bill's proposal envisioned four ways to gain the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Among other things, they are the acquisition of citizenship, by birth in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, by reception and by means of an international contract. So, there are two basic ways to gain citizenship, which is to gain citizenship, based on blood, and to gain citizenship by birth on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In my presentation, I would stay a little bit longer in a complementary way of gaining citizenship, and that is to gain citizenship through a reception. Here comes the acquisition of citizenship by a solution of the competent authority. It is particularly interesting for a member of the 23rd bill, which says: "A member of a Serb or another nation or an ethnic community in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who does not have a residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, can be admitted to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia if he has turned 18 and has not been deprived of his business ability and if he submits a written statement that he considers the Republic of Serbia as his country. "The position of the 2nd member states: "Under the conditions laid down in Article 1, citizenship of the Republic of Serbia may be admitted and a person born in the second republic of the former SFRY who had the nationality of the Republic or a national of another country formed in the territory of the former SFRY, who, as a fugitive, exiled or displaced person, resides in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or has fled abroad." Why am I quoting this member of the Bill of Citizenship? I come from the territory of Srema, more specifically from the town of Sremska Mitrovica. During 1990, a large number of people were exiled and displaced or fled to the territory of the municipality of Sremska Mitrovica from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. So, there was in the former Yugoslav Citizenship Act an institute of acceptance of Yugoslav citizenship, which somewhat regulated their status. However, this was a transitional solution, which was incorporated into the Law on Yugoslav Citizenship. This Article 23 allows refugees, displaced and exiled persons, who still have a large number, i.e. those who have not yet exercised their right to citizenship, to exercise their right. It is only necessary to meet some of the conditions provided for in Article 23 of this bill, which is that the person turned 18, did not deprive himself of his business ability and sign a statement accepting the state of Serbia as his country. At the same time, it needs to submit a request and the internal affairs authority will make a solution to the acceptance of such a person into the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, we will solve a large number of problems that exist on a large part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, where there are a large number of people without citizenship. These persons cannot equally exist in the premises of our Republic along with other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They've been deprived of some rights they'd enjoy if they were citizens. First of all, the Law on Working Relations in State Authorities provides - that one person could establish a working relationship in a state body, must be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. They currently cannot exercise the right to work through this way, so they cannot in any way establish a working relationship in the state body. This way we would allow these people to participate actively in social life. In the end, I would like to emphasise one more thing that is extremely important in this bill. It's a question of citizenship records. Citizenship will be kept – if this law is passed, and I hope that, apart from the DSS MPs and all parliamentary groups in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, they will vote in favour of this bill because it is a good bill – only in the parent books of the born. This used the possibility given by the Law on Parent Books, where citizenship could be recorded in the birth certificate. In this way, we would remove from the use of the large number of registers currently in existence and where citizens are recorded. There would be only one register based on which we could record who our citizens are, and also in one place we could see exactly who is the citizen of our Republic of Serbia. I call once again on you to vote in favour of this draft law on citizenship because it reflects the provisions of the Convention on Citizenship, which was adopted in 1997 by the Council of Europe, although our country has not ratified it, but it is extremely important to include the solutions provided for in this Convention in our text of the law, so that we may later participate in European integration in an equal way. I urge you once again to vote in favour of this proposal of the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9664	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the laws that Serbia needs and, in any case, if the amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS are adopted, this will be a law that will be applicable, unlike many of the laws that have been passed in this assembly in the last month, and then become only an icaban for the cabinets of ministers. This law will benefit the state. I will make the most of the time left for my MP group. Article 19 says - regardless of the conditions laid down in Article 14(1) to (4) of this law, a foreigner whose admission to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia would be of interest to the Republic of Serbia may also be admitted to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Article 14(1) to (4) says that he has turned 18, that he has been laid off from foreign citizenship, that he has spent at least three years continuously in Serbia and that he has made a written statement that he considers the Republic of Serbia as his country. So, this article in 19th, we will give citizenship to a foreigner who is without a residence in the Republic of Serbia, who has completed or has not completed it, it is irrelevant, for 18 years, who has not fired his country and his country's citizenship, and has not spent three years until the application is made, i.e. He did not live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Many abuses are possible here. It's even possible to bring the state into a caricature. You remember maybe two years ago that an Austrian skier named Andrei Goldberger, caught him in the drug crisis, caught him doping, he got mad at his country of Austria, came to Serbia, filed a request, gave him citizenship, gave him a passport. After three months, he became angry with his country and returned and the state of Serbia turned out to be ridiculous. I think this member again provides the possibility of someone not having a home or deliberately embarrassing the state of Serbia. Paragraph 2 of this article says: "A spouse of persons who are subject to the conditions laid down in Article 1 of this article may be admitted to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and unless the conditions laid down in Article 14 are met." This means that we will also take his spouse into citizenship, and if he may be interested in becoming a citizen, it does not necessarily have to be of interest to both his wife or her husband to become Serbian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, you remember in time, seven eight years ago, Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is only that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Bosnian-Croatian Federation had a terrible inflow of Arabs, and then it turned out to be al-Qaeda germs, which were sown in the Bosnian Canton of the Bosnian-Croatian Federation. Since people who are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia, nor the Serbia-Montenegro community appear in the Raška area, given the Wahhabi community, mostly after two and three months, are declared Wahhabi and act as Wahhabi, I think a lot of caution should be given to the application of this article and I believe that this Article 19, and I think one of our amendments requires it, should be deleted. In Article 28, the termination of citizenship by layoff, he says - the citizen of the Republic of Serbia ceases his citizenship by firing if he submits a request, etc. and point 2) says - if there is no interference with military obligations. If someone is asking to be fired from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, I don't see any reason to force them to serve the army first, so we can give him leave afterwards. I don't think there's room for this point 2) in Article 28 and there's no need to stand. If someone stops being a Serbian citizen, it means they stop being interested in this country, in this country. That means he won't even defend her the next day, because he's already found citizenship on the other side. In Article 32 - if a person who has been fired from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia does not acquire foreign citizenship within a year of the date of delivery of the discharge decision, the authority that has reached the solution may annul it at the written request of that person. Then we bring the Institute of Citizenship down to something that is more or less optional. If someone asks for a release from citizenship and gets a discharge from citizenship, then we can't play with it anymore, and he's pissed again, he won't come back and become a normal citizen of this country. The title above article 33, the termination of citizenship by disowning; it should be stated that if someone gives up citizenship has no right ever to market citizenship of the Republic of Serbia again. His descendants can, but if he gave up his citizenship, I don't think he should ever be able to become a citizen again. A member of the 34th is pointless because a person who has been fired from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and has acquired foreign citizenship and a person who, at the request of his parents, has stopped the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia by firing or giving up, can regain the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia if he again submits a request to regain citizenship. This means that they will pay a tax of 100, 200 dinars and play with one of the most important institutes of the Serbian state, with citizenship, especially if someone is seeking, giving up Serbian citizenship, there is no need ever to give him the opportunity, because this is how the citizenship institute and the state of Serbia is devalued as a community.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9666	The word has the People's MP Ispanović Istvan, and let the MP Boris Karaic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9667	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are having a debate on the law on citizenship, a very important law, a system law as already said here, and a law that is very important for all citizens of Serbia. How important this is, how important the law speaks, and this was mentioned in the morning part of the debate by Mr Dacic, that in one neighbouring country, not in December, but in three days, a referendum on one part of the law, namely one solution that is similar to the solution covered by Article 33 of this Law. A referendum is being held, whether to give citizenship to those members of the Hungarian people who live outside the border and have no intention of moving to their home country, but to get citizenship if they ask for citizenship without having an obligation to live in that country of origin. So if, in that referendum, of about 8 million voters, one quarter of Hungary's two million voters are declared to be one such solution, then the Hungarian state will be required to pass a law allowing certain citizens outside the border to acquire Hungarian citizenship without moving to Hungary. I am telling you this because it is important, because some of our citizens who have the natural citizenship of Serbia, or the citizenship of the state union, will gain another citizenship. I think it's a good thing that the country's earlier attitude is completely changed that everyone can only have one citizenship. Political opportunities, border change, etc., the creation of new states causes such an attitude to be no longer possible and one process started in 2001, when the law on Yugoslav citizenship was changed, is now being developed, or even more thoroughly, by allowing for citizenship not only in a classical way like before, but by allowing double citizenship. I hope the situation has changed, and I'd like to hear it from Mr. Secretary. Recently, four or five years ago, it wasn't just the cops who hit your passport, but also the D.B. workers, who followed someone who didn't pass by who had double citizenship. That's how it happened very often up there on the border where I live that people were brought to these DB workers, because let's just say the police officer at the border saw that someone had been listed in the passport as being born in Subotica. There was immediate doubt, and traveling by Hungarian passport, there was a suspicion that he had dual citizenship, and since it was not possible before 2001, then these people were detained, harassed, taken away from them by passport, etc. From this debate that is under way today, it is clear that it is a very modern and good law, and I see no particular reason why not all MPs in this assembly vote for this law. True, the SRS has highlighted certain reserves on some of the most important members, but I don't think there's any particular reason why they can't accept these solutions and not vote in favour of the law. G17 plus will support this law and I urge you to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9668	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Boris Karaičić, and may the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica be prepared, if there is time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9669	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, at the end of your working hours, I would like to ask your attention for a few minutes. A good law on citizenship is a reflection of a good country. I wouldn't be so interested in numbers about how good a member is, because I think the law is generally good and it's a new approach to this question. But I will warn you that many countries, especially after the fall of communism, have a different approach to this issue. In fact, citizenship has become a reflection of the state's strength. A good law on citizenship hides the desire for the state to be stronger, more powerful, more powerful, and to increase the population. The population, or people who make up one community, is no longer defined as before, not as a nation belonging to one community of origin, but as people who have certain, above all certain economic, consent and interests. The whole world's heading towards origin, ethnic approach isn't so important anymore. It happens, especially in sports in recent years, that people born in Kenya, Africa, win medals and gold medals for one Denmark, Norway, Finland, Germany. It happens that people born in India become citizens of the United States because there is an economic interest, and these countries allow these people to use their knowledge in the service of these countries. It is a tendency we cannot accept, because we belong to those countries that are yet to develop economically, but we can do what this law does, that people who are here, have their problems either as apatrides or as people who want to have two citizenships because they are a father or mother of another ethnicity, to allow them to live their lives more easily. This article in 51 really needs to be respected in a way that people who have experienced stressful situations can gain citizenship in a easier way and affect economic and social opportunities in this country as well. It has already been said here that there have been a lot of abuses of these things in the past, so some of the furniture in the government felt that some people shouldn't have citizenship because they would vote for the other side. I don't think that's relevant to this thing. I don't think we have a single person after this law who represents the problem of citizenship anymore. People have a problem that they can't get travel documents, they can't travel abroad, they can't go to school and they can't use the rights that belong to them. So citizenship really is the right of an individual in today's modern world, but it is also an obligation. Today we have a situation so that our citizens of Albanian ethnicity do not see this country as their own. This issue has not been resolved in the past and therefore I appeal to establish a criterion that is not easy to establish, but if the state is serious it can tend to, that those people who do not see this country as their own, respect the tradition of this country, its symbols, what makes it a state, that they cannot use those rights that belong to them if it does not mean that they fulfil their obligations. Some of these things are easily solved, tax payments, military service, etc. Those people who don't want to do this can't use the rights that belong to all the citizens of this country. In the end, I would like to invite you to support this law and look forward to the fact that, after this law is applied, the number of people who have this problem will be much smaller than before.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-02-0.u9670	Thank you. Mr. Koprivica, there's not enough time for you. As I have indicated today, according to Article 81(4) of the Rules of Procedure, because of the size and importance of the agenda of the session, I am determining tomorrow as a working day and Monday as a working day. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
