ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10986	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 123 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that MP Milka Silajev will be absent and Radic Jokovic and Dejan Rajcic will be late. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the election of the MEPS OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE (the follow-up in particular) I remind you that yesterday's work was interrupted during the review on the amendment to article 17, which was submitted by the MP Vjerica Radet and that as the next speaker was announced by MP Zoran Ćirković. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Ćirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10987	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected the presence of the Minister of State Administration, and I wanted to ask him a question, convinced that this article 17, challenged by Mrs. Radeta, was to a good extent hollow. It's simple, he's inapplicable. The question is: if we apply a form that determines the number of mandates, the number of votes received by the voter list is multiplied by 91, all of which is divided by the number of valid ballots and the result being 0.9, does the national minority party have a mandate? By creatively interpreting this law, we could conclude that there is, for the simple reason that in the whole section, it has not won a mandate, but in the decimal part, it is quite certain that it will be at the top of the list, and that is what is not good. Therefore, if the legislator wanted to favour the parties of national minorities and to respect their right to positive discrimination, he had to determine how mandates are obtained. For this reason, it was desirable to define the electoral threshold and to establish that national minority parties had won the term of office if they had crossed the electoral threshold. This is how he'll win his term if he doesn't get over it, and in that part, I agree with Mrs. Radet, because we better define and determine the matter. However, there is another problem. This assembly immediately after its constitution very urgently intervened in the existing Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and this is the right of national minorities, to have the right to mandates and if they do not cross the electoral censorship, verified. It would be unserious now if in this law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly it were suspended. I'll bet that's the right to remain, but in law and in this article, there's no such thing as a cavity that clearly exists. I don't think this member is enough and you'll see that there will be problems in practice. If national minorities, or their parties, could win mandates if they do not cross the electoral threshold, then it is a matter other than that, then it is an inequality. All other parties win seats if they cross five percent. In our relationship strength is five percent guaranteed six to seven terms. If someone wins five percent minus one in the third decimal, they haven't crossed the election censorship. When it comes to other parties, they can, by simple application of Article 18 and by applying the formula, have the right to mandate, although they have not won them objectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10988	Thank you, Mr. Cirkovic. According to the same amendment, MP Ispanović Istvan, then MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10989	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the working hours yesterday we listened to Mr Krasic's explanation that it is not necessary to apply the natural threshold to the parties of national minorities, but that national minorities should be represented through other parties and parties that are still present in the Serbian Parliament. I would like to remind him that, regardless of what was already in force of the Charter of the Rights of National Minorities and that provision was considered to have the right of national minority parties to be proportionate, yet in this assembly I think it is known that there is no proportionate representation of national minorities in this high house. As far as I know, there are seven or eight representatives of national minorities, and that's much less than should be in proportion to representation. Also, I know there are more ways to ensure such representation. One of the legal techniques is that it is a natural threshold, but there are other ways, and I would suggest that Mr. Minister who is already present try with legitimate representatives of national minorities, and these are now national councils, to find an appropriate legal technique to ensure the application of the proportionate representation of national minorities. I think there are better techniques than the law now. It is now the same principle for the election of MPs, and if the law is passed today, then the same principle will also be for the application of MPs to the Assembly of the State Community, and the same principle applies to the election of MPs in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. However, I would recommend discussing this specifically with representatives of national minorities and finding a better mechanism that would not prefer strong national minorities' parties. I believe the same principle should be applied, but not the present one that is not perfect, but one better in agreement with representatives of national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10990	On the occasion of the same amendment, the word has a folk MP, Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10991	I would like first to welcome this law on my behalf and on behalf of the Parliament group. We will vote for this law. I would like to say that, given the position of my parliamentary group and the party I belong to, we are in favour of the survival of the state of Serbia-Montenegro and we do not think there are any reasons to go further into this country's division. As for the requirements of Montenegro to postpone the application of certain provisions of the Constitutional Charter, I don't think that in Serbia we should give reasons to the third party that was the signator of the Belgrade Agreement to bring down some kind of criticism on us again or to accuse us right now, when we want to meet all the conditions to get close to the European Union, to bring down on us the criticism of the European Union that we are not carrying out what is in the Belgrade Agreement and in the Constitutional Charter. The Constitutional Charter made it clear that elections for Serbia-Montenegro's parliament should be held in February and that is why we need to pass this law as soon as possible, to hold those elections, and those who do not want those elections to explain to the European Union and everyone else in the world who is interested in respecting the Constitution of our country why the people in Montenegro, the Government, in particular, does not want to apply the Constitutional Charter. The legal system is not a Swedish table, and you cannot take something from the Constitutional Charter that suits you, and that what obliges you, that you do not take it and say it - we can agree not to apply a provision. We can agree to bring a new constitutional charter, to amend the provisions of the Constitutional Charter, but we cannot agree in a legally regulated community that we do not respect the special provisions of the Constitutional Charter. Therefore, all that stands in the Constitutional Charter is considered not to be the happiest, but it must be applied. And then I took part in the work of the Constitutional Charter Commission, pointing to the lack of such an act, because, as you know, there is no international legal entity today in a world that has customs duties at half of its country, which has a border crossing to half its country. We've got it on Mecca's junk today, we've got it in Brodarev. Today, in the European Union, which is not an international legal entity in terms of other international and legal entities, it is an international organisation, there are no such types of customs restrictions, but on the territory of an international legal entity such as Serbia-Montenegro, there is something that does not exist anywhere in the world. We should work to create conditions to apply everything from the Constitutional Charter, regardless of the fact that there is no real desire with the Government of Montenegro to respect all that is drawn there, to obtain conditions for their interpretation that such a community cannot survive, that it is not possible and similar. We've heard Mr. Solana's interpretation these days. Mrs. Kristina Galjak told us that the signatories of the Belgrade Agreement believe that everything in the Constitutional Charter should be respected and that those who do not want to respect what is in the Constitutional Charter should bear sanctions. From that point of view, I do not think that this parliament should be mindful of those who say that it is not time to apply certain provisions, because we must not take the position that we can negotiate. Let them be even the most state-owned delegations, not even the most state-owned delegations can agree that some constitutional norm is not applicable. They can agree to meet some new commission to draft the Constitutional Charter, to meet the parliament of Serbia-Montenegro, to change that norm, but cannot agree not to apply some norm. In that sense, I would like to comment on one more thing, that I am glad that the promoter has done that for minorities, or the minority party, there is no censorship, i.e. to make it easier for the parties of the national minorities to cross the threshold and thus to enter parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10992	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10993	The fact is that that stance in the Constitutional Charter, which says minorities should be presented in the Serbia-Montenegro parliament, will be respected if such a solution is adopted. I must say that this solution does not guarantee, but it makes it easier for minority parties who have votes below 5%, or finally, when the ratio is calculated, as much as it costs to vote for one MP, to get the minority party's mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10994	Please, you've overstepped a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10995	Especially because we have 38 minorities on the minority list in our country, and we know that by the number of residents and the number of voters simply does not theoretically, that all members of a minority vote cannot achieve the censorship, except for Hungarians, Bosniaks and two other minorities. About, on the last list, we could theoretically, if they were totally united and everybody was voting, then we could. We have many solutions from an environment where there are quotas and there are ways...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10996	Please, you've been over time for almost two minutes. You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10997	I'm sorry. Yesterday I was scheduled to speak in a discussion in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10998	Okay, I understand, but bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u10999	I would like to refer to the Government if it is possible to intervene in such a way as to ensure that minorities are better protected, i.e. in a better way available to them in parliament, such as this. in the Republic of Croatia and several other countries where quotas are set. When minority parties are registered for these elections and are on that list, that a party that receives the largest number of votes from minority parties should receive MPs, as it is theoretically possible that of the 10 parties, for example. Hungarian minorities we have a quota where Hungarians voted precisely for the Hungarian parties, but they do not cross the census and this provision of the Constitutional Charter that minorities are represented will not be met. Of course, I do not plead at all, and I do not think that there will be authentic representatives of minorities who are on the list of either DSS or DSS or any other party in this parliament, but I am just saying, if the legislator wanted this to be arranged in a closer way to reflect on this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11000	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that this amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11001	With this amendment, we ask that Article 18 be changed. The bill also sets up a solution in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to the allocation of mandates belonging to a particular electoral list, depending on the number of votes the vote list won. We ask that the principle of Dont be applied consistently, because it is the liquid of some round table from 1992 and probably without some new round table of government and opposition and consensus reached on the round table cannot just change the electoral legislation. That's the main reason we've submitted this amendment, let's say. We want to preserve something that is a democratic standard and about which there is even agreement. The second reason is that we do not consider there to be any difference, both in this part and with regard to the status of MPs in this assembly and those MPs who are to be elected for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. I'm also taking the opportunity on this amendment to remove some misunderstandings. The Constitutional Charter, though some like to say it is the Constitution of the state union, and it is not, and it is said to be some constitutional act of the state community, which it is, was brought in one atypical way, and was brought here simply by the majority of the votes of the MPs. It was similar in the Montenegrin Assembly and was declared to be one with about the same majority and in the Federal Assembly. From this Constitutional Charter, it is our obligation to bring our Constitution into line with the Constitutional Charter. I must say that the highest legal act in the Republic of Serbia is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. All laws that are passed, and those concerning human rights, can only include a way of achieving individual freedom or human rights, must be in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's the priority. Those who represent the view that there is some priority of international law in relation to domestic law are wrong, although it is written in the Constitutional Charter, and this should be implemented by the end of the events in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There is no reason why Dont's election principle should be cast out in the mandate. He's famous, he's efficient, he's impersonal, he has no decimal expressions and some other indiscretions, like some that are mentioned here. Again, I have to make a point of a brutal fraud, a political fraud, that decimal term has been inserted into the Law on Local Elections, the Assembly has been deceived, as nothing can be justified that this National Assembly has not changed its Law on Local Elections. These are the reasons that motivated us to submit this amendment and propose to the MPs to respect these reasons, especially the first reason, that there is no majority in the electoral legislation. If our Law on selecting MPs is the result of a round table and a consensus reached on that round table, I must remind you that one of the controversial points of that round table was the Supervisory Board. We don't have it today. All those who doubt what I have said, let them look at the 1992 stenograms, and they will recognize some politicians who are still active today, how much they have objected to why there is no supervisory board and it is incorporated into our electoral legislation. We don't have it today. There is no reason to change the principle by which the mandates are assigned and in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11002	Anyone else want a word? The word has been made by MP Zoran Ćirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11003	I'm talking about the letter of the law. This law is only vulnerable at two points. He's vulnerable in Articles 17 and 18, he's not clear here. I'm using Mr. Minister's presence and I'm asking him a question, and he wasn't present for a moment, if the National Minority Party gets an election ratio of 0.9 or 0.6, it doesn't matter, and the decimal part is the largest or most important part of the list, whether it won the mandate or not. For the simple reason that Article 17 says that census does not exist for national minority parties. That's why I think the law should say, "There shouldn't be, but let there be a threshold that must be won." If 5% is necessary for all, then let it be said that the natural threshold, i.e. the electoral threshold to be obtained when the number of valid ballots is divided by the total parliamentary quota, is declared a threshold. Secondly, Dont's more quantifiable course of talks with the opposition ten years ago. Talks have been under way about changes in the electoral system. The electoral system in Serbia has been adopted to change and not to be majority, but to be proportionate, and the real proportional system is this. Dont's ratio is 19th-century fluid, but he's kind of hyperproportional, because he favors someone, and we say, it's not fair. Why was it necessary to change the electoral system? For the simple reason that in the majority electoral system you can be second to each constituency and that you do not have any MPs in parliament, for the simple reason that you are not the first, because only the first one passes. There is no such fear in the proportional system, or such handicap has been excluded at the start. Let's remember in 1990, after the first multi-party elections that were majority and voted for the name, the SPO voter won around 850,000 votes at the time. The application of the proportional system followed between 45 and 50 mandates, and it won only 19, for the simple reason that only 19 constituency after the first and second electoral rounds won the most votes. When it comes to decimals, there's no reason to be afraid, Mr. Krasic. The same decimals exist on Dont's scale. It's not a problem at all. And that's where it compares which ratio is larger. Therefore, it is expressed in a decimal part. But there is another lack of this law - which the possible situation cannot solve. So the bill promoter believes that if the two electoral lists have the same decimal part, then the advantage is determined by draw, and I say that's the last measure. When it can't be determined in any way, then we're left with a cube. But there's a way. It was supposed to be in the law that if the two electoral lists had the same decimal part, the advantage had that list that had a larger number of parts in that constituency, and if it happened to be the same, then the advantage had a list that had been submitted earlier. If two electoral lists happen to win the same amount, or win the same number of votes and are handed over on the same day, only then remains a draw as a solution, because there are no other criteria. In practice, if these elections happen, although I'm not sure there will be, and if this law remains in force, and I believe it will, I'm afraid it will create misunderstandings to the main electoral committee, or RIK, as Serbia is one electoral unit, it determines this final result in this case. If that happens, then it's wrong, because everyone has to have a census, just let someone be favored, let there be positive discrimination, but it has to be determined that there's a threshold that means something. In law, unfortunately, it doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11004	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11005	It has to be answered simply for the truth. After all, he was just one of the MPs who directly participated in the work of the round table. He was young, and then he had a little bit of a shadow over the political public, because two young politicians showed some politicians with greater experience on how to do and what to do. Yes, in 1992, the electoral system was changed. The majority went to proportional. At that time, for the first time in our recent history, it was also in pre-war Yugoslavia, but after 1945 in the distribution of the mandate used Dontt's principle, the system of the largest scale. Why? Because a full, ordinary, proportional system doesn't give the right picture. Even if the electoral censorship decreases, then the political scene takes the form of a circus. If you have reduced the censorship to 3% and if you apply these decimal terms, then you have this situation that we are all witnessing today in local self-government, that something that is not a politically relevant factor is located in the Assembly and you don't know who it represents, you don't know what policy is, what is ideology, what is that view, what is that thing. It's just a battle for places, for some positions, without any ideology or any policy. Dontt's election principle in the distribution of the mandates of the most minimum forshir, during the distribution of the last or several final mandates that are controversial, if they were to go to a full proportional system and assign to the lists that received the largest number of votes. It's that necessary natural priority, because if it wasn't there, it could never even form power. You have proof of this by these local self-governments. Look, everyone with each and every aspect, just to get the president of the municipality's assembly or in some political trade, achieves a place in a municipal council or a public enterprise. Do you also want the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly to turn the electoral principle into something that happens in local self-government, and everyone is against the Law on Local Elections. It's just a question of courage, who can come here and publicly say he's against it. When we talk in one small round of MPs, everyone complains about the Local Elections Act. By the time I got out, let me explain one thing to you. When you talk about these censorships and talk about the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly, then I must remind you that there is a slightly different law in Montenegro on selecting MPs. There are reserved seats. If you thought that this way, and I see that you have already forced this way of the natural threshold, etc., catch some connection, then I warn you that we will have two different electoral systems, practically, i.e. the allocation of mandates in Montenegro and Serbia, of course, provided that Montenegro accepts in general that direct elections should elect MPs for the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. Take care. However, we as citizens should be divided on an ideological basis, which someone represents in the political sense the views of the left, right, centre, etc., but do not introduce anything else, the act of birth itself as a criterion for the division and inequality of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. What would most of you say if it were in the Rules of Procedure that one vote of the opposition was worth 1.3? You're pushing it into our laws that someone's voice is worth 1.3 - 1.4. Could you, under these conditions, be power? What would happen? Take care of these things, because it's a very serious law, so that we don't get into a situation where we laugh when we see what's gotten into the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly, without a political view, without ideology, people come in and then you say, "Here, someone's ruining our country." You wouldn't happen to have made this kind of bill and made it possible to decompose it, would you?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11006	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee suggests that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee suggests that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11007	With this amendment, we have tried to draw your attention that the Law on the Selection of MPs should be subsidized. After all, this bill may also have three to five members. See if there is a need for elections to be organised abroad. If any of the MPs do not know, if any of the citizens do not know, then I must tell you that in these halls you could hear on your mobile phone: “Listen, Mom, I’m going to London. What are you going to do? I'm in control of some choices. They paid me everything, and that's where I'm gonna show up. “ As a whole, gather what was voted abroad by our citizens. That's under 10,000. He needs records, he needs boxes, he needs these, he needs what needs, he needs a election board, he needs diaries, he needs visas. For what? To make several thousand of our citizens take advantage of their electoral rights. So that someone wouldn't accuse me of depriveing this amendment of some electoral right, I'm just saying let the law on the election of MPs be changed, and to avoid voting in polling stations, special polling stations abroad. We're not such a rich country that we can arrange it. You made a spectacular announcement in May of this year – diaspora, diaspora, so there are 10,000 people. One polling post in one country, so it takes 300, 400, 500 kilometers to come to take advantage of that right, and we're not so rich that we can organise those elections. I do not raise the question whether our citizens abroad should vote when it comes to certain matters concerning the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia. I don't answer that question theoretically or practically, so that you don't insult anyone. Our economic position does not allow us to organise and conduct elections abroad, because this country has a shortcut to work. It is likely that I am not exaggerating, but surely between 300 and 500 000 euros to hold these elections. All the states formed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia were bitterly repented when they built into their law to vote abroad. One of them paid two and a half million euros, resulting in nothing. She just made an even bigger fight in the diaspora and an even greater animosity of those citizens towards their country. Our citizens abroad are not interested in this, because we are not even able to enable them to exercise their electoral right under the same conditions as citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think this is a good topic to point out that the ministry finally provides a single polling list, to settle those records, to allow each voter to vote and to include all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the single vote list. I'm talking about a unique polling list. We must go to meet, if you already have a serious intention to bring about a new constitution, and prepare these lists of voters who would declare the Constitution in the referendum. We do not have the right to deny the possibility for some voters to declare this future constitution in a referendum. You'd better focus those money you've spent on foreign polling stations to sort out the voter's list, it'll be more useful. No one has had a positive experience with the election abroad and that is quite a reason to adopt this amendment. This amendment does not dictate the Law on the selection of MPs, but is particularly intruding that there will be no vote at polling stations abroad. Whoever wants to take advantage of his electoral right will come to the Republic of Serbia in a polling post where he is regularly enrolled in his residence and will exercise his right. The situation is, we don't have the money to throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11008	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11009	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I think this is an amendment that should be considered seriously. For us in the DS, it is not a question of whether the right to vote should be given, or whether it should be possible to give voting rights to fellow citizens living abroad. However, the elections we had when it was first made possible for our citizens living abroad to vote, this experience is at least devastating. Statistics indicate that less than 1% of our citizens abroad reported and voted in those elections, and the costs were enormous. I would not say that it is so much about the indifference of our citizens, as it is about the objective inability of our country at this time to open up an appropriate number of places where our citizens could go to these elections. Therefore, the country's superior task is to allow the next parliamentary elections to be free to vote abroad, in order to ultimately understand why such money has been spent on voting abroad, and perhaps we should consider this amendment, because these elections for the Serbia-Montenegro state union are in some way specific elections and perhaps should be accepted for the sake of saving big money. So, I suggest that the ministry consider the amendment of counterpart Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11010	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Dr Zoran Lončar, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11011	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot begin a final word on the draft law on the election of MPs to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, except to express my gratitude for everything we had during yesterday's and today's debates from you to hear here. My conclusion would be that in terms of this law, an extremely high degree of political consent has been reached. Serbia is needed at this time, in order to achieve such issues as the direct election of MPs in the Assembly of the State, as one of the vital state interests at the moment, a high degree of political consent, at least the same degree of political consent, and perhaps even higher, as it was in the government of the Republic of Serbia when the bill was adopted without any vote against. This once again showed that Serbia's political scene has indeed seen a qualitative shift in the past few months, that all political factors in Serbia are able to identify things that are of paramount state interest, forget each other's party differences and make a positive statement on such issues. Given the fact that no full political consensus has been reached here during the debate on the need to adopt this law, I will only briefly refer to some remarks made during yesterday's and today's debates. We had the opportunity to hear, during yesterday in particular, the objection that this law should not be passed, but that an agreement must be reached on extending the term of office to the present members of the Assembly of the State for another year until the referendum is called. Not only does a referendum under the Constitutional Charter never occur automatically, but after three years of the adoption of the Constitutional Charter only the possibility that one of the Member States, and these do not have to be both, has the possibility to initiate a referendum declaration by its citizens under those criteria. But much more important than that, the fundamental question is that political, as in ordinary life, arrangements are needed. In politics, moreover, it's the essence of things, especially if we have questions that we disagree on. However, in politics, as in ordinary life, there are things that can and must be discussed and negotiated, but also cannot and must never be negotiated. Respect for the Constitution and the law of a country is just a question that can never be negotiated. The Constitution and the laws must be respected. For those who are not acceptable to the provisions of the Constitution and the law, there is a legitimate procedure for their change, so if they disagree, this procedure is the best way to check the weight of their political ideas they advocate. I hope that never again after this pay phone, where I am presently, no one will give a position, let alone a proposal that you or some other perhaps congregational assembly declare itself to extend its mandate. The argument is that these elections are expensive; they may be, but elections are the basis of democracy. The most expensive thing for a country is when democracy is gone. Advocating the idea of postponing these elections, which are expecting us in early February next year, at this point is nothing more than running away from the elections, since the choice is the basis of a democratic way of ruling, it is also running away from nothing but the electoral will of the citizens. As moral as it is, we had the opportunity to hear during yesterday's debate on this speaker, to push against one level of government organisation, while sitting in one of the chairs that this level of organisation provides, as a representative of the government, I am not going to plead, but I hope that the best and real answer to that question will give citizens very soon. For me, as a representative of the government, it is of particular importance that for all political actors in Serbia, the amendment to the Serbian Constitution, which is being carried out in order to comply with the Constitutional Charter, is a matter if not greater, then at least as important as the adoption of legislation for the election of MPs, and is foreseen by the Constitutional Charter. So, the issue for no political group is disputed, and I am particularly pleased that within all parties made up of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there are no disputed substantive solutions to the draft constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which are fully rested in full respect of the Constitutional Charter of the State. In the end, I need to answer some questions that were specifically asked here yesterday. Among other things, there was a finding that in my opening address I presented a fact that did not stand, which is that this law was on the agenda of the RIK at the draft stage. I made an exact point and the Election Commission was considering it at its session of November 12th this year. It was the 58th session, and it was then a single item of the agenda. But since it was Friday, likely that the congregation may not have taken up the meeting that day, it may have been quite a failure for someone. Also, there's a record from that session and it's here. I can show it, if necessary. Also, I have been asked three questions by MP Markovic, vice president of the assembly. I am particularly pleased to get a question that I will be able to answer with one sentence and I hope that as a lawyer and as a member of the political option which, on the basis of the questions asked, I conclude, once again advocates a consistent respect for the Constitution and the law, the answer will fully satisfy itself. My answer would be to those three questions - if there was no agreement on respect for the Constitution and the law, in this case the Constitutional Charter of the State Community and the law implementing that act. Finally, the answer to a pledge from this assembly speaker from today's session concerns the way in which members of the national minorities' rights are protected, since it provides for this law to be different. The assembly majority, which supports the government of the Republic of Serbia, among the first acts, and this was adopted in February of this year, were amendments to the Law on the election of MPs, which, among other things, enabled the parties of national minorities to so-called the right to positive discrimination. As a representative of the Government, I believe that this is a major step forward in the protection of the rights of members of the national minorities. Surely, ways of protection can be further improved, however, except that I heard of this speaker a principle of objection on improving the possible way of protecting the rights of national minorities, I did not have a concrete example of this way of getting to know him in the form of the proposal or at a session of the Government Council for National Minorities, and he was also made up of the presidents of all national councils of national minorities, so these are extra-party figures. Unfortunately, neither here in any particular form of amendment from any MP who advocates a different way of protecting the rights of national minorities. You yourself have seen, in this sense, one of the amendments tabled by the SRS parliamentary group and it refers to eradicating the right of positive discrimination between the parties of national minorities, as set out in this law. Finally, I thank you once again for expressing a high degree of political agreement with this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11012	Replica, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11013	Mr. Secretary, from your answer to me, it could be concluded that we have a different view of this issue. I think that in the discussion yesterday, we made it quite clear that the position that is identical to your position, that is, the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the respect of the Constitutional Charter, and I think that the party to which I belong is consistently in favour of the respect of the Constitution and the law all this time. I didn't realize we'd ever given up on that. Since I haven't heard your best, I have to tell you, here at the chair isn't the same as sitting down, it's not disputed, so for us respecting the Constitutional Charter, and if you allow me, I'll repeat just one sentence from yesterday, and that is that if we agree to break the Constitutional Charter, in which society we will live, the oligarchs will be able to agree on everything, but it will no longer be the rule of law. I have the impression that we understand each other completely. My question was more, I was simply interested as an MP, a response from the government to any moves of leadership in Montenegro on the choice of indirect and direct. That was my first question. The second question was, I think you can, but of course you don't have to answer, since you're just a resolute minister, the issue of dissonance in the government of the Republic of Serbia regarding not only the survival of the state community, but such concrete things as respect or violation of the Constitutional Charter. Of course, I mean the position of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister who are completely opposite. My third question is whether or not the Government is now, I know that's a very delicate question, has a view on the use of the rights of Article 60. The constitutional charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro refers to the holding of a referendum. So, I really don't think we had anything controversial yesterday, these were just questions, quite legitimate, referred to the government. In the end, I hope that this law will be passed by a large majority and that in February we will have elections for the state union, as prescribed by the Constitutional Charter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11014	Mr. Krasic, I didn't understand that you were mentioned or that something... (Zoran Krasic, from the post: Do you want to follow the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11015	Now I'm going to explain everything nicely. It is unacceptable for the minister to come out and say - I have not heard anything concrete except one amendment, etc. Of course, it refers to the SRS amendment relating to the electoral censorship, but I must explain both to the minister and to the government and to the parliamentary majority, parliamentary rights are universal rights. There's no division there. Any division would lead to discrimination, even apartheid. That's what we were talking about. We made a principled point of view. In a civil society, where the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees equality and equality of all citizens, you are now introducing some difference based on birth. We specifically cited it to you, Mr. Minister, and I know that you know about this problem, who it is and what it will determine which party of national minorities it is. I'll take something for example. One party with Chanka makes a coalition, what is it? Who's the one who can forbid someone from being in a coalition with someone? You've entered a very dangerous area without a proper view of the area. Simple and simple. If we talk about certain specificities, some specificities, again our constitution has regulated this, so he said - protection, preservation and development are guaranteed, which -- linguistic personalities, cultural, educational. Please, you're going to some kind of political personality. You have no right to do that. I guess we here in the Assembly are dividing by political views, so the radicals with one view, the DSS has another view, the heterogeneous composition is by birth, by religious membership within each parliamentary group, so it should be. Why are you chasing us into something that can be dangerous? If you take a simple system of numbers, then compare with us and somewhere abroad, France, Germany, etc., there is no such positive discrimination. You've been fooled by someone. Someone put you in one system. That system is called decommissioning. A census decreases, a new proportion is being introduced in the division, what is it going to look like politically? That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11016	Thank you. Does the minister want a word? Yeah. Here you are, Dr. Zoran Lonchar, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11017	Thank you. I'll just have a quick answer. As for Parliamentarian Markovic's questions, I can only conclude once more, not having concrete answers to every question, of course, I remembered what questions were asked yesterday, and I think I answered very clearly, with one finding that has been raised, which is a general answer to all three questions asked. There are things that can and must be discussed, but there are also things that you can never talk about, nor can you talk about, which is a consistent respect for the Constitution and the law, in our case the Constitutional Charter and the Law for its implementation. As for dissonant tones within the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I was present at a session in early November when a proposal for this law was set out that you are here today. Once again, what I said earlier, when the bill was passed, there was no vote against it. As for the parties of national minorities, we believe that the parties of national minorities should enjoy special protection, as well as members of national minorities in other areas of social life in Serbia, and we believe that this way of protection should at least be as provided at the republican level. The specificity of these choices should not be reflected in a different way of protecting parties and members of national minorities. That, in response to this amendment, was a clear view of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11018	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and in whole. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Presupervision of Military Courts, Military Prosecutors and Defence You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarović, Milan Stevovic, Vjerica Radeta, Vojislav Milajic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Milovan Radovanovic, Sreto Peric and Petar Jojic. Amendments to be submitted to the Rules of Procedure until the opening of the search will be served during the session. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a principled search. Does the proposing representative, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have a very short bill in front of you, but it's very important to me. This is one of the special laws that we fulfil all our obligations under the Constitutional Charter and which we confirm that Serbia is behind the Serbia-Montenegro community, and that it will do everything possible to make those commitments it has made under the Charter and fulfil. The law has special meaning regarding the military as one of the key segments of each country. We were in a relatively ungrateful situation. The law was to be passed earlier, but after the law on the transfer of jurisdiction to the republic, Montenegro was obstructing it, driven by a desire to show that there is no community, so it passed the Law on jurisdiction, as they say, although there was no federal law giving them the right to do so. But they wanted to show that the republic itself was working and did not wait for the adoption of the law of the Serbia-Montenegro community, because it was being dragged around and they did one thing that was wrong. The law said that jurisdiction is transferred to civil courts and de facto abolished the existence of any form of specificity related to the military or military judiciary. We were patient and waited for this federal law to be passed after all. He was brought in with a delay, whether he was deliberately at the end of November or for some other reason, I don't know, but in this short time we did this law and in accordance with the passed Law on the transfer of jurisdiction we assumed what was passed on to us. We kept an eye on it because it was an extremely important segment of each country – its security, and we felt that, regardless of the jurisdiction being transferred to the level of republics and civil courts, it was necessary to retain these specificities and therefore we left the special departments of military courts, the prosecution, the defences and the units in prisons, since it was a specific matter exclusively for the military. Right now, let me say that so far, as far as I know, of all the countries in the transition of all the two countries have de facto abolished military courts and, as far as I have information, they're returning them. It has proved to be a bad solution and the necessity that there are specific institutions that will regulate this specific matter. For these reasons, the law is short, based on the judicial system provided for in this Republic and jurisdiction is determined in accordance with the Law on the Real Jurisdiction of Courts. We have three departments at the District Court in Belgrade, Nis and Novi Sad, as a second-degree department at the Supreme Court, the Republic Prosecutor's Office and the D.A.'s office and a special unit at the Nis prison. I don't think there should be any controversy here. I see by the number of amendments that there is absolute agreement in those basic things that regulate this law. For these reasons, I will not take up much of your time, possibly, for the discussion you have, but to ask you to make this law known so that we can clearly show that this republic is ready to fulfil all its obligations in, in my opinion, one vital interest to preserve the common state of Serbia-Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11020	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Milos Aligrudic, head of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11021	As I said yesterday about that second item of the agenda that we finished today, it's about two interests that can be seen. The first interest is the interest of maintaining the state union, its survival, and that is both state and national interest. There is another interest, and that is the interest of joining the European Union. Both of these interests do not have to be considered our common interests, but each of us in this room identifies at least one of these two interests as very important interests for the citizens of this country. Since this law, as the minister said, meets all the obligations given to the Constitutional Charter as Serbia, I ask that on behalf of both of these interests or at least one of them we all vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11022	The speech is attended by MP Milan Markovic, an authorised representative of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11023	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, the adoption of this law certainly cannot be questioned in principle, as it was with the law we discussed yesterday. It is simply a commitment from the Constitutional Charter, and the Constitutional Charter is the highest legal act of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. It was created as an expression of the will of the National Assembly, the Assembly of Montenegro, and at the end of the then MPs of the Federal Assembly. There's practically no dilemma here for us. This is for article 66. It's a charter and it's good to have it on the agenda today, and we welcome it completely. However, we did notice one issue I would like to discuss and hear the opinion of the minister, and I would like the MPs to pay attention to that question. Namely, Article 10. The bill provides for status issues, and this article reads as follows: "The provisions of the Law governing the regulation of courts, the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors apply to persons who perform duties or tasks in the military departments of courts and public prosecutors." I must say immediately that we fully welcome the fact that you have provided for special departments and I think you are absolutely right and that the practical reasons are in favour of such a solution, and unlike this law of Montenegro on taking over the jurisdiction of military courts and military prosecutors, which is far smaller and has five members, I think you have done a better law and that this is in relation to this law progress, i.e. that colleagues in Montenegro will probably be forced within some later period of practicality to change something in their law. So I understood that in that way that those who work in those departments are normally in the same status as all the other judges, like all the other people who work in those departments. In the light of the law, it states that Article 10 of the Law sets out the application of the rules in the status matters for persons to perform their duties, i.e. to carry out tasks and tasks in the military departments of courts and public prosecutors. And I also understood that in that way, but I would like to get an answer to another question: is it predicted on the basis of this provision, on the basis of this Article 10, is the takeover of judges who qualify to be judges of military courts in these courts? The Democratic Party's opinion is that this could not be done. If so, the legislator wanted to explicitly state that provision and then to see on the Legislative Committee whether that provision was in accordance with the Constitution. The point is that the choice of judges is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Judges. The choice of judges of military courts is quite different and Article 26. The law on military courts provides that judges of first-degree military courts are appointed by the President of the Republic. So this is how these people became judges, the President of the Republic appointed them as President of the Court. Our Law on Judges stipulates in Article 9 that judges and the president of the court are elected and that their duties are decided by the National Assembly, and later in the election procedure, it is said that the election of judges is advertised by the High Council of Justice, and the advertisement is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" or in the second medium of public notification, followed by the submission of applications, evidence of meeting the conditions for choice is submitted, data and opinions are obtained, and then the High Council of Justice takes into account the expertise and dignity, it suggests, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia elects the judge on the proposal of the High Council of Justice, and this is the way the choice of judges in Serbia. I think that if, under this law, we would practically take over judges from military courts to be judges in civil courts to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Judges and de facto introduce discrepancies in the very system of choice of judges in the Republic of Serbia. So that's the only point that's in question for the Democratic Party. I'm not gonna take up any more of your time, and I'd like you to explain to us what the Ministry's position is on this matter. But I'm going to tell you right now, I think by simple language interpretation, by reading the law, and in the end, by reading the argument, it turns out that the judges of military courts will not be taken to civil courts under this law. On the other hand, there's obviously going to be an increased need for judges. As a result, the National Assembly should make the choice of judges within a short period of time, but that choice must be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with the laws that we have adopted on this issue. In order for someone to become a judge, he must go through the legal procedure of his choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11024	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Zoran Stojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11025	About this question, I'll try to give you a brief answer. The constitution provides for a judicial function as a permanent function. In case the courts or mergers are lifted, the judge is going to court, he says, at least the same rank. We had this in mind when we passed this law and knowing about this possibility and the question of choice was different. I have to say, there have been different choices here for these bodies, and in the immediate past, it has been, for example, that the deputy prosecutor is proposed by the minister and elected by the government. It was 2002-2003. Therefore, there were different ways of choosing, but what was fundamental in the Constitution for all was that the judicial function was permanent. With that in mind and in this law, I think even one amendment has specified it, we have introduced that the provisions of the Law on Regular Courts apply to them, and they say, when one court is abolished, the judge will move to court, using this right to a permanent function, similar or equal rank. It's this case. We were taking care of this and not to get into a situation that would violate the Law of the Republic of Serbia, and that provision was introduced, and it seems to me that the amendment was precise, that it would strictly apply the provisions of the Law on Judges, Prosecutors and Advocates, i.e. To be clear, he who has terms and has been chosen as judge, and has conditions for a judge, he can cross over; for in the courts of war you had judges who had no authority under the law, they would not be able to cross over. They won't be able to apply these rules. Only those people who really meet all the conditions, and to be exact, graduate college, passed a judicial exam, will be able to cross over. I don't think there's gonna be a problem here, but right now, we've already talked to the High Council, so we'll see if they're even formally repeated their choice or not, but basically we'll stick to the basic rule that the permanent function is a judge and that he has to get a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11026	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for the application for a word, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted by the SRS and DSS parliamentary groups. I give my word to the People's Messenger Goran Rakovec, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11027	Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, as you yourself said in your opening statement, we have today a proposal for a short law, but a law that is extremely important. In fact, in your opening statement, you pointed out that it was more than important for a few reasons to pass this law, at this very time, to Article 66. The constitutional charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which specified that the jurisdiction of military courts, prosecutors and defences be transferred to the authorities of the Member States, could be implemented. This is especially because the National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro passed a law in the middle of November and found that the authorities of the Republic of Serbia took over military courts and that the actual transfer of jurisdiction was carried out by 31.12. In 2004. As you said, neither the shorter nor the more important law, and Article 1 itself is a specific subject, which determines the way in which military judges, military prosecutors and military defences are taken over against the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Article 3 provides, in the process of this matter, for the trial in the first degree, as well as for the execution of the prison sentence, to be designated as the competent District Court in Belgrade, the District Court in Novi Sad and the District Court in Nis, where courts form special military departments. Serbia's Supreme Court forms a military department of Serbia's Supreme Court. The prosecutions monitor the jurisdiction of military courts that move to civilian courts, so that in public prosecutors in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis assume jurisdiction from military prosecutors. The prosecutions are facing district courts in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis. What is good, and what you have pointed out, and I see that representatives of other parliamentary groups here also point out that it is good, that special military departments are formed here, as well as the military department of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. As far as the D.A.'s office is concerned, the work done by the military public defendership has been fully taken over by the Republic Public Attorney's office. I believe that there is still a need to highlight here the way in which the detention, i.e. the formation of military detention units at the Belgrade district prisons, Novi Sad and the Niš Penitentiary Institute, as well as the way in which they will support, that is, the place where prisons will be held by convicted military persons who, by law, retain the property of a military person and after a conviction, who are educated by a special military department in the Niš Penitentiary Institute. The obligation of the Republic of Serbia is to pass this law by 31.12. this year and this is one in a series of laws that emerged from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and especially from the Ministry of Justice. I expect there to be no dissonant tones in this law and this law to be passed as one of the laws to be passed with a convincing congregation majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11028	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the MP Petar Cvetkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11029	As a normal consequence of the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter, which allowed the decommissioning of the military and military justice remained on ice. You see, the one who brought the Constitutional Charter, it's all well predicted, it fits into chronology, and it's time to pass one of these laws. This could have been done by changing several laws, and above all by the Law on Regulating Courts, the Law on Judges, the Law on Public Prosecution, the Law on Criminal Penalty and the Law treated by the Attorney General. The promoter has defined himself on this mini omnibus law which, in practice, in that statusal, organisational part tried to arrange those basic things, so that the trial could be organised for those crimes that were designated as war crimes in our basic criminal law. The main objection by the SRS is expressed in several amendments, where we believe it is much more correct from both the point of view and your Constitutional Charter and that of the 66th to transfer jurisdiction from the military to, someone says civil, and I say the regular authorities of the Republic of Serbia, and what from the court, which from the prosecution, and what from the institutions and the institution for the execution of criminal sanctions. And not to waste my time on amendments, since I'm going to explain it for each of these amendments, in this decommissioning of the military, you saw, your peak came about a month ago, when a special state commission was formed with an obvious task of interfering in the work of military judicial authorities. It's not good when someone on the side gets involved in judicial matters, whether he's a journalist or a state commission, especially that kind of composition. First of all, when I talk about the composition, I mean what we've been presented in the media is that the leadership of this state commission, the lawyer that always appears, as a bird of the ominous, whenever something ugly, bad, with his intelligence and, of course, with his artists from the Fifth District Court, where he was working as a judge, it's a common thing and there's no need to interpret God knows what. Who knows what's going on in the justice system, he knows exactly what lawyer hired the expert when he was a criminal in the Fifth District Court. So that's where one story is made so that it can go through the media, and, by the way, a little bit of a surprise to the citizens and that the military comes to this level of popularity that they say is 30 percent, with about 70%, in this difficult state. With this law, practically, the regular judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia are receiving this jurisdiction. What a good solution that is, I don't think any of us can say with precision. There are countries where specialised military courts exist, and there are countries where regular courts are tried for war crimes, and there is a special group of violations and acts that are not the subject of today's debate. A specialised department is needed because of the specificities of these crimes, because a judge who judges for slander, insult, mild and severe physical injury, the cause of danger, etc. cannot judge these crimes, because he does not know the specificities of military service and the elements of the being of these very specific crimes. I think there's a good solution here, and it's a good thing the government has accepted our amendment that we've only explained what needs to be applied in this organization under the existing Law on Court Order. It is the elemental specialisation, so that these procedures are uniform and that judicial protection can be effectively achieved. For us, it's not a controversial choice of judges, prosecutors, what someone says is taking over. Of course, these people are professionals, they worked, they probably need to be renewed, and they're probably supposed to have an election priority, because they specialize in these jobs. What can in some ways lead to confusion in this law, and it is not so much about our organisation of courts, but about, above all, what the army is following and what will follow the army. Yesterday we heard Nebojsa Covic say -- don't pull an army off that line there, and the Supreme Defence Council wants to withdraw the army. Imagine, one Nebojsa Covic retarded, one who did not know by 17 March to say "terrorists", but said "extremists". He changed his mind. I'm afraid even this good intention doesn't fit into something that's insidious, which is erosion, degradation, and still disabling our army. I have to tell you, when the military authorities report a crime, so until they reach the prosecutor in a special department, etc., that this relationship did not break some of the natural ties that existed, which worked for 50 years. You take this, first of all, as a warning to what the minister needs, since he is authorized to settle this by his sublegal acts, to pay attention. This moment, quite clearly, is not the matter of this law, but it can have a major impact on the achievement of judicial protection when it comes to both these crimes and other matters that have been in the jurisdiction of the military judicial authorities. I'm afraid we don't help those who, at all costs, want to degrade our army in a material way, so why don't we say it in a moral sense. Disdainment has long begun, and I think the highlight of the moment when the indictments against the military persons who acted in accordance with the law, orders and otherwise defended their country and this people. You see, there's been this kind of mental diversion, so those who bombed our country are not criminals, the charges have been dropped. Of course, Batic made an agreement to abolish the Supreme Court, return to the retrial, and then the prosecutor had to drop the charges, and so the case was closed, so overnight the war criminals became great friends, because some were embarrassed to shake hands with a representative of the European Union and some state, and there is a verdict and there is an obligation by the authorities to carry out the verdict. So as soon as he lands at the airport, right into the march, CZ, let's discuss the question of who did what. Of course, Batić was never ready for that. He's talking now, he's got his theme -- Haradinaj, but I think his main theme was Carla del Ponte. He needs to pay attention. Get ready, they'll keep coming after this army of ours. It's this whole sector of NGOs, these non-military advisors, military advisors. Look, we have really weird things going on here. A man as a captain retires, a disabled pension. Because of these experiments, I have to explain-- when a man goes into disability, he's thought to have lost his ability to work. So he's incapacitated. He becomes an advisor to the president not these of us, but those of the state community, imagine, even for military matters. So take care of it. This idea you're promoting by this law is probably the only one, and I can't say it's the only alternative, because the alternatives are practically gone. We are not passing this law because of the European Community, because of the Partnership for Peace, but because of the elemental order in the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia will not give up its armies, such as the other republic, may not publicly, but it has made some of its consistent actions known that they do not need the military, so let's sell out everything. That's why I warn those who had their eye on military property, they were wrong, there is a very strong tradition of military respect and uniformity in Serbia. Make sure you don't overdo it, because there's a jurisdiction for military crimes, and there's a jurisdiction for civilians to respond for some of the things they've done and for the armed forces of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11030	The People's MP Petar Cvetkovic has the word, so let the MP Sreto Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11031	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members, I have been honored by some MPs of the majority, MPs of the DSS, to say a word about this law. I will be very brief, given that there has been no different opinion in the discussions so far or any objection to the bill on taking over the jurisdiction of military courts, military prosecutors and military defences. At least for this pay phone, there's no point in an objection from either side of the political group. Also, there were no objections from the professional public, so without twisting, we can say that the legislator or the Ministry of Justice has earned all praise for this bill, regardless of what, as distinguished counterpart Krasic said before me, this law by the number of provisions, or by the number of members of a small law, which is in its own way part and represents one system law. It is also the orientation of the Ministry to enforce jurisdiction by such a law, not by adopting a number of laws, five, six or more, exactly correct and that it is the easiest and most correct and political and legal to pass such a law, and that from the following year, i.e. from 1 January or 31 December of this year, regular courts have been acting in these criminal acts which have so far been the jurisdiction of military legislation. It is also possible and proper to identify the promoters, and I hope, without any dilemmas and us in the Assembly, that by adopting this law, we will allow regular courts in the military departments to be tried for war crimes. On condition I say “war” crimes, because these are acts, as you know, of which military courts have conducted so far. The solutions given by law are fully, as I said, in line with current practice, i.e. with the legal system, and they are entirely consistent with our present moment. I would have just been prompted by a discussion I welcome, by discussing my predecessor, that the bill and this law that we're going to pass is not going to go any way to diminish the military's reputation. On the contrary, not that it has nothing to do with it, but the adoption of this law is precisely aimed at increasing the reputation of both the military and state institutions, both in Serbia and the state community. At this insistence, the DSS has always been in its current behaviour and programme, and as we can see, this republican government is on these tasks, as it has so far correctly pointed out. Therefore, it is not necessary to waste much time adopting this law. The solutions are also known to MPs and citizens, the solutions are those that are, as I said, the only possible and in line with legal science, legal practice and the legal system of the state of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. It is therefore necessary to support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11032	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must say I am concerned by this law which is on the agenda today and which we are to pass. Now I'm gonna say what I'm worried about. The causes that led to us putting this law on the agenda today, that's what makes me worried. Mr. Zoran Krasic said this dates not only from the adoption of the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter, but also from before, and it went about chronically and gradually. In his opening statement, the minister said that the community, i.e. the Serbia-Montenegro Community Assembly, passed the law on November 18th and obliged the Member States to further elaborate the law, i.e. to implement the concreteisation. When it comes to this law itself, it's done quite well and I think the SRS parliamentary group has no major objections, I think our amendments are more technical, and there's something essential, but it's going towards improving the text of this law. I assume the minister and his associates took care of the distribution of competences by county courts in Article 3. We see that the Belgrade District Court will be in charge of the areas of seven other district courts, the Novi Sad District Court for five, and the Nis District Court for 15, but I suppose the minister and his associates have taken care of this and there will be no major problems. I'm afraid that one day, of course, I'm not so ominous and I don't think we're going to experience it, this tall house is not going to be in a situation no matter where they call it, it's not the law to abolish the military, because the conduct of individual officials and high-ranking officials of our country and community leads to it, and I think it's terrible. A previous minister has contributed to the rapid collapse of the army, i.e. to collapse and to the loss of confidence among Serbian citizens. You saw, just recently, a class of soldiers had to go to regular military service, and that's a growing number of recruits, and she didn't respond at all, and even the civil service of the military had not been agreed before. You see, and the establishment of this state commission didn't come up for no reason right now, because it may have seemed to someone that this law would not be on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament, so let's also encourage a little public opinion to challenge such a law as soon as possible. I think the representative of the DSS parliamentary group has cited two reasons why this law should be supported. One is certainly the preservation of the Serbia-Montenegro community above all. The SRS parliamentary group is for the preservation of the Serbia-Montenegro community, with great efforts to do so. For the EU accession process, I don't think this law has much importance, but there is no more serious EU accession until the SRS comes to power, because we really do want it to happen, and we're going to make this happen, and this is now more of a declarative character, and I don't think that this second reason is serious, but it's enough for this first reason that we are going to support this, so the MPs of the SRS Group will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11034	The People's Messenger, Verica Radet, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11035	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will repeat today what I presented in yesterday's discussion, which is the fact that the SRS was the most fierce opponent of the signing of the Belgrade Agreement and the adoption of the Constitutional Charter. Why do I keep saying that? Because this law is also one of the reasons why it should have been against it. We knew that everything that happened in the meantime, we knew that both the Belgrade Programme and the Constitutional Charter were in fact a programme for the decommissioning of Serbia-Montenegro's common state, which is something we can never and will not accept. Mr. Minister said -- this is a very short but important law. It is, Mr. Minister, a very short bill, but a law that needs to concern us all. We know and understand the need for this law to be passed in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, but I'd like to hear if you all understand what this Constitutional Charter really wanted and what the one who planted this Constitutional Charter wanted. They told my colleagues that the decommissioning of the army began in advance. No one here said, and I'm going to say, decommissioning the army, destroying the reputation of the Yugoslav army began in early 2001. Much has happened in the meantime, and state officials, state officials, took part in destroying the reputation and destruction of the Yugoslav Army, the Serbia-Montenegro Army. The current president of Serbia as military minister began, the current foreign minister, the current military minister, the current finance minister of the Republic of Serbia, continued. Everyone in their own way destroys the reputation of the army of them. Each of them plays in its own way with the Serbia-Montenegro Army, which means, playing with Serbia, playing with Montenegro, playing with the people both in Serbia and Montenegro. With that, the SRS can never and will not agree. As far as this law is concerned, the fact is that it was created as a result of our obligation under the Constitutional Charter. On the very text of the law we don't have some god-knows-what remarks, we've had just like this since the beginning, from the very title of the law. The law is called - a bill on the taking over of jurisdiction of military courts, military prosecutors and military defences, and we think it is in accordance with the terms of the procedural laws to make it a law on the transfer of jurisdiction and in that sense are our amendments. Let's say in article 11, you say, "the objects and things of the military courts so far." We thought it was supposed to be deleted because it's unnecessary. So these are military courts, no present and present, but military courts still. Some of the amendments have been accepted by the minister as a representative of the promoter, some have not, but that is not the essence of our comments on this law. The point is, then, a relationship to the Serbia-Montenegro Army. The minister himself said that many countries in transition have not passed such laws, and those who have, that they are returning military courts again, and I will remind you all that America has a military court. I don't think it was wise at all to create conditions for the abolition of military courts, because there are some acts that must be conducted in front of military judicial authorities. There are military secrets, I don't know how it's gonna be regulated, unless you're wide-ranging about taking down the military secrets obligation, as the official state authorities do when it comes to the secrets that Carly de Ponte needs, but that's why the documentation required by the team that helps Vojislav Seselj to defend us to this day has not been obtained, even though it's long been promised. All of these are the problems of all Serbian citizens, and all of these are the problems they easily overcome. The easiest thing to say is, here's a short bill of 13 members, we have to follow the Constitutional Charter, fulfill our obligations. Well, well, the citizens would think, God, that this assembly is effective, that they do, everything they have to do, but I don't know what we're gonna do with those citizens who transferred at ten o'clock to the Third Channel to watch the Assembly, and we don't start here until 11:30, but that's another topic for another story. My colleague Zoran Krasic and I would like to warn the current senior military officials, start with the minister and above all the minister, not to play with the military, not to play with military property, not to sign contracts such as Minister Davinic signed, and then says, it was not a contract, it is just a pre-contract and does not produce any financial consequences. Products, for God's sake, and thus the adverse consequences of Serbia's state and Serbia-Montenegro's military. Of course, the current president of Serbia, then Minister Boris Tadic, started these crimes in the military. Davinić obviously follows it this neatly. Why did I mention all these names, now I'm going back to it. Tadic and Davinic are related to certain malfeasances in terms of assets, arms sales, sales of military facilities, etc. I hope that one day these courts, which will be promoted through this law, will really do their job, or judges, to do their job, so that they will ask certain questions and probably make appropriate decisions for everything that has been done in our army for the last four years. Why did I mention the current foreign minister, therefore, Mr. Vuk Draskovic? I think that what he did and said about the military, that his invitation to our young people not to join the army, because it was an invitation to them, not a call to parents, as it was said, as Ms. Danica Draskovic and Vuk Draskovic said, because parents do not go to the army and do not go to the underage children. So they can't invite their parents not to send their children into the army, because they're going into the army for a full-time young man who wants to join the army. The invitation not to go to the army is the most embarrassing and embarrassing thing that could have happened. Even if someone who deals with politics, who is currently in opposition, may have some reason to perform in this way, it would be a disgrace and a shame, and it is especially a shame when the official minister in Serbia-Montenegro says so. Why did I say that Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, is also working to bring down the military's reputation? Because we read the papers every day, and they're gonna give money to the military, and they're not gonna give money, and they're gonna cut budget costs. Such a degradation of the army, ladies and gentlemen, is inadmissible. We are a people who, my colleague Krasic said, are very true to tradition, which holds to their army and we have to stop the destruction of the army, we have to stop the decommissioning of the army, and that's what we need to deal with, and that's what we need to talk about, and this law, ladies and gentlemen, is not going in that direction. It does not go, however, specifically as law or in the direction of decommissioning, but it is the consequence of the Constitutional Charter which, now clearly, was aimed at, among other things, the decommissioning of the common army. So the decommissioning of Serbia-Montenegro's army in general. That's why we have this law now, and that's why we need to ask ourselves why it had to come to this law. There is no need even to say something concrete about the bill itself, but about what preceded our obligation to pass this law. That's what every MP needs to worry about, and that's what needs to worry and worry about every citizen in Serbia. Unfortunately, what's there is, we got what we got. I hope that we will endure all together to really preserve this state community, even if this is what it is, to preserve the Serbia-Montenegro community, because believe me, without it it will not be good for Serbia or Montenegro. I'm going to say one more sentence about this law and that of Article 10 that speaks of status issues. The question has already been raised here in what way, what will happen to the current military judges, prosecutors and lawyers. The minister gave the answer, and my colleague Krasic said he had nothing to do with it, but in what he later said, it is normal for these people to have a priority in the election. It's really not a question. But I'm not sure, Minister, that in the way you imagined and how you explained here you would satisfy all the laws in force that regulate this matter. I think there were other laws to be harmonised, if that's how you think you should do it. Can't exactly a military judge from a military court go to this court in principle I'm going from a company to a company, a store salesman goes to another store. We also have the Constitutional Charter, and the Constitution and the Law on Court Orders, etc. I'm not sure you'll be able to comply with all these regulations and do it the way you did it. I believe you'll do it the best way and these people who were employed in military courts, prosecutors, etc. be properly taken care of, but I hope first of all that this law will not contribute to further destruction and destruction of the Serbia-Montenegro Army. I repeat, Serbs are a people who greatly appreciate the army and I ask you that, as MPs, we are taking care of it at all times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11036	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we of the SRS parliamentary group felt that this law, as it is, is better to bring it now than to leave the unresolved issue for quite some time. The question is whether military courts should be abolished and whether they should be transferred to the jurisdiction of civil courts of acts concerning only the military is a question that should be discussed a little more, and we believe that military courts should not have been abolished, but that these laws concerning the military prosecution should also be applied. However, the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter oblige this state, and we were both against the Belgrade Agreement and against the Constitutional Charter, as it is, obliging this country to arrange this part, as soon as a year, less or more, military courts have been blocked. They were allowed to deal with some fundamental and less problematic issues, but in all major issues they could not make judgments, that is exactly what the Constitutional Charter itself was. It is asked by the Minister, the Ministry and the People's MPs, as well as the state of Serbia that will have to come to order very quickly, which is whether the courts, prosecutors and the defences are ready and able, humane, to take over this job as well. The fact is that the prosecutions, from municipal to republican, and courts, from municipal to republican, are overcrowded with cases, that few people have and that those people who are in these courts or prosecutors are falling from their feet. It is necessary that, in addition to what we are going to do, the minister consider increasing the number of perpetrators in the prosecutions and courts. This country can't be stingy. As for military departments, special departments in courts, it's normal to see people who are ready to demobilize, because they are now becoming civilian judges and, above all, they need to be provided with work in these departments, because also criminal acts relating to the military area are a little specific to crimes that are in civil society. Here is the question of the trial that started in military courts for acts that, first of all, cost this country a lot of money, and I mean the trial that started with Ex-general Perisic, because as far as I can remember, the Supreme Defence Council took away the act and did not return it to him, but I do know that the paper was full of 15 days of headlines about how Perisic, having obtained military documents, had replaced the bag of military documents for a bag of money. Although, this bag he got was also Samsonite, the other one was just a leather bag, but probably the value in that bag was far greater than what they could cover with money. The ex-general called for immunity because at the time he was, I think, a federal envoy and that's where he cares. Since he is no longer a federal MP and vice-president of the government, since he is an ordinary citizen of this state, unless he has moved on to one of the ruling parties, I think this procedure should proceed urgently, as more and more spies will be. Spying seems to be the most profitable branch of the operation of individuals who once ruled Serbia. Now, as a state, we have another big problem that will have to be dealt with urgently, perhaps in collaboration with these departments, and perhaps normal civilian courts to solve. For years, the "Yugoimport" SDPR for military surpluses, military equipment, outdated, found a market outside the country and sold. Now it's formed, thanks to a bit of shortsighted, and perhaps a little bit of the long-toed idea of the ruling furniture, some kind of trust fund that literally ingests and sells out, runs on military property. The phantom organization that robs the most directly the property, when I say military property, I mean first of all the property that they bought at the end of the line by means of the citizens of this country. Therefore, the robbery of the military is at the same time a robbery of the state. I read in the paper that the fund had sold its submarine in time, and no one had asked anyone about it and, Mr. Prophetic will remind me, it was five million euros for that submarine, so they took five million euros, and where they were directed, God knows. Preparations for the sale of Karadjordjeva or at least renting for about 20 or 120 years, I don't remember, and the question of what and what is the value of Karadjordjevo is the issue of all issues, invaluable wealth. Someone wants to rob and rob and that part that seems a little civilian, but it's been under military jurisdiction until today. The last affair that has just opened, which is most likely, if this judiciary does its job, ends up with prisons and fat prison sentences, is the issue of selling the Military Institute building on Katanić Street, where, by first estimates, the building was sold to some American construction company, I don't remember what it's called, because it doesn't matter who bought it, but what commission it gave, for 300 and some apartments, and a total of 25 percent less than it's worth. The same phantom company opened a jury account in Montenegro and all assets sold, all military assets sold, funds remain in Montenegro. She opened an account at the Delta Bank in Belgrade and no one lives except for a few leading the fund knows where and how much money is in those accounts and where that money is being spent. Had it not been for some internal debate in G17 plus, I almost made a lapus so to say G17 per cent, Dinkic from G17 criticises Davinic from G17 why the building was sold by 20% to 25% cheaper. Davinic from G17 says no contract has been signed, a pre-contract has been signed and we come to the paper, a contract signed and a contract binding on this state unless the signatories of the contract are arrested. Robbery only on this case is amazing. Now it's going to be called G 25%, because about 25% of the value is gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11038	Please talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11039	I'm just talking about what these military departments are gonna have to do right now. This is just a few cases we read in the press. As much as there really is, it will only be seen and only the means of public information, if someone doesn't put a lock on them, will they be able to let us know. All this I've been talking about points to a terrible attack on the military as an institution, with the aim of making the army's reputation to the people the simplest way, and the fact is that we now have under 50% of the response in the last call for military service, and that means that the reputation of the army and those who are to serve the army has fallen drastically. Children recruits go to hospitals for civilian service. They do the dirtiest jobs in all the services they've signed with military departments, the dirtiest jobs, and the president of the Republic in the People's Office. There are recruits there who serve the army. The other healthy part of Serbia has sent its sons to military service, because it believes that these people have to dress, to defend perhaps already in the spring of this country, because as things stand, more and more of the Shipara is specifically armed and there is a great danger that those three municipalities, which they have long had their eye on, and the whole south of Serbia that they've thrown their eye at, but they're not talking about, are being kidnapped. Whether he who is now holding a broom in one of the hospitals or holding a plot in the National Office is ready and able to take a rifle and defend the state or they will continue to hold brooms in hospitals and playgrounds in the office of the president of the state, we will only see it, but I think it's deliberately breaking not only the reputation of the military, but also the defence power of this country. Therefore, these military departments that will be formed in courts will have their hands full, if they will, and if they are allowed to work, I hope so. The fact that Perisic sold a bag of documents only caught up with it and was caught by military investigative authorities and began to prosecute a military court. The fact that it didn't get caught, that it was going to the trucks and that the spies from all over everything possessed all the institutions, started with the government in 2000, after that famous bulldozer revolution, and that in many ministries was spoken exclusively in English, there and there you hear a certain Serbian word from those cleaning women and coffee cooks who didn't quite learn English, that's another story. The special round was run by NGOs or how you beat their NGOs there in 2001, and I mean the various Sonja Biserko, Natasha Kandić, Olivera Vuco, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11040	Mr. Markovic, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11041	I beg you, Mr. Chairman, calm down a little of the MPs so they can hear my presentations to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11042	I will, my dear, but stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11043	So these departments will have their hands full, and we expect the Minister and the Ministry to especially protect them and enable them to work fully, while no policies have an impact on work. And the army as an institution, regardless of all the mud these days by these NGOs throws at it, remains clean and remains the only stumbling block for all the enemies on the outside, and rich for the enemies on the inside.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11044	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? The speech is attended by MP Milan Markovic, an authorised representative of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11045	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must once again return to this Article 10, on status issues. I don't think your answer stands, yet your interpretation doesn't stand, for the simple reason that if we already have some disagreement over the norms of the same legal force and the same character, then we need to look up and see what the Constitution says. The Constitution literally states in Article 73, paragraph 10, that the National Assembly is choosing and authorising judges of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and other courts. That's how it's regulated in the Republic of Serbia. Military courts aren't regular courts. These are the courts established by federal law and existed at the level of the federal state. We in Serbia must, above all, apply the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws relating to these issues, which were brought by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think that you've actually made a good proposal before, and I think this could be resolved in the following way, to call a competition that would have been called only by judges who worked, and that's true for prosecutors, to report to the competition, to pass the High Council of Justice procedure, to come to the National Assembly and to have the National Assembly exercise its jurisdiction, to make the choice of these judges. And that, on the other hand, the judge's authority participates in the selection of legal holders, because the changes we have made in this assembly are precisely what we have given to the judiciary. In the end, the judges elected in this way will have full legitimacy in their work, in relation to their fellow judges who have been elected by regular procedure will in no way be discriminated against, nor will anyone tomorrow be able to honor them that there they are not chosen by the National Assembly. I think it will personally and professionally mean a lot more to them to be elected by this home, that is, by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Again, it seems to me that the text of the law does not allow a different solution to this problem, that is, this issue. I think the text of the law makes it impossible to execute the takeover of judges of military courts, and the same goes for public prosecutors, in regular courts and in our prosecutions. If this were to be settled in this way, I think we could determine that we did a good job today, a significant job, respected the provisions of the Constitutional Charter and did what our mission was today. I think that the competition could be called very quickly, I guess it's a matter of days and that it could be made very quickly by the choice of these judges. I also believe that members of the High Council of Justice and also members of this House have no doubts about the professionality and quality of people who are now performing these functions in military courts. That would be my final proposal as a representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club -- Boris Tadic. Since this is how we understand this law, to interpret it like this, and to think that it is impossible to interpret this Article 10, we will, of course, make a positive statement about the law that we discussed today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11046	The word has Minister Zoran Stojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11047	As far as this is concerned, that's where we agreed, that's what I said, just that it's going to be in my essence form; people have met the conditions, they're going to go through the Council, and they're going to have that priority that they can work. I don't think it's anything, in my opinion, controversial, and so did Ambassador Krasic. I just wanted to give a little explanation, because there's a fear coming out, he says, is there going to be a further reputation for this army? Don't doubt any last intentions, even in the making of this law, we've hired judges and presidents of the military court, the prosecution and the D.A.'s office, and we've done this with them. Believe it was a good intention. We'll do our best to preserve their reputation. As far as this remark is concerned, a number of amendments have been accepted because of the precision and improvement of the clarity of the law itself. It was just a question of whether to download or transfer. Here, let me try, will we possibly be able to shorten the debate on the amendments, because there are a large number of amendments to the same content. The charter says it'll be transmitted. We've been waiting for a federal law that was passed and said, "We're passing on to the republics." We could have done the same thing and written it, transmitted it, but we would have done what the Montenegrins do, not admit it to the community, but we ourselves. We've waited for them, they've passed the law and they say we transfer jurisdiction, and the law says, and you take it and we take it. Therefore, there is a provision on the takeover of jurisdiction. I think it's better because of this explanation, because from that common level they're transferring, and we're taking over. I hope that if it is accepted, there won't be much debate, because those three amendments are accepted, precise, improving the clarity of the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11048	I'm finishing the initial search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment to the bill. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11049	The Constitutional Charter is the result of a very problematic compromise. In Article 66. The DOS Constitutional Charters and the DPS, as the feathers of the project, have written that military jurisdiction is being transferred, let me also use the word, irregular, judicial authorities to the Republic of the Member States. Accordingly, if the constitutional charter is respected, then the amendment would have to be accepted, because there is a difference, as the government says, taking over the jurisdiction of military courts, military prosecutors and military defences. The law should be called - law on the transfer of jurisdiction of military courts, prosecutors and defences. For what? I want to explain to you why. It is obvious that the military-judicial office is no longer in the jurisdiction of the state union, in the very letter of the Constitutional Charter. This has passed on to the Member States. Formal-legal even the law of the state union was not necessary, but could be passed a law where the Republic of Serbia, which has in the meantime received jurisdiction, transfers jurisdiction and determines, perhaps even more correctly, the authorities that assume that competence. It's called transfer of jurisdiction. It's not just a termology, it's a matter of essence. In this way, we recognise the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia to judge, conditionally speaking, war crimes and by law determine which of the state authorities is responsible for. The fact is that the other amendments apply to this, not only to these amendments, but I could tell you, since it's in an organic relationship to Article 1, unlike you, you here say to the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, and here in Article 1, we're potential according to that constitutional charter. That's the big difference. You didn't notice there was a big difference. She's not just a termological nature. After all, in procedural laws, a little more seriously look at the jurisdiction provisions, talk about the transfer of jurisdiction. A senior body shall transfer jurisdiction. The National Assembly is a senior organ and it's being transmitted, and this is about determining. That is why it was much more correct that with the amendments and additions to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Law on Judges, the Law on Public Prosecution, the Law on Public Defence and the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, with an amendment of one or two members, you solved this matter in a quality way, because in essence this mini omnibus law, we are supplementing these laws. In the legal order, we will have the Law on the Regulation of Courts and several other members of this law, the Law on Judges and several other members of this law, the Law on Public Prosecutors and several more of these members. It will suddenly be divided. So it might be a more correct way to change these five laws with one or two provisions of material content and in transitional provisions to regulate the issues that arise here, unnecessarily controversial issues. In that sense, it's a more adequate term that points to what we're doing. Today we transfer that jurisdiction to regular courts. We can't say they're taking over. From who? From the federal authorities? The federal authorities no longer have that jurisdiction and could not pass it on to the republican authorities, but that they determine. It became an area called the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Time.) ) This has become a special area under the Constitutional Charter, not this law passed by the state union, but the Constitutional Charter itself has complemented our provisions on the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia. We now transfer that jurisdiction, determine the organ.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11050	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) One notice for you, we have a little further discussion in particular, and then I will set a break. National MP Milan Stevovic has submitted the amendment name of Chapter II, the title above the members and Article 2. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The People's MP Milan Stevović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11051	I will really briefly, given that MP Krasic, our colleague from the SRS, explained in detail what this is about. I believe that the Assembly is a legislative body, but at this point, the Assembly is transmuting, transferring certain powers to military courts, from military to regular.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11052	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. As the representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted an amendment to the title above the members and Article 5. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has submitted an amendment to the title above members and Article 7. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. As the representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. As the representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? Here you go. The word has the minister of justice Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11053	I want to thank you. What's said here was really about the purely professional side. I think we agreed on some questions here. I want to thank you for your cooperation and to say that we have definitely fulfilled all obligations under the Charter. Although there have been some dissonant tones in the previous days, they are only dissonant tones. I hope that we will have a great majority of votes in this assembly to show that we care about the common state, so that the future international community will not need to address us and that, possibly, it is talking about some of the problems that are emerging here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11054	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm setting a break until 3:15.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11055	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work today's session. Since 117 MPs are present at this time, I ask that we establish a quorum for work. I'm asking the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system MPs. I understand we have a quorum to work with. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – The election of the member of the Republic's Committee for Resolution on the conflict of Interest with the list submitted by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts You have received a list of candidates for the selection of members of the Republic Committee to resolve the conflict of interest submitted by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After having conducted a single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the election of members of the Republic Committee to resolve a conflict of interest. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – STOP OF FUNCTION AND THE CHOICE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE FUNCTIONS For this item of the agenda, you have made proposals for decisions made by the Committee on Justice and Administration: 1. Proposal for a decision on the termination of office of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, 2. A motion for a decision to suspend Serbia's Supreme Court of Justice. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the representative of Proposer Jovan Palalic, chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Since we have conducted a unique search on decision-making proposals, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on proposals for decisions in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the selection of the PUBLIC INFORMATION REFERRED TO BY THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES PROPOSAL OF THE Committee on Culture and Information. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information want a word? Alexander Lazarevic, president of the Committee? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11056	Dear People's MPs, Article 1(2). The law on free access to information of public importance, in order to exercise the right to access information of public importance at the disposal of public authorities, has established a trustee for information of public importance, as an independent state body independent of the exercise of its competence. Article 30 of Article 1 of the Law states that the trustee is elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Committee of the National Assembly responsible for the Information. I am merely informing you that the Committee on Culture and Information was responsible, at a session held on 10 December 2004, set out a proposal for a trustee candidate to be in front of the Committee, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic. The Committee had in mind its earlier engagement as chairman of the Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms Commission, which the National Assembly educated in 2003, in order to prepare the text of the New Constitution proposal, then the President of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for gender equality and the activities of the establishment of a body for gender equality. We also had in mind the projects in which Mr Sabic was involved, and these projects are related to the improvement of human rights and freedom and the development of the local self-government system. So, most of the votes were proposed by Mr. Shabic as a trustee, considering that he and as a person, and also as a man who has already proved to be a good organizer, he can do this responsible job and that in fact this new law that we are also passing is a new body that Mr. Sabic will rightly organise and I think he will be very flexible to hear all the proposals, all the comments and will do his job in the right way, and I ask you to support Mr. Sabic as a trustee in free access to information of public importance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-22-0.u11057	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the Serbian Parliamentary Movement of Reconstruction Group – New Serbia. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Vojislav Mihailovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) And there is Mr. Velimir Stanojevic. No, I don't. "Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative, the People's MP, the Prophet Radeta, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision, which was submitted by the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Miloljub Albianic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. Since we have completed the debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint today the 22nd of December 2004 as a voting day, starting at 17.00 p.m., and then all of you who have done a huge job in this House are invited to a cocktail. [[After break – 17.25]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day. We approach the vote on items of the eighth session of the agenda. Today's vote is attended by the Prime Minister and ministers, at the invitation of the speaker of the assembly. Thank you. [[Applause]] Please determine the quorum before work begins. I'm asking the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic system, we have a voting quorum. Let's wait for all fellow MPs to settle in, please. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Selection of MEPS OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE As the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly in principle. For 172, v. 29, abstention one, of 202 MPs. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that during the search of the draft law, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of MP Zoran Krasic to Article 11. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 61, against 99, they did not vote 43 out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 61, against 96, there was no vote of 47, of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 61, against 97, did not vote 46 out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 61, against 97, did not vote 46 out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to vote the bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly as a whole. For 174 against 28, two of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Presupposal of Military Courts, Military Prosecutions and Military Justice Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. [[Applause]] I am putting to the vote the draft law on taking over the jurisdiction of military courts, military prosecutors and military defences in principle. For 127, they did not vote four out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that it has been established that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the Members of the People's Parliaments of the Verica Rade to Article 4, Sreta Periæ, member of the 11th and Peter Jojic, member of the 12th. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment to the bill. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 126, there were no 11 votes, out of 196 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 126, there were 14 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milan Stevovic submitted an amendment to the title of Chapter 2, title above members and Article 2. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 126, there was no 18 vote, of 202 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted an amendment to the title above the members and Article 5. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 125, there was no 18 vote, of 202 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted an amendment to the title above members and Article 7. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 124, 19 of the 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 126, there was no 18 vote, of 202 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on taking over the jurisdiction of military courts, military prosecutors and military defences in general. For 127, against, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the takeover of jurisdiction of military courts, military prosecutors and military attorneys. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - MEETING OF THE MEMBER OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC COMMITTEE ON THE FIELD OF INTERNAL PARTICIPATION OF THE SPECIFICS AND ARTS Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, we move to decision-making. I remind you that the National Assembly, at the Second Session of the Second Regular Session in 2004, held on 2 November 2004, did not elect a member of the Republic Committee for Dispute Resolution, since no proposed candidate received the necessary majority of votes from the MPs. The list contains two candidates, which is: 1. Dr Danica Petrovic, director of the SANU Music Institute, 2. Academic Zoran Konstantinovic. We will vote on each candidate on the list individually, and a candidate has been elected who received most of the votes of the MPs present and at the same time the largest number of votes. We're approaching the vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Danica Petrovic, director of SANU Musicological Institute, as a member of the Republic Committee on Conflict of Interests. For 115, against one, did not vote 27 out of 144 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect academicist Zoran Konstantinovic as member of the Republic Committee on Conflict of Interest. For 18, against one, abstentioned four, 135 of the 158 MPs did not vote. As a result of the vote, I find that a member of the Republic Committee on Conflict of Interests has been elected a candidate who received most of the votes of the MPs present and at the same time the largest number of votes, which is Dr Danica Petrovic. Let me, on your behalf and on your behalf, congratulate the elected member of the Republic Committee on the conflict of interest on the election. We move on to the 4th point of the agenda: - STOP THE FUNCTION AND CHOICE OF LAWAL FUNCTIONS Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search on decision-making proposals, we move to decision-making. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the office of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. For 126, against one, it did not vote 30 out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the office of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the office of the Supreme Court of Serbia. For 126, there were no 26 votes, a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the office of the Supreme Court of Serbia. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - I would like to put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the selection of information information from public significance, since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, I would like to put the proposal for a decision on the selection of trustees for information of public importance. For 123, a abstentioned one, not voted 30, out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to elect trustees for information of public importance. Let me congratulate Mr. Rodoljub Šabić on his choice on your behalf and on your behalf. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Parliamentary Movement of Reconstruction - New Serbia. One, a total of 198 MPs did not vote for 197. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. One, a total of 198 MPs did not vote for 197. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENT OF DECISIONS ON THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Two, a total of 198 MPs did not vote for 196. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the motions for decisions, I ask if you agree that all adopted proposals for publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" are as one legally-technically united act - a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 181, there was no 11 vote, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Since we've done an examination of all the points of the agenda and the decision on them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the eighth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Just two information, please. At this point, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed 87 laws and 96 decisions this year, which is the highest in the history of one-year work to which it convenes the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I congratulate you all. I invite you, Prime Minister and members of the government to a cocktail, and at the same time I remind the members of the Constitutional Affairs Committee that tomorrow the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, at 13.00 hours, is in the presidential room.
