ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2258	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Eighth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 158 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 102 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 5th item of the agenda : - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxation on Use, COUNTRY AND NOSE OF GOODS (existing in Details) The People's MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The Finance Committee and the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sava Urosevic and Milutin Svetovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Hranislav Peric. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does Mrs. Radeta want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2259	Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone still believes there is a difference between DOS Vojislav Kostunica until December 28th last year and the DOS of Vojislav Kostunica after December 28th last year, he is very wrong. In addition, to this claim, it is also a member of the 13th. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Donations of the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods. Article 13 provides for retroactive application of this law, i.e. Articles 9 and 10 of this Act. You all know that laws cannot be applied retroactively, that they cannot have a retroactive fact. You also know well, most in this National Assembly, or most of the officials whose parties have MPs in this National Assembly, in this assembly, in the election campaign, mentioned the famous statement by President Sonja Brkic, who said it was true that the laws cannot be retroactively applied, but if necessary, opportunities can be found. I ask you, who now needed these provisions to be applied retroactively? Clearly, this needed Mladjan Dinkic, who, thanks to your votes, would have the opportunity to fill Serbia's budget legally. The DSS and its officials in the election campaign, and besides that, they are called and called on to be legalists and promise to protect the legal security of citizens. I ask you, is the legal certainty of citizens protected by laws being passed with retroactive application? I warn Serbian citizens that they are keeping an account, they can expect to receive subsequent bills for all the taxes they had on the republican budget, which they have already settled down, but it is never known when this government will need more money and when it will demand that the increased commitments be paid retroactively, as in this case. Em, you've increased your taxes to a certain good, and you're looking for retroactive application. For weapons, for personal security it was a tax of 900 dinars, now 2,000 dinars. For carrying arms, the tax was 4,500, and now it's 10,000 dinars, and for 10,000 dinars you can buy a gun. So whoever buys it has to pay taxes to the state as much as he paid for it. During last week, during a debate on these law packages, you tried to impose the thesis that Mr Tomislav Nikolic said in his statement and said something against hunting associations. That's not true, because in law, in Article 25. The law that you are changing, in the position of the first, point 6) stands – a hunting weapon (one hunting carbin or a combined hunting weapon and one hunting rifle) of the members of the hunting association that owns the hunting ticket for the current year, issued in accordance with Article 39(5). Hunting law. This weapon, according to the law, was tax-free. Therefore, you have not helped any real hunters with your proposal, and those with more than two rifles are, you know, the most recent and newly-compromised suspicious rich men, who with their weapons and their so-called. Hunting bothers hunters and animals as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2260	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2261	Ladies and gentlemen, the point here is, in general, mobile phones and cell phones taxes, that this is double taxation. Of course, if the budget of the Republic of Serbia provides for mobile tax revenue, then it can be accepted that taxation remains until the end of 2004, and that in 2005 it remains only, in fact, a tax on the use of a mobile phone i.e. at the level of the amount spent. In fact, this isn't just about an increase of 200 to 300 dinars. That's one problem. The other problem is that there's an imbalance in taxation here, that without regard to whether anyone spent 300 dinars, he pays 300 dinars and the one who pays 30,000 dinars a month for a mobile phone, for spent impulses, pays 300 dinars. It is logical to ensure equality, in the sense that as much as it is spent, a tax on it is paid. I realized that this amendment would only be accepted in a different form. It is not important to form, the most important thing is that the essence is accepted and that in 2005, starting on January 1st, this taxation of Serbian citizens ceases.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2262	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, does the proposing representative want a word? He's not here. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLACES ON ACCISATIONS (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Dejan Rajčić, Dusan Proroković, Hranislav Peric, Veroljub Arsic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Zoran Antic, Milko Štimac, Branislav Rankic and Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the amendment to Article 6 was withdrawn by MP Dusan Prorokovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm asking the motionary's representative to come forward. He's not here. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2263	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. It's a bill of law. Article 2 reads: "The basis for the calculation of excise duty on imports of coffee (cheese, fried, milled and extracted coffee) makes the value of the product established by customs regulations, increased by the amount of customs duties and other import duties". I suggested that this bill be deleted. Reason: I don't think the introduction of this kind of excise on coffee in our country should be adopted. We know that coffee is a national drink, that you drink in the country more than anything else, and in this way we've brought the population into a situation to buy coffee of a higher quality, means to define, because of the price, for the worse quality of coffee. I know from my parents' stories that coffee was made of barley during the occupation. We will bring our people so far as to start drinking the worst quality coffee because the prices are uneven. The earlier solution is much more accessible to us. It leveled the price of coffee, and the quality you set for yourself, according to what you liked better. That's why my proposal is to delete this amendment for the introduction of these excise duties.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2264	Does anyone else want a word in this aman? On Article 2 of the amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dusan Prorokovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer's representative accepted this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milko Šimac. The Finance Committee and the Proposer's representative accepted this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Please, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2265	Article 3 The bill stipulates that excise oil derivatives are paid at the following amounts: all types of motor gasoline 27.50 dn per litre and all types of diesel fuel 16.76 dn/lit. My amendment to this bill is to delete Article 3. The increase in excise duties on oil derivatives shows that the minister realized that he could not fanning the budget from those planned revenues, so he must increase the excise duties affecting the economy and, of course, all citizens, not just those rich. This law should, in my opinion, be made before the budget or rebalance the budget. It is clear that the budget was unreal, when the deficit must be covered by the increase in excise duties. I'm convinced that this law was passed ten days ago, that the pensions that were late for the first time in three years wouldn't be late, because he'd probably managed to settle his budget. I wonder what would happen if this law hadn't been passed to me, then could the budget be settled, which is irrationally designed. I am also in charge of a group of oilists, so to speak, to explain in this amendment that Belgrade, the only one in the Balkans, has one plant, so to speak, a mini-refinery, which of the old oil, which is a very dangerous poison, by refinement makes new oil. Otherwise, in countries where there are no such facilities, and I said this is the only refinery in the Balkans that has one, these wastes are poured into rivers or into the ground, or in various ways they are inadequately delayed. Then it does so in these countries and in those places a real ecological bomb. This refinete is very expensive. The production of this refinete is an irreplaceable way to get rid of this waste by environmental means, and we get money for that. By abolishing the excise duties, this would be at stake. That's why I suggested that this member of the law be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2266	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2267	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic has proposed erasing this member for two basic reasons. The first is that just by erasing the members, they are working in accordance with the declared policy of disbanding the economy and the population. With additional excise burden on oil and oil, we will have a significantly higher burden on Serbia's economy tomorrow, as well as on the population. It is, once again, a reminder of our citizens, contrary to what has been declared in the pre-election campaign, and I will make it clear once again that the redundancies of the economy have been promised and that the incentive measures of the tax policy, and the excise policy is part of the tax policy, will also affect increased economic growth. This will have, contrary to promises, a completely different fact, a reduction in economic activity and, on the other hand, through a greater burden of reducing the competitiveness of the economy. In this way neither the basic reasons mentioned in the reasoning of the law will be met, i.e. the basic objectives. The main objective, on the one hand, is not only to propose membership, but also to the next Article 4, but to reduce the grey economy and increase the inflow. On the contrary, we will have an increase in the grey economy and a reduction in the inflows for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2268	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with my amendment, I've asked for the oil to be deposited and the oil to light the release of excise duty, and for the excise duty to be paid on motor gasoline and diesel fuel to remain the same. In fact, it's not exactly a story that the excise on motor gasoline and diesel fuel only increases by three dinars, specifically for motor gasoline 4,35 dinars, for diesel fuel 3.76 dinars. We get confidence here, both from the G17 parliamentary group and from the Ministry of Finance, that despite the increase in excise duty, motor gasoline and diesel fuel will not have any major disturbances in the retail price and that it will move around 0.5%. So 0.5% is at the price of gasoline, which is now about 25 pairs. I wonder if these gentlemen can mathematically prove to me that 4.5 dinars minus 0.25 pairs equals zero. In my last term, I had a fellow MP who entertained me by trying to prove to me that one and one could be zero, but I think this would be too much for Zeljo Huric right now. So, in any case, it's going to be that the margin that public enterprises are carrying out again, owned by the state, which again fills the budget with its incomes, is poor, on the one hand, because NIS had about 5 billion dinars of surplus in business last year. It was at the price of the euro, when it moved around 62 dinars, and now it's 70 dinars. So this must be taken into account, and with the already existing solution, these public enterprises are being reduced. By insisting that the price of gasoline remains the same, and since they are owned by the government of the Republic of Serbia, they can also force NIS and Jugopetrol to maintain existing prices and these companies will deal with losses. What is the reason why these two profitable companies, which took part in budgeting, are dealing with losses? One reason could also be that it is a political demagogy and a pre-election promise for your presidential candidates Dragan Marsican and Boris Tadic. On the other hand, that NIS may be slowly but certainly destroying itself, reducing crafts, reducing capital, reducing investment at the expense of some of the government's policies, and the university that these businesses in the privatisation process are reducing value, just for as much as Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic earned by robbing people and citizens of Serbia through electricity. So, a row of 300m to 400m euros and that money belonging to Serbian citizens is bought by NIS and Jugopetrol.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2270	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is not much to be said to explain the purpose of this amendment, which is in some sense better than the amendment submitted by Mrs Leila Ruzdic, because it abolishes the excise duties on certain products to which the excise duty really needs to be lifted. He doesn't delete an entire member of the bill, but the bill promoter is obliged to go out for a pay phone when he comes from abroad, so he can tell us that it's possible to increase the excise gas by 19%, the diesel excise by 29%, and not increase the fuel price. Who's going to take the cost of increasing the excise duty? NIS, which should be impoverished and whose fate is uncertain or certainly bad, is currently in place by Zeljko Popovic, the godfather of Vojin Lazarevic. I want to take advantage of the opportunity and show that your relationship to the budget and the budgeting, that budget planning, even though you didn't have this bill passed. Planning these excises into the budget, although they were not adopted when the Budget Law was passed, could somehow be accepted, as the economy and finance in this government will be run wildly. That's obvious. I would like to know why the MUP continues to do everything the MUPs had done before it, and in doing so, by spending gasoline and oil for which new excise duties will be paid, so last night on the basis of Article 226 concerning members of the 223rd and 224th, they brought in MP Nemanja Sarovic and seven SRS activists, OUP Stari Grad. They've taken six items from them. One, red plastic can, no lid, half filled with glue. Under two, purple plastic cans, no lid, half filled with a blend of glue. Under three, a red brush with a wood handle of 165 centimeters long. Under four, a green brush with a wooden handle length of 140 centimeters. Under five, 124 pieces of poster with the text "Prkos, Freedom, Seselj", dimensions 65h48 cm. Under six, 260 pieces of poster with the text "Prkos, Freedom, Seselj", dimensions 45h33 cm. Who are you dealing with, gentlemen of the new government? What's a crime fight for you? What is it for you to provide public security and security? What's the law on violations for you? Do you have any brakes or anyone here does what they want?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2272	Excuse me, please, Mr. Nikolich...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2273	Everyone sings their own song.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2274	I'm sorry, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2275	More, Mr. Markovic, raise your voice...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2276	No throwing, please, while the speaker speaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2277	Mr. Markovic, don't interrupt me...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2278	Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2279	I don't need your protection, especially when it's cynical and ironic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2280	Please, it's not cynical, it's my duty and I use it every time. Be kind and proceed without distraction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2281	You, Mr. Markovic, raise your voice. Last night the MP was brought in because he was wearing one purple and one pink bucket, half filled with glue and wearing two brushes to make the SRS cry. Here's a new government with old customs, old methods, old standards. How are you going to get through? The way you do, and you do very badly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2282	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Finance Committee and the Proponent Representative have not accepted this amendment, with correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic and MP Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović submitted. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Ms. Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2283	The amendment reads: "Article 4. The bill is deleted. "I have decided not to explain it because I now regret that I have explained the two amendments; what it is worth to explain if a representative of the Government or a Mr. Minister does not sit here to hear the amendments, so that they can identify whether or not they will accept them. That's why I don't want to explain this third amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2284	Thank you. Therefore, the representative of the amendment came forward and did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2285	This is one of the several reasons why the DS parliamentary group will not vote in favour of the proposed law on amendments to the Excise Act. True, this is the most significant reason why the parliamentary group will not vote for this law. In fact, as we listen on one side to encouraging information coming from government officials, how investors are about to start investing in a new road, in a new railway, as large foreign investment arrives, which, however, we from the opposition objectively in talks with these same investors cannot hear. On the other hand, we have really real statements that come from those who invested their money in our country, which is that the amendment of the Excise Act is something that directly affects foreign investors. In my opening statement, when we talked about the law in principle, I said that there are three basic reasons why we think it is wrong to change action policy to excise products in 2004. First, there will be no greater inflow for the budget. On the contrary, the inflow will be reduced because the level of the grey economy, i.e. the smuggling of excise products, will be increased, and I am primarily thinking about tobacco, tobacco products and alcoholic beverages. Secondly, it is not a good change in the ambience for the world's largest investors, multinational companies, who, believing that the change of government does not mean changing the rules of play in this area, have invested a huge amount of money in Serbia. Thanks to these investments last year, we were the leader of the Balkans for the total amount of foreign direct investment. So when we change the ambience, and to the largest multinational companies, don't expect that message to be good for those who are just about to invest. It is enough to look at the reports of international organisations and see that the investment environment in Serbia is significantly worse than it was six years ago. It is enough to see the IMF statements, statements from other international financial organisations and to see how much the difference between the authorities and, on the other hand, those institutions is. As we hear the story on the one hand that an agreement with the IMF, on the other hand, has been reached by warnings from the same fund that Serbia will remain on track, because we are playing with public finance policy, we are playing with economic policy this year. Third, the basic reason why we won't vote for the excise law is an additional imposition on the economy and the population. Instead of entering into the fulfillment of the pre-election promises and reducing the amount of tax, reducing the amount of taxation on the economy and the population, we could already assume in the draft budget law that there would be a significant increase in excise duties, which was again inconclusive, because the draft budget law presupposed that MPs in the National Assembly would adopt a law on excise duties, which is wrong. What if these laws don't pass? What if there is no parliamentary majority, how will then replace the budget deficit, which is 55 billion dinars, and we could see in the days before the holiday, before the Easter holidays, that and that there is a problem with financing budget expenditures. Therefore, an increase in budgetary inflow should not be expected, as the increase in excise duties will only increase the grey economy and significantly reduce the total amount of budgetary inflows.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2286	Anyone else want a word? On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP... I'm sorry, I didn't see you. After the previous amendment, you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regarding the argument offered for this amendment, I would like to say a few sentences. It is not good that any foreign company's business policy also depends on the right of one parliament to pass laws, change excise duties and other acts that are the subject of the work of this parliament and the MPs. I offered part of this argument in an election campaign, claiming that two foreign companies, which bought the Vranje and the Nis tobacco industry, had received a guarantee from the previous government that excise policy would not change over the next few years. That right, on behalf of the Serbian citizens, on behalf of the people's will, no one can say blanco and it is a completely legitimate matter of this parliament and of those MPs who do or support the majority whether or not they will accept it. I'm not a lawyer for this government, but I just wanted to say this, because when someone gets a guarantee that in the next five years they'll be able to produce cigarettes on very precise excise terms, then practically in a few years, they get a gift from the tobacco industry Nis and the tobacco industry Vranje. We can talk about this longer, there's no chance here today. So that's the only reason I answered, to say that it's just not possible, that it's just not normal. One who thinks that this is how the state can function has in mind that it continuously exercises power, but does not bear in mind that the government is variable and that the legitimate people's will is an opportunity to change and change everything that is available to it through the instruments on which parliament operates. The next question, concerning this amendment, a previous debater, or Mrs. Leila Ruzdic, said she would not explain the amendment because there is no minister here and I fully support the argument she offered and I add only one sentence: at least 100 times from this pay phone on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I explained the amendment that has not heard any government representatives. So, everything Mrs. Trifunovic said I support, I just briefly remind her, her and all the other MPs, that this practice was introduced here three years ago and that we were not in a position to communicate with these speakers with the representatives of the government, although our level of argument is often such that the law or amendments could be accepted. There is one even worse thing, at least 20 times it happened that when it was inevitable to accept the amendment of the opposition, MPs from the ruling majority submitted amendments in the same text, and then these amendments were accepted. So much for procedure and stuff, so let's not forget. If someone wants to lead a consistent policy, then they must do so when they are in power and when they are in opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2288	No replica, you're not mentioned. Some of them are mentioned. Mrs. Ruzdic was mentioned. Mr. Vlahovicu, you're not. The speaker stood up and said - not the previous speaker, but Mrs Ruzdic. I listened very carefully. Mrs. Ruzdić can. There's no need for a replica. Thank you. Anyone else want a word by amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2289	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, between 2000 and 2003, there have been a lot of price hikes, both goods and goods that are subject to excise changes. In that period, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that we should keep up with Europe and that we should have European prices for certain products. Of course, it is certain that Serbia today cannot create monopolies and we cannot protect foreign companies in the way previous speakers wanted. We know that it is not popular to raise prices and change product prices and excise prices, but sometimes this situation simply imposes. In addition to foreign companies, we have our companies here, besides foreign companies, we have our companies, and in any case we cannot allow our Serbian companies, domestic companies, to be threatened by making promises to foreign companies that in the next five years we will not change the level of excise duties on excise goods. What is important is to say and what is important, I believe that each assembly has the right to make decisions as appropriate to Serbia. In any case, when a law is passed in this congregation where value added tax will be charged, the grey economy will surely be contained. I hope that this assembly will certainly take this law into consideration and that the law on added value will be passed, and then we will curb the gray economy. For the time being, there may still be a grey economy, but I am sure that this assembly will do everything possible to keep the grey economy down to one minimum, which corresponds to normal democratic states.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2290	Now you have the right to a replica, now you're mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2291	First of all, the companies privatized in Nis and Vranj are not foreign to our company. These companies are run by workers from Nis, Vranja, the environment. Thanks to these companies, the entire chain of tobacco production today employs more than 50,000 workers, including individual agricultural producers and, as you know, wages are higher, and on the other hand payments towards individual agricultural producers of raw tobacco are more regular and much better than they were before privatisation. Excise policy was not created in the previous period for Philip Morris and British American Tobacco, but for our domestic cigarette manufacturers. I'll remind you that in 2001, the Nis tobacco industry only worked in one shift, and occasionally in two shifts. Thanks, first of all, to one balanced excise policy, one extremely sharp control, cigarette smuggling, which was before that more than 90% of the total import cigarettes, was reduced to only 15% in 2003. When we criticise the amendment of the Excise Act, we don't think for a moment about Philip Morris and British American Tobacco, but we are thinking about the fact that it will be caused by the amendment of this law, which is increased smuggling. The increased smuggling will destabilise opportunities in the country, less attractively affect British American Tobacco and Philip Morris to invest their capital in our country, in our businesses where our people, businesses where suppliers will be our agricultural producers of raw tobacco, and that is the basic reason, not some kind of promise we made. We have made no promises that we will implement an excise policy that the previously tobacco industry Nis has raised from 50% capacity use to three-dimensional work and 100% capacity utilisation. Action policy, which is in line with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, with European Union rules, which reduced the smuggling of tobacco products, in particular cigarettes and other excise products and significantly increased the inflow into the budget by excise taxation. As regards the objection which has been made that the previous government and previous ministers were not at Parliament's meetings when individual laws were discussed, on their own case, I responsibly claim that this is not true. I am responsibly saying that all the laws that the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation proposed all along were covered by the presence of not only the minister, but also the employees of the people in the ministry, deputies and assistants at the Ministry, and that at any time we could give the MPs a timely response, with which some agreed, and some did not. But I agree that the entire government was not present and I agree that the other ministries were not present. I also agree that transition problems are difficult and that there is no need to expect the full composition of the government for each item of the agenda. But if the SPS parliamentary group is so bothered by the lack of a minister, we will absolutely support it in the request that we interrupt the session until the ministers who are responsible for certain points of the agenda arrive.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2292	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2293	This may also be a replica and as an amendment announcement, however, it does not matter, but to a respected colleague, Vlahovic, you, which is true, have often attended meetings of the Assembly, but it is even more true that almost no one, however good, has accepted the SPS amendment. Secondly, answer this assembly why it took you so long and necessary to sell the best we had in Serbia - the low and crow tobacco industry. How could you verbally promise gentlemen from the industry that you will not increase excise duties in the future, and that these same gentlemen do not commit to you that they will not increase the price. You've been in the O.R., but here I am, a stone smoker. By 20 days ago, those cigarettes were 32 dinars. Before this discussion of excise duties, the price of "Classics" jumped from 32 dinars to 35 dinars. The proposed increase in excise duty precisely for that classic is one dinar. I'm asking you, will the Nis gentlemen now return the price from 35 to 33 dinars? (Glasses - ask them. ) I ask Vlahovic, who agreed not to increase excise prices. Mr. Nikolic, I wasn't talking to you. I'm sorry. And, one more thing. Whatever you sold, it was good. Look at Beocinska cementar, look at Popovac, look at Kosjerić. At the time you guys sold those cements, that's where the price of cement per tonne was 130 marks. Today it's in these same cements, with new owners, under unchanged conditions, the price of 170 or 180 marks for one ton of cement. What's the problem? If you commit yourself on one side, and verbally, not to change your excise policy, then the other side must be obliged not to raise the price of those products under unchanged conditions, in the factories it purchased. And, don't be too proud of that privatisation, because you've just sold 1,200 companies to your government for an underprivileged 1,200 days, and for the best. And you left the worst, counting on some other government to solve the problem in them. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2294	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Prophetovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2295	The Democratic Party of Serbia cannot accept the amendment, among other things, because the amendment's proposer proposes an amendment to curb the appearance of a larger cigarette smuggling of all three categories. An increase in the price of cigarettes by one or two dinars, depending on whether they fall into the first, second, third, or A, B or C categories, by their quality, cannot additionally burden smokers. Whether cigarettes are going to be 35 or 36 dinars, I don't think it's a question that we can argue about, and whether smokers are going to spend 30 dinars more or less a month on cigarettes. Why did I take your word for it? Because the explanation he's talking about smuggling is absolutely not standing. Accises can increase to what level the prices of all excise goods are in the environment, to prevent so-called. It's a tiny, borderline smuggling. Cigarette prices will now be harmonised, say with prices in Macedonia, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary, where cigarettes are far more expensive than ours. Normally, we won't prevent organized smuggling. Organized smuggling, when smuggling and cigarettes, alcoholic beverages and all other excise goods, hats, boats, trucks, sea roads, rivers, cannot be prevented by increasing or reducing excise duties. Such smuggling is prevented by the active work of security services, the prosecution and the judiciary, and such smuggling is most often supported by state authorities, with knowledge or without the knowledge of the authorities, but thanks to an increase in corruption rates in public administration. Against such smuggling, this government will fight and I hope that we will soon have concrete results.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2296	Thank you. Wait a minute, are you answering the Rules of Procedure or...? The same according to the Rules of Procedure, please agree (at the same time the MP Vlahovic and MP Tomislav Nikolic appear).
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2297	Wait, you're used to sitting here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you see what it's like when there's no minister, so one of the MPs has to explain the government's moves, get into that she has good intentions, and even we're promised...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2298	I'm sorry, just tell us which member you called. Be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2299	... On behalf of the government, to promise us...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2300	Rules of Procedure, which member? TOMISLAV NICOLIC... Good work, Government. Let me go. This is an introduction. There's a working-out... There's a conclusion... Please, on call. It's all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2302	This was an introduction, and in the debate, I'm calling for a member...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2303	By referring to the Rules of Procedure, say which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2304	To article 83 and 94. Can you do it now?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2305	Sure, go ahead. Read article...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2306	And if I said 100 you'd have to shut up and then you better not start...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2307	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2308	... Instead of fighting with me...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2309	No, I'm just doing the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2310	Because according to Article 83 of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly needs to know that at meetings of the National Assembly, in addition to the MPs, members of the Government participate, that I am not even talking about the Secretary of the Secretariat for Legislative Affairs or other authorised proposings. And, under Article 94, I now put it as a proposal, purely because of our consciences that we value the National Assembly, Section 3, I suggest that the President of the National Assembly suspend the work of the National Assembly. If that's what the National Assembly decides, and I suggest that the National Assembly decide to suspend the work of the National Assembly until a government official comes here for this part of the agenda. Because it is unacceptable for us government representatives to be MPs from groups that make up the government. There's no such thing as parliamentaryism. It has been Serbian parliamentarianism for 14 years. You continue that practice. But you don't know whether the government is going to fight it (receives to MP Prophetovic), because you are not a member of the government. You said-- I hope this government stops smuggling, it stops this-- Don't, I don't accept conflicts or disputes with the MPs because I'm in opposition. Because I'm in opposition I want to go into a dispute with a minister who represents a government here, not with you. You support the bill because you voted for the government, otherwise your family, your family, your friends and neighbors ask whether the excise duty should be increased, and to explain it to them by making this much of the price of cigarettes in Croatia, it cannot go away. So, I suggest you put on a vote that the National Assembly will stop working until we get a government official here, or if he's an alien, that the government will have the authority of someone else to represent this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2311	Thank you. I will listen to you, Mr. Nikolic, as I try every time to meet all MPs. Because of the consultation on this, we interrupt the session based on Article 94(2) to 12.00 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 12,20]] We're continuing our work. Please determine if we have a quorum. I ask all MPs to insert their identification cards. I find, by applying the electronic system, that 115 MPs are present in the O.R. We have a quorum to work with. Please don't take this as an abuse, this applies to all of us. So there's no reason to interrupt. I've intervened several times to enable the work of the Assembly, so we don't have what you have in Evening News on the third day of Easter. Let me read it to you; under the TV program, for "Third Channel", 22.30 says – the film "Life Farm", followed by an explanation below – "not a word of the transfer of the Serb assembly, but a very good screening of Orvel's classics, etc., which are subject to human traits that have long since been succumbed to by Serbian parliamentarians. "This kind of insult of course will have to be sanctioned, but I ask you not to give cause at the moment when we all stick to the Rules of Procedure. A proposal has been put to vote on the assembly's interruption until the ministry's representative arrives. I am voting on this proposal from MP Tomislav Nikolic. Who's in favour of suspending the work of the Assembly until a representative of the government arrives? For 81 MPs, against 99, with 19 abstentions, six out of 205 MPs did not vote. Since the proposal didn't get most of it, we're going back to work. I am taking the opportunity to inform you that on all amendments, the Government has given its opinion and responsibility, which this time rests on the government, on my insistence, at your request will be corrected at each next session and I will personally insist on ensuring the government's presence in advance, regardless of whether a search has been completed in principle and whether or not the government's opinions have been given. Mr. Vlahovic called, but he's not here right now. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 4? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milko Stimac. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 4th of the amendment, with the correction of the reasoning, was submitted by MP Dejan Rajcic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dusan Prorokovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer's representative accepted this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee believes that this amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Antic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment was about making a difference between domestic and foreign wines. My wish was for foreign wines to be taxed, i.e. to introduce excise duty for foreign wines, as we had the opportunity to speed up the production of juices, speed up the processing industry and the fruit industry itself, such a bar was the reason for the legislator of the law. I think we should help winemaking. I think the situation in winemaking is extremely difficult. All that data that is official for wine production is quite incorrect. We produce, first of all, unquality wines. We have a hyper-production of wine, and there's a lot of interest in private entrepreneurs to get involved in the production itself and get better quality wines than we had in some previous period. Just for an illustration, I'd say how abandoned winemaking is at all. According to some land books, we have about 120,000 hectares of surface area under vine plantations; from those dealing with this, I have received information that the actual sixth is not in the right sense planted with vine plants; the majority is planted with some other cultures or is rooted. One of the biggest sins of the previous government was the liberalisation of imports of everything and everything, without protective extra customs measures, we came into a situation where our production fell and there's no need to talk about it. It's often heard from this pay phone. I think it's a very good time for this excise law, amendments and additions to the law, to be able to partially correct this situation. I'm aware that this is just a drop in the sea of resources needed by winemakers, because it's an extremely expensive production. However, there is no reason to distinguish between the manufacturer of the juices, including the manufacturer of the hot drinks, because if you noticed, even the excise on hot drinks has not been increased, which also means one aid to the producers of hot drinks. I think you should adopt this command. Perhaps another argument, by introducing an excise duty, would first be burdened with cheaper wine. I've already said that we mainly make cheaper wines, and when it comes to expensive wines, I find that this would not have a significant impact on the price and that excise would not affect the import of foreign wines something more important, but it would leave one possibility for our producers to have more money, more money and more investment in the production itself. Of some arguments, I would also say that gentlemen who advocate faster entry into the European Union have quite a reason to adopt my amendment. Before we enter the European Union, we will have lists of committees that will list every chocolate, every fruit in Serbia and will not allow us to raise our new plantings later without their permission. Our neighbours of Slovenians and Croats have been using every free area for planting, for new plantings for years, not even taking care of quality. They count that, after passing the list, those more unquality varieties can come out and plant some quality varieties. Just another argument for the illustration. Let's say that the world's consumption of wine in the previous year increased by about 3%, unlike the production, or consumption of heavy drinks, which fell by about 12%, which further shows that this is an extremely promising production, which we have completely abandoned in the previous decades. I think this is a chance to help these people. Once again, I urge you to accept this proposal in the voting day, regardless of the government's failure to accept it, because I believe there is a valid reason for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2314	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2315	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a good, excellent amendment, which we from the Socialist Party will support. Everything that's said here is absolutely standing. Unfortunately, we had excises on domestic wines until, practically, middle of last year. This entire production is practically a colleague well said, the vineyard production, which is a prerequisite for good wine production, in a rather difficult position. The excise duty paid practically by consumers by the regulation of the previous government, as I said before the harvest itself, did not produce results. They helped that production, but not enough. I think the adoption of this amendment would be somewhat corrected by the injustice of this very important branch. My colleague is absolutely right. We used to be the country that exported wine, we produced top quality wine varieties, and now this whole production is in a very difficult position. By accepting this amendment, we'd give at least a little bit of, say, artificial breathing to domestic wine producers. Practically, our market is flooded with wines on the side, from imports, which, unfortunately, I say responsibly, are not that rank and that quality as marketing performs on our market.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2316	Mr Krasic answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2317	This amendment, as before, is a reason to point out that, practically, the Ministry of Finance, which draws this job, actually has no strategy in terms of tax and excise policy, as part of this fiscal policy. There is no strategy, because non-alcoholic beverages are released excise duties if they are domestic, and domestic wines are not released from excise duties. What the difference is - there is no government representative to explain it to us. I don't think he could explain it to us. Through this excise policy, not only should funds be provided for the Republic of Serbia's budget, but economic policy is also being conducted, so domestic production is stimulated, domestic production is protected, domestic consumers are simply affecting the country's social product. We, based on what Mr Dinkic suggested, can get a picture - anything can, only it's not domestic. If it's domestic, tax him, charge him the excise. I don't know what else to destroy in this economy. Not to bid on thousands of acres, how much wine production went down. Every year it is systematically reduced, but at the same time it is protected by wines of geographical origin from some neighbouring countries that have flooded this market. It is an opportunity for this amendment to generally say that this economic policy, which we are offered this year, is bad. An example of that is, say, what is suggested when it comes to oil, oil, oil derivatives. Is it possible that this government is proposing to delete the position set out in Article 9 of the Law, which stimulates the production of organically correct oil and oil, so if it is green label and has more than 25% of the ingredients that are organically correct, these oil and oil releases excise. As a general rule, it's been released from excise duty, so I can also sell eco-correct oils with us, because it's supposed to drive everything into legal traffic flows. You see what that is, a replacement of thesis, where the minus is made, apparently, some plus, where it's reported to citizens, tax bonds -- here, we're getting rid of it; here, we're equating; here, we're helping. It's a similar situation with cigarettes, same as with wine. No domestic production is protected, prices are freely formed. The price of cigarettes can lift whoever it wants. Secondly, in excise policy, we have somewhere that the excise duty is determined in percent, somewhere in a fixed amount, which clearly indicates the need to fully review the excise policy, because I see no difference between a liter of gasoline and a kilo of coffee, between a liter of wine and a kilo of coffee, as a unit of measure, as something to calculate the excise duty. In that sense, I mean, not in terms of quality. It's showing us different things here, talking about some effects. Obviously, the only effect that wants to be achieved by this law is to raise funds that lack budgets. It's a legitimate request from the government, and she's right to ask for it. But it all has its own volume, it has its own dimension. So that what you don't pay on the bridge doesn't happen, you don't pay on the pot. That's what's being taken care of. Whether increased consumption may be wanted to replace, through excise duties and taxes, in this nominal amount that is now, because increasing excise duties and taxes and other taxes can reduce consumption, so when consumption is reduced, it multiples the negative consequences both in the economy and in the citizens. That's what this government didn't do, but it was doing -- we're going to write how we're going to cover the budget deficit by amending this law, run to London, not be present here when it's being debated, and there's supposed to be a creditor and the IMF running to cut the budget deficit, here's the law, and no one knows if that law is going to be voted here. Besides, there's no excuse for us to work without the government's representatives here, because I'm asking who we're talking about, who needs to adopt our amendments, who needs to change the opinion he's given on some amendments? If that's what a government official should do, he's not authorized. If that's what any of the government's representatives need, they're gone. Why aren't they here? Well, they don't care about this congregation. They're obliged here every day to be, to take bills. On the occasion of each amendment, they are obliged to come out and say what they think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2318	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8th of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just now over an amendment, MP Dusan Prorokovic said the DSS cannot accept such an amendment. As far as I know, some committees are responsible for the adoption of the amendment, the legislator of the law, in this case the Government. The DSS may vote on an amendment for or against, but it is only one-fifth of the MPs in this assembly, and whether the amendment will be adopted will the MPs decide. I have submitted an amendment requesting that article 8 be deleted. In fact, it's about changing the way you fix a coffee excise. In the previous law, it was regulated that the excise duty on coffee should be fixed - 10 dinars per kilogram, and now it has been amended and it is required to be 40% of the base, which is calculated by increasing the value of the product established by customs regulations by the amount of customs duties and other import duties. When it's charged 40%, there'll be a cup of coffee. For reasons of passing this law, it is said that the purpose of the law is to further reduce the size of the grey economy. On the contrary and wrongly, this way of determining a coffee excise will only increase the gray economy in this area. Making a larger inflow of funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget is the only honest thing that is stated here and the goal is to make additional funds available in the budget. Furthermore, harmonisation and excise policy procedures with European Union standards, etc. They also don't stand, as well as the 4th or 5th points that are listed here. The promoter, the government, or Ministry of Finance, says that the effects of these proposed measures expect only from the application of this law 17.84 billion dinars, divided by the number of inhabitants in Serbia, and about 2.5 000 dinars per citizen of Serbia, which in an indirect manner and a child born this year in Serbia will be in debt to the state, the Ministry of Finance, the Government of 2.5 thousand dinars and more, and it is not wrong and is not aware of why it is due. Of course, it's circumstantial, through their parents, by paying these excises over those who are closer to them. Last week, we had criticism of the amendments submitted by the SRS, and above all, we were accused of trying to modify the amendments. To those who have made such remarks, I would suggest that they take a look at the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Payments, which the Government has proposed, and they will see that there are solutions of the type in that law -- it is stuck, point is put, one word is deleted, one word is added. When they proposed it in their amendments last week, the SRS MPs were charged with obstruction. Should those MPs who belong and support the government have in this respect a relationship with the amendments such that what the government proposes must be supported, must not be commented at all costs, and what opposition MPs propose must be criticised at all costs. The saddest thing is that the financial effects that will be achieved by this law will not be spent in the most appropriate way for the state, but will mostly go to the re-establishment of various agencies, which are essentially behind very small salaries and do almost nothing, and these have been shown by agencies established in the earlier government and here this government will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2320	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2321	This member of the bill is a logical consequence of Article 2. The bill, which regulates the basis for calculating excise duties when it comes to the issue of coffee. There has been a change, in fact, a change in the method of calculating excise duties, from a fixed amount of 10 dinars per kilogram of coffee, is proposed to go to 40% of the base, which is determined on the basis of the import price increased for customs and other customs and import duties. We don't have a precise notification of what it means in practice. Whether in nominal terms it remains 10 dinars or increases to 20 and 30 dinars per kilogram. We don't have a translation of the percentage to that fixed amount, even at present, according to the import prices that apply today. The proposal came to the conclusion that such a excise calculation could significantly increase revenues based on a coffee excise, which necessarily means that small benefits will be given to the Ministry of Finance from following the coffee balance, which has data on monthly and annual consumption, on importers and quantities, because as a boomerang something will appear the opposite. The rule is, where high excise duties and high taxes are appropriate for the gray economy. The gray economy is being fought by the state by legalizing the reduction of excise duties, taxes or even the release of excise duties and taxes. Of course, coffee is not the product that needs to be free of excise duties and taxes, but with lower fixed amounts, so if even this system of determining excise duty is applied in percentages, with a lower percentage, legal turnover of this product is certainly obtained. If someone thinks that someone who organizes prize games has enough money and thus increases traffic and positions himself on the market and that by having money he can pay a bigger excise fee, I say in advance that he is seriously wrong. In the traffic of coffee in Serbia, we have a conflict of principles. He's a principle abroad. He's not here. Everyone here works for someone from abroad. This increase and this trip called the change of excise duty at coffee will affect consumers. What will the consumer's reaction be? It's likely to increase the turnover of unroasted coffee. The next reaction, perhaps even more unquality coffee will be on our market, because it is cheaper and whoever did this job knows that citizens do not have unlimited resources, and they have a great habit of drinking coffee, and of course it all comes to the expense of the quality that is being imported. It just has to be talked about that urge, how to turn it all on the tubes overnight, to reverse that in all possible ways of providing the missing funds, and even when the Budget Law was passed and a few days ago in a debate here, from this pay phone, you could hear very precise data that the budget deficit would not be this big that by any chance the government and the competent minister went more radically into changing the organisation structure of the state. Unnecessary agencies, unnecessary directorates, unnecessary bureaus, unnecessary offices, unlike last year's budget where abnormal items were based on work contracts, intellectual services, etc. To figure out what is the depth of that failure, just to tell you that between 30-35% of all the loans we received from abroad are related to consulting services to foreign companies. We take credits and finance a foreign company to teach us how to spend credit. It's probably got something to do with the increase of the coffee excise.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2322	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, we do not have a proposing representative, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Based on the Rules of Procedure, Article 94, Section 2, I'm taking a break until 15.00 hours, when we continue our work. I am informing Members of the Health Committee that a session of the Committee will be held in the fourth floor hall. Thank you. [[After break – 15:30]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Before we begin, please determine if we have a quorum. I ask all MPs to insert their MP cards. I find that by applying the electronic system in the O.R., 126 MPs are present. Before we move to the 7th item of the agenda, we have a proposal to consider the emergency procedure. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed that, pursuant to Article 158(3), paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, following an urgent procedure on the agenda of the 8th session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, shall put an end to the duties of the Judges of the General Court and of the Special Court, the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the jurisdiction of the Judges of the Judges of the Court of Justice and of the Special Court, the Proposal for a decision to dismiss the duties of the Judges of the Judges of the General Court and of the Court of Justice and of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice, and the motion for a decision on the termination of office of the Public Prosecutor, which was submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration to the National Assembly on 7 and 13 April 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, against 13, a abstentioned one, was not voted 77, a total of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Payment Transport (Statistics) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. No amendments have been submitted to the proposal for this law. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Stop duty, RELATION OF THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS For this item of the agenda, you have received the following proposals for decisions submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee, and this is: Proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, a motion for a decision on the discharge of the court's duties as judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, a motion for a decision to dismiss the court's duties as judge of the Municipal Court in Bujanovac and a motion for a decision on the termination of office of the public prosecutor. I remind you that according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Does the proposing representative, Branislav Ristivojevic, chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word application in writing, submitted parliamentary groups of SPS and SPO-New Serbia. I give my word to MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected journalists, on the list of judges who should be resolved on this basis, there is also Mrs. Emilia Jovasevic from Cačka. I have to say, unfortunately, Mrs. Emilia Jovasevic passed away a few months ago and it's not right for her name to be found here, but when it happened, I want to say a few sentences about it. Ms. Emilia Jovasevic worked for 35 years at the Municipal Court in Cačka. What especially adorned this woman was the commitment and commitment to this job and what was almost unimaginable for her colleagues today, almost all the time she was a first-degree judge and deserved that from this pay phone, unfortunately now that she can't hear it, someone said she was an honorable man and an honorable judge. It was my duty, civil and every other, to say it here. Among the judges who also need to stop the judgeship, which is on this list, there are several people who can't use the rights that all other employees in the state administration use, so they can't use the right to choose whether or not they're going to use the completed years of life or work. Among those who are here is the District Court judge in Cačka, Mr. Milisav Colic. I want to point to one illogicality here. If, on this basis, he is relieved of the right to receive compensation of five personal incomes, five salaries. If resolved today, the procedure is impossible to appoint a new judge by the new year. By the way, it's a judge who's been head of the county court's civil department in Chačka for many years. That court and that department will go objectively into impeccableness. Otherwise, it is about the District Court, which, according to those criteria that are valued here, is the fastest court in the Republic of Serbia. This department, the civic department, has had a number of pending cases in December of zero. So I'm taking the opportunity to say that you should make sure that when one judge is resolved, there is a mechanism to place another. Otherwise, one district court or one department, as is the case here, is in a position to operate on measurable results, by criteria in a more inefficient way, without taking any blame for it. So I'd like to ask the Proposer to have that in mind. I think it's cheaper for both the state and these people, better for the whole judiciary to do this in a different way, because we're going to be in a situation that, not only in this court but in several others today, we're solving a few or a few dozen judges, and we can't choose new ones in the next few months, and then we have a real consequence which is primarily seen in reducing efficiency in these several courts, and that we have taken responsibility for it as a parliament. In the end, I would like to say, given that Mr. Colic, the judge of the County Court in Cačka, one of these people, also wanted to say that he performed his judicial post with honor. That in a time that was not easily resisted by various pressures and that he welcomed his working life in this state body in a manner that should be welcomed by anyone who decides to share justice. It is a pity that the law, which in this way forces judges to go into retirement before they fulfil both conditions, did not allow this and many other people to do judicial duty for a while, because we will have problems in these few months and we will bring a good court down on a scale of efficiency to a place that does not belong to him at all. I would pray, first of all, about the name that came here, so it's about the judge who died, I don't know what the procedure was, it was my duty to say this, to simply tell this story that affects at least twenty people on this list; it was my duty to say it here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2325	The word has a folk MP, Milorad Belic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I belong to that part of the public who thinks the situation in our judiciary is extremely bad. With the police portfolio, it seems to me that there is certainly the most despondent condition. The fact that I come from Valjev may also contribute to my position, and it is common knowledge to our Valjevs that the appointment of judges, the appointment of prosecutors, was most and crucially influenced by the former KP of the House, later the SRS MP, and finally the adviser of the former justice minister. Otherwise, the gentleman in question is also known for his anecdote. In his own time, when he was acting as vice president of the Federal Assembly, on the question of us Valjevacs -- as he manages, since there are still different circumstances, not to say that there is a different composition, he says -- nothing you worry about, there's a lot dumber than me. When it comes to justice, the public's negative attitude is also the result of poor work mainly by the prosecution, the courts, and the fact that it is some sort of strain between the prosecution and the police, that is, the judiciary in fact and irritated the good part of the public. The MPs from Valjev received a letter from one of the judges, whose name is on this list of resolution proposals, and I would not engage in whether these are justified reasons for their resolution or not, I am not a lawyer and, of course, I respect the profession, but I would like to make certain reservations as to this particular case. In this letter, the judge simply urged the Valjev MPs to consider how he would vote in favour of his claim, among other things, he also called for his own conflict with the leaders. Powers from Valjev and the Valjev region. In particular, it is about people who, as until yesterday, were in power, performed very significant functions to the members of the New Democracy and now to the Liberals. The judge in question faced a former deputy tourism minister, Mr. Djukanovic, and a famous café. The roller coasters know very well what bar it's about. It's a coffee shop called "Time", whose co-owner, by the way, is also the son of the concerned Mr. Djukic. Despite the fact that none of the relevant, no valid, no permit, no solution exists for the work of the bar in question, he works uninterrupted to this day, and that irony is a larger owner, indeed the real owner of the facility, which, by the way, is registered in a catastrus and owns a list, is saddened by the lack of electricity. Furthermore, the only solution owned by current co-owners means Mr. Djukic's son and his friend, this cafe, is a solution signed by a tourist inspector, and yet, by chance, by a member of the New Democracy or now of the Liberals. The judge concerned in this letter also calls for a highly unprofessional relationship between the Valjevska MUP, whose head is headed until yesterday, or for how long until a few days ago, was also one of the New Democracy leaders, and is now being transferred to Belgrade's gendarmes. Otherwise, for this gentleman, the former head of the MUP, we have sent, of course, to the then minister of police, the documentation that we are informing him that, in fact, the gentleman, the head of the MUP, has been convicted on two grounds, two months in prison, or one year in probation, and that he does not meet the conditions necessary to perform such a significant function. Of course, no answer has been received either, and when I speak - we, I mean the New Serbia municipal board in Valjevo, and the citizens who asked us to. It should also be said that the mention of the dad these days is very hard to deal with and Vlad's Anti-Corruption Council, as well as the Privatisation Committee, since the powerful dad owns 35% of the MILN-Pecarship Company on September 15th, and that nothing bothered him to buy that company while he was a deputy minister. Gentlemen Members of Parliament, fellow Members of Parliament are also familiar with this case, at least those on the Privatisation Committee, as well as people working in the Government at the Anti-Corruption Council. Those, even more untouchable, as these days were about godmothers, those at the top of the pyramid of power, were mostly about the press, and if you remember, it was about the gentleman, the former police minister, Dusan Mihajlovic, and the alleged companies of which he owned or co-owner, or shareholder, and I would only remind myself of those press conferences that the current finance minister, Mr Dinkic, was holding and explaining what this was about. It should be said that as part of this whole story and the fact that one of the local powers also received the permission to build a drinking water factory in Petnica, and that recently, again in a magical way, it also received a practical deed to edit the archaeological site of the Petnica Cave. I wouldn't talk about those other things that the judge calls on in this letter. But I would just like to remind you of those arms export affairs, where neither the chairman of the Jugoimport Management Board was involved, through which the arms exports took place, and who, by chance, were the chairman of the Management Board, then the minister of the republican police, and the other member was then the federal police minister. It is obvious that there should be some doubt about this process of resolution, or keep a certain reserve, however you wish, and it is not mentioned above that another judge of the municipal court, or more specifically, may have been resolved for emancipation, the judge, last year. According to the lady in question, it was just her conflict with, again, the New Democracy or the Liberals, after she put a decision on the ban on the immersion of the Valjevska Saint, which is the Valjevska Gracanica, so she made the decision and made it a forceful one, yet the whole story went the other way, and she only gave the glagworth of the gentlemen to initiate the process of her resolution. After all, when it comes to individual human fates and their struggles against the invisible or untouchable forces of the system, in principle, man, if there is no reserve, should at least be on the side of the weaker one. We won't make a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2327	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a unique search of the motions for decisions, does the proposing representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Since we have carried out a unique search on decision-making proposals, the Assembly will decide in the voting day on proposals for decisions in general. I'm setting today's voting day at 15.50 hours. We move to a decision on the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Interests in the conduct of public service functions Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Present Law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the prevention of interest in the exercise of public functions, in principle. For 140, it did not vote 79 out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that, by written means, amendments have been withdrawn by the MPs Miroslav Jankovic, Vojkan Tomic and Boris Karaičić in an article. 9, 12, 19, 20, 22, 33, 35 and 36, and Emilia Krstic and Dusan Proroković in art. 20 and 22. During the search of the draft law in particular, amendments were withdrawn by MPs Ksenija Milivojevic to Article 9; Dusan Proroković to Article 20 and Marko Krstin to Article 32. An integral part of the Bill's proposal became amendments of the People's MPs: Milan Stanimirović to Article 4; Aleksandra Radosavljevic to Article 5; Milos Aligrudić to Article 10, with correction, Articles 14, 19, 23 and 24; Jovan Todorovic and Milan Nikolic to Articles 12 and 22; Slobodan Vukovic to Article 12; Miroslav Jankovic, Vojkan Tomic and Boris Karaičić to Article 16, with correction; Željko Ivanjia to Article 17; Milorad Mirčić to the title above Articles 32 and 32; Igor Bečić to the title above Articles 33 and 33; Momir Markovic to the title above Articles 34 and 34, and to the National MP Milan Dimitrijevic to Articles 35, 36 and 37. Also, an integral part of the draft law has become the amendments of the Committee on Justice and Administration: - Amendment to the title above Articles 3 and 3; amendment proposing that in the draft law the words 'competent Committee' be replaced by 'Republic Committee' in the corresponding decline; amendment to Article 12(4); amendment to Article 18(1); amendment to the title of Chapter VI; amendment to the title above Articles 32 and 32; amendment to the title above Articles 33 and 33; amendment to Article 35(3) and amendment to Article 36(2). National MP Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment proposing a change in the name of the bill. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 130, 17 of the 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 132, it was not 13 out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. To the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 131, 14 of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Svetislav Krstic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 109, 16 of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Korac. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 126, one of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 124, three of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the title above article 3 and Article 3 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 85 against 125, it did not vote 10 out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 125, he did not vote one of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Title above Articles 4 and 4 The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 128, it did not vote 16 out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 124, three of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 126, with three abstentions, it did not vote 16 out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Title above Articles 5 and 5. The amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 124, he did not vote 21 out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Title above Articles 6 and 6. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 126, with three abstentions, it did not vote 16 out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member State 6. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 125, he did not vote one of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member State 6. The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 124, three of the 221 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Title above Articles 7 and 7. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 126, there was no vote of 20, of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Title above Articles 8 and 8. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 123, they did not vote 24 out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member8. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Milan Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 106, 17 of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Title above Article 9 and Article 9. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 125, there was no vote of 23, of the 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. To Article 9. The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Novakovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 139, v. 76, abstentioned two, they did not vote four, of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. Member9. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Nine out of 222 MPs voted for 94 against 119. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. To Article 9. The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Martic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 123, four of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 9. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 111 against 107, five of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic suggested adding a new Article 9a after article 9. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 117, 10 of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the title above article 10. and member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 120, a abstentioned one, was not voted 28 out of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 10. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 114, against 106, two of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has most votes accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Martic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 118, five of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 10. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 101, against 109, 10 of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above article 11 and article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 118, 26 of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 11 The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Knezevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 122, six out of 221 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Igor Becic has tabled an amendment proposing that article 11 be sent to a new member of 11a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, of the 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 125, there was no vote of 23, of the 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladan Vukicevic submitted to the 12th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 118, against 110, five of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has most votes accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 125, 22 of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting on a vote for the amendment that's on Article 13. submited by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 98, against 124, one of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic to Article 13. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 99, against 123, one of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Dobrica Jankovic to article 13. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 96, against 124, a abstentioned one, two of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Igor Mirovic submitted to the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 74, against 123, 25 of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic to article 14. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 95, against 125, he did not vote one of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branislav Rankic submitted to the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 76, against 127, the three abstentions, did not vote 16 out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Dunjic submitted to the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 74, against 122, 25 of the 221 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 74, against 121, 27 of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Vladimir Jovanovic to article 17. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 94, against 122, four of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 75, against 120, it did not vote 24 out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 75, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 23, out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which was submitted by MP Gordana Komic on 19th. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 25, against 193, three of the 221 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic, on Article 19. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 98, against 119, four of the 221 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic and Zeljko Tomic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 103, against 114, four of the 221 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The title above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 121, 26 of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, against 94, they did not vote four out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Masic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, 27 of the 220 MPs did not vote against 117. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 21st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 102, against 117, one of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The title above Article 22 and Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 120, two abstentions, he did not vote 21, of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The title above Article 23 and Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The title above Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 120, they did not vote 22, out of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 119, they did not vote 24 out of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The title above article 26 and article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 118, it did not vote 28 out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The title above article 27 and article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mita Avramov. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 121, they did not vote 22, out of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The title above Article 28th and Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 121, 26 of the 221 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The title above Article 29 and Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 122, 26 of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. On the title above Articles 30 and 30 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 121, 27 of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 31 and 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 74, against 120, did not vote 28 out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 98, against 122, one of the 221 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 122, six of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to the title above Articles 35 and 35. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 125, the vote was not 65, out of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 36 and 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, six of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the title above article 37th. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 123 of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law on preventing conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions, in general. For 127, a abstention one, did not vote five, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a bill on preventing conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions. We move to a decision on the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON THE REGULATION OF THE OBLIGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA ON THE BASE OF SERBIA SERBIA OBLIGATION ON THE OBLIGATION OF THE OBJECTIVES ON THE BASE OF SERBIA SERBIA FOR EDUCATION AS THE National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting the draft law on regulation of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's commitments on the basis of loans for economic development in principle. For 149, one, abstention one, did not vote 63, of the 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that during the search of the Bill's proposal, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of the MPs of the People's Parliament, Nemanje Sarovic, to the members of the 2nd and Vojislav Milajić, as member of the 5th. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 126, 20 of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 126, 18 of the 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevovic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, 17 of the 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 125, it did not vote 19 out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by national envoy Milorad Mircic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 124, 20 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft law on regulating the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of loans for economic development, as a whole. For 145, it did not vote 74 out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed a bill on regulating the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on loans for economic development. We move to a decision on the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON THE GOVERNANCE FOND Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Fund Act in principle. For 142, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 74, of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 6th Amendment was submitted by National Envoy Bojan Kekic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, v. 106, abstention four, did not vote 10, of the 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National Envoy Veroljub Arsic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 124, 21 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by National Envoy Zoran Krasic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 124, 20 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the National Envoy Igor Becic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 123, 22 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National Envoy of the Verica Radeta submitted to the 10th Amendment. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 124, 19 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National envoy Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 11th amendment. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 120, it did not vote 23, out of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by national envoy Milovan Radovanovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 123, 19 of the 216 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the National Envoy Alexander Vukic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 33, out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on amendments and additions to the Guarantee Fund in general. For 140, it did not vote 76 out of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Guarantee Fund Act. We move to a decision on the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Financial Transactions Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and details, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction tax law in principle. For 137, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 79, of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the voice on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act as a whole. For 140, it did not vote 78 out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act. We move to a decision on the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Use, COUNTRY AND VEHICLE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing Goods in principle. For 132, against 76, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9 out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, MP Dusan Prorokovic withdrew the amendments to Article 7 and Article 9, as well as that it was found that an integral part of the Bill had become the amendment of the People's MPs Milko Štimec to Article 2, Peter Jojic to Article 12 and the amendments submitted jointly by the MPs Sava Urosevic and Milutin Soldovic to Article 13. Member State 2. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan M. Jovanovic, Dragan S. Jovanovic and Jovanovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 107, against 104 abstentions, two did not vote five, out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2328	Mr. President, I think you are misreading the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because MPs, under Article 112, vote "yes", "no" or "abstained". When you add "yes", "no" and "abstained", this amendment has passed. The fact that you, in the number of those who voted, included those who did not vote, is a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure make it clear how they vote at a session of the National Assembly. Besides, that's what the MP unit is talking about, which has only three options: "yes", "no" and "abstained". That's what's coming together, and who's got most of it, that's you. Since in this case, in most cases, it was those who were "yes", and those who were "against" and "abstained", this amendment has passed. Please make the National Assembly known whether or not the amendment has passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2329	I thank Ambassador Nikolic. It's my duty to read the result as it says on the electronic unit. So, for 107, against 104 abstentions, two did not vote five, a total of 218 MPs were present. It is necessary that most of the MPs present vote in order for the amendment to be accepted. That's the explanation I got from the administrative service. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2330	Mr. President, the monitor can say Monday doesn't vote, and we vote Monday. He can't. If it says the decision is made, that the MP is taking part in the decision by voting "yes", "no" or "abstained", there is no vote "no vote". He didn't want to take part in the vote, he's not there. He was doing it, and DOS was doing it in time, so it wasn't enough for him. Because you do not determine the quorum before each vote and do not allow an MP who does not want to vote that, by taking out the card, will not be in the hall. You know, ever since the vote started, whoever took the card out of the MP's office, he's been writing that he hasn't voted. Don't teach me whether it's true or not. [[Tossing out of the O.R.: It's not true.]] Take the whole procedure one more time, and during the vote, we'll take out the cards and they'll write that we didn't vote. I want you to carry out this procedure. So you're either "yes" or "no" or "abstained". It's the only three decisions to be summed up and that's the number of people present. "He didn't vote" doesn't get into the number of people present, it's not intended for the Rules of Procedure, it's not there. There's only one of us who's "yes", "no" or "sustained." We don't have any "sustained" radicals, but you're either "for" or "against." But be it for you to be able to be abstentions, but not to be "no vote", what does that mean? Then what's "sustained" for? Who doesn't vote? The one who abstains from voting. He abstained from voting - "he didn't vote"; and you have: he abstained from voting and plus you have "did not vote". He who has not voted does not participate in the vote, does not participate in the decision-making process. We don't have to argue. Here, let's put it to a vote on whether I'm right or whether some others are right and how the Assembly decides, so be it in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2331	I thank Ambassador Nikolic. I owe you a notice. Rules of Procedure, Rule 111: "The National Assembly shall decide by the vote of the Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and this Rules of Procedure." The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia Article 80 "The National Assembly decides by majority of votes at a session attended by most of the total number of MPs, if the Constitution does not provide for a special majority." So, of those present - 218, most of the total number of MPs are needed, and we will change the Constitution together, of course. Mr. Ristivoevich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2332	Dear fellow Members of the People, with all due respect to the attitude of the distinguished colleague, Mr Nikolic, I think it is impossible to vote whether the Rules of Procedure is in force or not. So, with full respect for your position, we can't vote here whether the Rules of Procedure is valid or not. I'll only pull one parallel. You've already applied for a presidential election that will be on June 13th. What do they count out of -- from those who came, crossed over there, took a leaf, or from those who put it in the box? Of all the people who came and took a nice little leaf. The one who entered this hall, he is there, present, and not voting, that's his thing, as well as in the next presidential elections, will be a large number of people who will come, will take the ballot, but may not find themselves in the offered presidential candidates and will not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2333	Replica, Mr. Nikolic. Let me read, please, some mutual respect, to read you article 119. So we have just read Article 111 and it is said – it is voted by the Constitution and as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of Article 119(4) states: "The decision is considered to be made if it was voted by more than half of the MPs present, i.e. the Constitution provides for a majority." So more than half of those present. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2334	This member of the Rules of Procedure may mention that you are not in your own time, most of whom you have participated, have changed the Rules of Procedure, not you, of course, but I am thinking of those who are now ruling. I never speak here to ad personam, but to those who make up most. The Rules of Procedure have been amended in the meantime, so that the quorum is no longer determined before each vote. That member was valid at a time when the quorum was determined before each vote. When problems with the quorum of the ruling majority began, you then abolished the provision that the quorum was determined before each vote, and the Rules of Procedure did not comply and that provision remained for the majority of those present, and you do not establish how many are present before each vote. Since you remind me of the presidential election, I've already forgotten that possibility, and I don't want to, of course, use the Assembly's pay phone, I don't want to, you're forcing me, that's what I meant. So voters who take the ballot and participate in the vote by not rounding up anyone, canceling the ballot, are writing something pointless, in fact, abstaining from voting. He voted and he was restrained. He didn't vote for what yours is called, and you think it's funny, too, I get that, and you think it's funny. You are here trying to introduce two classes of abstention: one that have been abstentioned and one that has not voted. What does that mean? He didn't vote? I can accept that, but it's not in the MP's unit, I can, if you would -- I'm done, I know it bothers you, but I'm looking at three minutes -- we're establishing a quorum before every vote. The system is not reset. The same quorum has been here since we took out the cards and brought them back. So 15 votes is the same quorum, take out your card or not. That's why I'm telling you. Don't point me to the direct application of the Constitution, there's no such thing in the National Assembly. Everything the Constitution has defined must be elaborated by our law called the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2335	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure? In accordance with Article 97 of The Rules of Procedure, because we stick to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ristivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2336	I'm about to respond to my esteemed colleague, Mr. Nikolic. The number of people who went to the election is accounted for by the total number of voters, and that's everyone who comes, signs the ballot, takes the ballot, even throws it, rips it, rolls it, takes it home or whatever. That's the analogy I'm talking about with the vote, and also in this assembly. It's just the way things are. Don't turn this into some demagogue debate, just, you're wrong, the law is clear and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2337	There was no reason, there was doubt in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, we made it clear. There's no reason, it's not bad when we talk about the Rules of Procedure sometimes. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Nikolic has the view that it has not been clarified. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2338	First, there were two injuries to the Rules of Procedure: first, when you gave the word to Mr. Ristivojevic, even though I replicated him...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2339	No, Mr. Ristivojevic answered according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2340	No, you said Article 97. That's not according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2341	He called for article 97 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2342	What does article 97 say?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2343	He called on article 97 and I begged him to say it; that article is the wrong interpretation of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2344	What's Article 97? Then why do you ask which member you're not responding to? Article 97 is the basis for replication. No, I'm not interpreting you at all, not wrong or true. I just want to warn the president of the assembly that I've made a proposal to vote on this. That must be put to the vote, even your proposal, Mr. President, whether to vote on it or not? You can't go over my proposal to vote on something in voting day. You can't decide whether to vote or not. It is decided by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I know that you are uncomfortable. But try to frame yourself in this, because this is our law and our Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-19-0.u2345	Thank you. Therefore, Article 115: "Decision is considered to be made if it was voted by more than half of the MPs identified, i.e. the Constitution provides for a majority". I have given the People's MP Ristivojevic by Article 97, paragraph 1, that is, if the MP misreads someone's exposure. Item one, that's what I'm... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: You could not give him the word. ) He reported to the Rules of Procedure that he was misread, Article 97(1). Please, let's not talk about that sort of thing. We're continuing our work. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 115, 22 of the 212 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladan Vukicevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 107, v 99, abstention one, did not vote seven, of the 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 119, 24 of the 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Radojla Bukvic on Article 3. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 111 against 102, a abstentioned one, did not vote four, out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Vladan Vukicevic to article 5. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 107, against 105, six out of 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Vladan Vukicevic to article 6. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I conclude the vote: 110, v. 106, abstention one, was not voted by one of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Vladan Vukicevic to article 7. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 109 against 106, they did not vote four out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to article 7. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 77, against 123, 19 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladan Vukevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 110, against 108, not one of the 219 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Veroljub Stevanovic to article 8. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 126, against 85, six out of 217 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic as member of the 9th. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 92, against 118, it did not vote eight out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by the MPs Dragan M. Jovanovic, Dragan S. Jovanovic and Jovanovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 111 against 101, with two abstentions, six of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. We are deciding on the existence of general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Article 9. It's a bill of law. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the provisions of Article 9. The draft law has a feedback. In accordance with Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when the bill contains provisions envisioning a return fact, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I would like to put the motion to vote for the provisions of Article 9. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. For 124, against 94, two of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Article 9. It's a bill of law. I put the amendments to the vote submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic on 10th. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 74, against 123, 23 of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We move to a decision on the existence of general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Article 10. It's a bill of law. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the provisions of Article 10. The draft law has a feedback. In accordance with Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when the bill contains provisions envisioning a return fact, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I'm putting the motion to vote on the provisions of Article 10. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. For 125, against 94, he did not vote one of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Article 10. It's a bill of law. The 13th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Hranislav Peric. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 114, nine of the 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 109 against 102, eight of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, in general. For 126, against 75, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on Use, Sticking and Wearing Goods. We move on to a decision on the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON ACCIATIONS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in principle. For 125, v 94, of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, and before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that at the session of the Committee on Finance, the amendment to article 6 was withdrawn by MP Dusan Prorokovic. The draft law has become an integral part of the amendments of the People's MPs Dusan Prorokovic to Article 2 with the correction and to Article 4 with the correction, Milko Štimc, to Article 2 with the correction and to Article 4 and Dejan Rajčić to Article 4. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 91, against 120, it did not vote seven out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 122, nine out of 189 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 123, 20 of the 212 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not accepted this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 111 against 105, of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic and MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 119, one of the 216 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 111 against 104, two of the 217 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 122, a abstentioned one, had not voted 17, out of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 94(2), I interrupt the vote, to hold consultations, and to rest a little. We'll continue in five minutes, so 17.45 p.m. [[After break – 18,00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, since the consultations have not been completed, we will continue our work tomorrow as a voting day at 9.30 p.m., as a new session of the Assembly begins at 10.00 p.m.
