ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am Milivove Vukovic of Bogatic, a National MP of the Serbian Radical Party. Going out for this pay phone, I've been thinking about how to start this speech, so people can understand me better and understand me. Believe me, it's hard for me, because I come from a region where great folk heroes lived, who didn't even regret their life to give for Serbia. I can't help but mention Hajduk Stank, Zeku Buljubashi, Stojan Chupic, Duke of Mišic and other heroes who were admired by the whole of Europe. What is this Europe asking of us now? To drop the charges against the NATO aggressors who bombed us. I can understand them, because they were involved in a shameful aggression, so now they're trying to avoid paying war damage. But what our foreign minister's telling us, it's not close to reason. The other day, more precisely in an interview on August 13th, was another Friday, Foreign Minister Vuk Brankovic said – yes, I said well, Brankovic, because only he could say that – how we will obtain a huge loan from the world's leading countries and their affection for the lawsuits of Bosnia and Croatia against our country. What loan does the Wolf account for? Do what they promised, when we deliver Milosevic, five million dollars or maybe a loan for Sljivancan, Lazarevic and other our generals. If he's thinking about these loans, we don't need them. The Serbian people never liked threats and blackmail, and as long as these blackmails go, deliver this general, and that general, and Mladic, Karadzic, etc. Let's look at it realistically: what if we withdraw the NATO suit and then Croatia and Bosnia in The Hague get a verdict? Then grandkids and great-grandsons will curse us in the grave because they won't be able to pay off the $300 billion debt Croatia and Bosnia are looking for. The minister claims that the Hague court will drop our suit and that we will surely lose this dispute. If that's the case, then there's no need to pull it. Then at least the whole fair world will see what international relations are like in the world, that there are no laws or rights, but everything is based on force and the right to strength. That's why I don't understand why this haste to drop the lawsuit. Let's wait, let them do it themselves. I think the lawsuit was filed under the laws of this country. By the laws passed by this congregation. If these laws don't apply, then vote others, and let's say, if someone attacks us, we have no right to defend ourselves or sue. Looks like you'd be most comfortable with that. As the military deadline is now shortened, the civilian service of the army is being introduced, we have foreign "advisers" coming to Serbia-Montenegro's defence ministry, perhaps that's how it will be. How, then, with such laws, do you expect future soldiers and officers to defend the country? If their victim could be considered a possible war crime that the paradox would be complete, it would be the ones they fought against. I mean, I can figure out, he's got his own skin, but I'm asking him where's his honor and cheek? How can Giške, Belog, Lainovic and hundreds of other Serb fighters of the Serbian Guard, formed there in the Zeci stream. Was it the Wolf who was afraid of commanding responsibilities or did his bosses prepare him for The Hague? Our minister is in favour of forming a solidarity fund to compensate the victims of the war. He thus gives green light to many deceivers and mechanics. In Serbia's cities, in fact, there are frauds who promise to pay people three-and-a-half to 7,000 euros for the feared bombing. naive people, especially poor people, fall for these lies, and criminals are rich in the misery of others. It is a shameful thesis of the government's representatives, who are trying to convince the people that in the interest of future good relations with the aggressor countries, they should accept abandonment of the suit, while pointing out that giving up, as the people believe, does not prevent individuals from seeking compensation for individual claims. Whose individuals, if they're not government, are these states that have constitutional provisions to protect them? What is the power of an individual citizen in a state to withdraw a state lawsuit, leaving a citizen to sue the governments of the most powerful countries in the world? If the NATO member states are so strong that they will not comply with our country's request to compensate for the damage, what is the fate of people and individuals in the processes that would possibly be launched? There are two exchange offices in Bogatić, where a child's birth certificate and a photocopy of parents' IDs are handed over, and then they write an application and they send it to Switzerland, there is an address, recommended letters, a plane ticket; it costs 1,200 dinars. When you look at how interested people are, in a very short time, they take 500 to 600,000 dinars from citizens without responding to anyone. It's just a hoax. Can you get in the way of this? Could any of the ministers be behind it? What are the DAs doing? Are we a legal state? In the end, I would ask the Members of Parliament, if you make that shameful decision to withdraw the suit against NATO, "as soon as you go before Milos and other Serbian knights, who live in the heat of the sun"? We radicals, it is certain, we have as soon as they come before Milosh and before our people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6573	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula. Let the People's Messenger, Bogoljub Pejcic, be prepared. With an apology from the MPs, at the beginning of the session I did not read the notice of absence from the session. So, I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Aleksandar Lazarevic, Goran Jakšić, Stanisa Stevanović, Veroljub Stevanović, Miroslav Markicevic, Milorad Belic, Velimir Stanojevic, Vladan Vukicevic, Dejan Rajčić, Radic Jokovic, Dusan Mrvos, Milovan Markovic, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic (late), (before noon) Savo Urosevic and Sredoje Mihajlov. The word is Mr. George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6574	In his memories, Vladimir Jovanovic, in connection with the 1903 coup in Serbia and the shift of power, said that in all these events the people acted passively, and his congregations simply approved the final acts. During the alien and domestic despotic rule, the spirit of the initiative has been systematically suppressed within the people, so the people are used to approving the final acts and obeying the commands "up". I believe that this moment for debate on this agenda is the right moment and that the right time has been chosen, so that our congregations will no longer approve of the final acts and obey the commands "up". There have been such cases in the near and distant past. For example, there was no word on the Dayton Agreement in the Assembly either in the Federal or in the Serbian Parliament. The agreement between Butros Galli and Vladislav Jovanovic – on the establishment of the Office for the Alliance's Liaison in Belgrade, the office here can conduct investigative actions (under the agreement), as well as police - was not the subject of the debate in the Assembly. Only seven or eight people in the country knew about the agreement. The agreement envisioned that investigations could be carried out here, that ministries could be visited, that prisons could be visited, detained, that they could be heard by victims of crimes from The Hague tribunal's jurisdiction and that witnesses could also be heard. The office opened in Belgrade in 1996. The agreement, or agreement, was made through exchanges of letters, and in order not to create an international contract, because it would then have to go to the adoption and approval of the Assembly, because it must be ratified, then published in the "Official List", it can be read further. However, it is evidence that Yugoslavia was a member of the United Nations at the time. The agreement also includes a good side, as Butros Galli and his successors cannot dispute that Vladislav Jovanovic was at the time a temporary representative of Yugoslavia, or head of the UN's interim mission. Another agreement, from the near past, was not the subject of speech and talks in the Assembly, which was the Orl's Eye Operation Agreement, which was in October 1998. The state signed an agreement with NATO that it could no longer control the sky over Kosovo, of course militaryly. So neither the Serbian Parliament nor the Federal Assembly discussed the agreement, as well as the Montenegrin Assembly. The Serbian government told us it was necessary. In the federal government, they also said the agreement with NATO was necessary. That's how those who didn't have families in Kosovo, but also us who had families in Kosovo at the time, learned that the state can no longer control the sky in military terms over Kosovo. That was before Rambuje. The agreement was not signed at the Red Cross, but at the Ministry of Defence, at the General Staff, between Wesley Clark and General Perisic. That was October 15, 1998, which was published by all the presses, as well as the television diary, as news of the breaking news. And that was before Rambuje. For all of this, I believe that this is the right time for this debate, that key issues are no longer decided outside the congregation but in the Assembly. The lawsuit shouldn't be dropped. I make the following arguments, based on the facts available to us at the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary club. On 8 April 1993, the International Court of Justice in The Hague, on the occasion of a case brought by Bosnia and Herzegovina for genocide against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, provisionally and on 11 July 1996, finally found that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was a contracting party, according to the Convention on Genocide, and that, following United Nations General Assembly Resolution 47/1, of 22 September 1992, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia remained a member of the United Nations, as a contracting party, under the Statute of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The court confirmed the decision on 3 March 2003. So, when we were renewing membership in the United Nations, they asked for it to be done formally, in writing, but later in the International Court of Justice, they admitted that we were a member of the United Nations all along, although they asked for it to be formally restored by written means. As I said, the Court confirmed the decision on 3 March 2003, when it rejected Serbia-Montenegro's request for review. Namely, Judge Dimitrijevic then used arguments that we were not a member of the United Nations all along. That argument was rejected. Therefore, in this case, the Court accepted that we were a member of the United Nations, and by other charges it is logical to accept that we are a member of the United Nations. There is no more dispute in the International Court of Justice that from 22 September 1992 to 1 November 2000 we were a full member of the United Nations, as well as a contractual party, under the Statute of the Court, but also a party to the Convention on Genocide. I would ask everyone at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who in the last five years worked on this issue and who hired foreign experts until November 2000, to hear the opinions of all these foreign experts, because they were hired, were paid for their advice, to hear what they were based on and on what the Foreign Ministry is now based its views on, or what they think of the views of those experts, who delivered their opinion by November 2000. The court found that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is a party party to the Convention. However, in connection with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's lawsuit against the United States and Spain on 29 April 1999, the Court found that it was not competent because the United States and Spain put a reserve at the Convention on Genocide on 29 April 1999 on Article 9. Thus, the United States and Spain cannot be party to the proceedings before that court, because they have placed their reserves on time during the ratification of the Convention, so they have accepted that this Convention applies to others but does not apply to them. I believe that the Court would have to decide, according to the Convention, that it is competent to judge our case against: Great Britain, Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Canada, Belgium and Portugal, and then to make a decision on what attitude it takes towards those who are sued as states, and have reservations towards the Convention. According to this, Article 36(2). The Court of Justice has jurisdiction to sue Yugoslavia against Belgium and the Netherlands, Portugal and Canada. It will not be possible to prosecute Germany, France, Italy and Britain. The procedure will be suspended due to the exclusion of jurisdiction. Based on these arguments, I don't think the lawsuit should be dropped because in 1999, the sovereign state, a UN member, was bombed against the UN Charter. On the grounds that the problem is that states, which did not reserve on the convention, are now being sued and that the International Court of Justice will not be able to say that it is not in charge of them and that they cannot be sued by the party. The fact that they've accepted to be part of the team that bombed us, and now they're in a position to look at those who put the reserves, like countries that can't answer, that's a whole other question. As far as proving genocide is concerned, it will probably be very difficult. However, aid for genocide, given the evidence proposed, could be demonstrated, since radioactive bombs were used. The use of radioactive bombs and the impact on living organisms is such, especially on humans, that it is clear that they are going to be destroyed. That could be the answer, preferably, to help with genocide. Dutch Minister De Grave recently told the Dutch court when he answered, when questioned as a witness, that he did not know what kind of bombing would be, which means would be used. He confirmed it in front of a local court in Holland. He said it would be possible to discuss the military justification of the attack on RTS, if he had no idea that the attack would take place. That's what the home press reported. It should be said that some here didn't even know there was going to be an attack on RTS, so it was paid with 16 lives of employees in Television. De Grave, former Dutch Defence Minister, then said that Dutch F16 planes, right after the Nis market attack, stopped using tape bombs during the bombing, so this testimony could be valid evidence. He made that statement before the Dutch court. At the time, he was the Secretary of Defense. It is interesting that some NATO state parliaments condemned the bombing, but claimed it was morally justified. Fortunately, the Charter does not say that the legal basis is a moral justification. That's why I don't think the lawsuit should be dropped at all. And whether they will accept us in the Partnership for Peace, whether they feel uncomfortable about the lawsuit – for me is no argument. Please, we were accepted as police state on March 12th. In 2003, we became a police state. We are the only ones who have been admitted to the Council of Europe as a police state. A decision has been made on admission to the Council of Europe at the time of the most severe violation of human rights. A convention on the accession of the Council of Europe was adopted on 31 March. Let me just remind you that in the decision to establish a state of emergency, the right to freedom of information, the breaking up of the press, the right to strike has been lifted. No one in the world reacted because the right to strike was lifted. The World Press Associations have not responded to the fact that the right to inform, to disintegrate the press has been abolished. State security has been given the authority to listening past the Constitution. So we are the only member of the Council of Europe in which the secret police were able to listen without court approval. They didn't mind our society in the Council of Europe. At that time, the right to an attorney was lifted. Those who threaten the security of the state had no right to an attorney. Mussolini and Franco didn't lift the right to an attorney. ETE members had the right to defend themselves with the help of lawyers. General Mihailovic was given the right to have a legal counsel. Stepincu was given the right to counsel here. This is the only state that has ruled out the right of defence from the written documents, so it has been admitted to the Council of Europe, and no one has objected. Therefore, they won't complain so much about this lawsuit. I want to know how this moment was chosen after three and a half years, or more. How come you're thinking about withdrawing the lawsuit right now? I wonder if there's an analysis of how we can get a slow one. What did the hired experts say? What are the chances of getting it? The case has its own destiny. We need to see what the views of our experts are based on. I also welcome Mr. Svilanovic's position, which I do not see here today, but it is very important that he said the lawsuit should be discussed in the Assembly, since there was no debate in this assembly or in the competent SRJ.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6575	The word of the Messenger of the people is Bogoljub Pejcic; let the messenger of the people be prepared, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6576	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, for two days this assembly has been turned into a courtroom, where Vuk Draskovic is being tried for a delicacy of opinion. He's challenging the foreign minister to think. It reminds of the time Slobodan Milosevic, when he was the only one who had the right to think and the only one who had the right to make decisions. That's why we came to the point where we lived for 10 years in Europe's largest lager, released from the world, and even fought with the whole world. The wolf, therefore, did not decide, ladies and gentlemen. He just suggested it. And he has not challenged anyone's right to make any different arguments that the lawsuit should remain. I'm asking you, with what right do you say you shouldn't withdraw the suit if Vuko Draskovic and the SPO are contesting the right to withdraw the suit. First of all, let me ask you something else, has such a decision been made at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro? It's not. Has that decision been made on any other state bodies? It's not. Thus, until such a decision is made, everyone has the right to think and to propose. It's only when such a decision is made that it's an obligation of diplomacy to implement it. What we're talking about is not a problem of diplomacy. The problem is our international state obligations. If we really want to get in line with the richest countries of Europe and the world and have friends, then we really have to, for our economic development and not live in a poor and devastated country, to carry out our international obligations. This is where the Wolf was said to be blackmailed. A notorious lie has been told for people of short mind and short memory. Don't you remember that Wolf was arrested along with his wife in 1993 in June demonstrations and that the whole world, with the relevant statesmen, intervened to let the Wolf out of prison? Would this world, would this Europe, these relevant civil officials, with Mitteran and Jelicin at the head, intervene for a man who was hoarding on war and who founded the paramilitary units? Of course not. It is further said here that Vuk said ethnic cleansing of Albanians was done. Yes, he did. Can anyone deny the bodies of the Danube? Can anyone deny the unearthed corpses on police polygons? What did you expect the foreign minister to lie? Ladies and gentlemen, Vuk Draskovic wrote the novel "Russian Consul", translated into 12 world languages. If you have ever read at least one page of that novel, you will find in it that Serbs have been ethnically expelled from Kosovo for centuries and are ethnically cleansed. This is the biggest contribution to understanding the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija by the international community. It is also said here that crocodile tears are shed over the tragic death of our little girl Sanja Milenkovic, and I claim that in this assembly no one with greater pain received news of her tragic death but MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement, who are friends of her father, who is a member of our party and who is president of the Varvarin municipality. But Sanja, like the other victims, is not the result of the SPO policy, but of those who abuse this tragic case for this pay phone, to restore that pain to their parents. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is about NATO bombing, let's also say that the bomb was bombed and Sarajevo for three years. That's where the Serbian children were killed. Read a magazine of humanitarian law and you will see how many Serbian children were killed by Serbian bombs. Do you think that pain is less for parents who have lost children than the bombs of their countrymen? I know it's not a good-looking subject to think about. To go back to the NATO lawsuit. So we sued, but when? We sued when Milosevic came to know that he was on the UN tribunal's list, that's when we sued NATO countries. What? It is said that we are bombed without the consent of the United Nations. That is true, but it is also true that we have accepted Resolution 1244, which verified NATO aggression. You're really crazy. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6577	Please, let the speaker finish his presentation and watch your language.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6578	Finally, if all these countries are truly genocide, what are we going to do between these countries? What is the strategic interest of this country to associate with genocide states? I have to remind you, unfortunately I am many years old to have you disrupt me and to upset me – let us not forget, in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, in one minute hundreds of thousands of people were killed and slaughtered. What did the Japanese do? You can't say about the Japanese, the Samurai descendants, that they have no dignity and are not patriots. The Japanese gave their hand of reconciliation to the Americans, and made their throats a more prosperous country in the world. This is what I'm telling you because Japan in the '50s was an income per capita under that poor Yugoslavia, and where is it now, and where are we? It wasn't the Japanese who did it because they loved Americans, but they knew it was the only way and the way to provide a better life for future generations. And that's where we can learn not only how it's done, but how it's forgiven for the future generations that come. I'm glad, I'm very pleased to hear that this is about the treasonous work of Vuk Draskovic and that he is said to be a traitor. Gentlemen, Vuk Draskovic is a traitor, according to you, which led to a nine-man demonstration. Vuk Draskovic is a traitor who has opposed pointless war, violent mobilization and the taking of naked young people to foreign blood dealers, to die for some imaginary Serbia, in the head of Slobodan Milosevic. Vuk Draskovic is a traitor who opposed the bombing of Sarajevo. Vuk Draskovic was a traitor when he accepted plan Z-4. Gentlemen, if all this were so and if we had accepted that traitor's voice, today would be a different Serbia, today there would be 800,000 refugees, today Kosovo would have a completely different status. Being a traitor to such a mind, once again offering us life in a lager, a confrontation with the world, should not be a shame. It's supposed to be a compliment. I'm sorry, in the end, to tell you, whenever he lost Wolf and SPO, Serbia lost, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6579	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let the MP Nikola Novakovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6580	Ladies and gentlemen, some of my predecessors have tried to accuse the SRS that we are doing this exclusively for political purposes, because of the upcoming local elections, and they forget that this came from the current foreign minister's statement and that the SRS has reacted in this way, because I don't believe you and I believe that one of these resolutions should be passed, to vote in the Assembly, so that no one will be informed tomorrow. What's the subject of this lawsuit? The SRJ suit against NATO members includes the crime of genocide, but is not limited to that. It also includes the responsibility of NATO members to violate international obligations -- obligations that prohibit the use of force against another country, intervention in domestic affairs of another country, violation of the sovereignty of another country, obligations that protect the civilian population and civilian facilities during NATO's aggression, obligations to protect the environment, free navigation on international rivers. Then, obligations relating to fundamental human rights and freedoms, obligations to prohibit the use of prohibited weapons, obligations that prohibit the deliberate deterioration of the living conditions of the civilian population in order to challenge the physical destruction of the national group. Just remember what was bombed, so you'll see that and how we have the right to ask the International Court of Justice in The Hague to plead on this matter. The question remains why Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic and other individuals are hiding from the public the whole of the lawsuit. It can be explained why the defendants of NATO members do so, but it is difficult to explain the beating of our officials as lawyers of the defendant countries and part of the simultaneous withdrawal of all charges and charges. These are completely different things, and they need to be treated differently. Even now, NATO does not deny that by attacking the SRJ it violated the United Nations Charter. He's trying to explain it to moral and humanitarian motives. However, the thesis cannot be accepted that the SRJ has committed aggression against Croatia and BiH. The thesis is not accepted by the vast majority of the world's communities, even by the United Nations in their documents found that it was not the JNA war in BiH, so the SRJ, but rather the civil war. This is based on a report by the UN Secretary-General in BiH's special envoy from May 1992. Just to remind you, when it comes to the report, it's a report that was hidden from members of the Security Council when it was voted to impose sanctions on the SRJ. What international law you are now talking about and what right you are talking about that one's policy has caused Serbia's isolation from the SRJ and NATO's intervention. As for the compensation of war damage, it should be pointed out that this is the inalienable right of our country that does not go out of date. Secondly, today it is clear to all of us that no aid has come to us, nor will it arrive, which would make up for at least part of the damage that NATO's aggression has left. Everything we've got since the so-called. democratic changes over the past period, this is an enormous increase in external debt, creating real conditions for our country to fall into an extremely serious debt crisis in a few years. If, when and how responsible for the enormous war damage will pay for it, it is not a reason to give up the demands. It's a request on behalf of the state and the people, not on behalf of one set of authorities, especially any individual. It is a shameful thesis of a representative of the authorities who are trying to convince the people that, in the interest of future good relations with the aggressor countries, they accept abandonment of the lawsuit, while pointing out that giving up, as they assure the people, does not prevent individuals from seeking individual lawsuits to compensate for their damages. Whose individuals, if they are not citizens of this state, have a constitutional obligation to protect them. What is the power of an individual citizen in a state to withdraw a state lawsuit, leaving an individual citizen to sue the governments of the most powerful countries in the world. If NATO member states are so strong that they will not meet our country's request for compensation, what is the fate of individuals in the processes that would possibly be launched. What, apart from the statements by Vuk Draskovic, leads us to give this resolution to the Assembly for discussion and adoption? We have been cited by your political actions since October 5th, since you came to power. The first violation of the constitution since your coming to power was made by Vojislav Kostunica, who had just sworn on the Constitution of the SRJ, who violated it by demanding that the SRJ be admitted to the UN membership, contrary to the 1992 requirement, where continuity with the SFRY was sought. One such reckless, political, dilettane action gives us some kind of legal basis for being sued by Croatia and BiH for war damage. Since coming to power, you have denied the position that the former member states of the SFRY have made secession, you have already declared the secession a succession and shared the SRJ's gold reserves with other SFRJ members. You confessed to a debt that no one could attribute to us, worth three billion dollars, even though you gave up continuity. The recognition of this debt was made by Miroljub Labus, who later ran around the world, in front of the London and Paris Club, in front of the IMF, and told us that they had written off interest on a debt we didn't even have to accept. That was your policy. That's what you did in the international community. Now let's take a look at what you've been doing here. Vojislav Kostunica wrote about Fjore Brovina, annulling the verdicts against NATO leaders, and repealing the judicial tribunals against Albanian terrorists. Somewhere between 1,300 and 1,600 is released by order of Vladan Batic and others from DOS. The Supreme Court annulled those verdicts by declaring a material breach of criminal proceedings, with an explanation, in front of this Assembly, you were still a unique DOS, that this release does not mean that they will not continue the trial against them. Now, I'm asking you, have the courts in charge tried to give at least one single call from the ones you released? Did it occur to you that maybe one of those 1,300 shot at Gorazdevec on those kids? How many of those 1,300 took part in the burning of Serbian houses on March 17th, in the killing of Serbs, in the exorcising of Serbs? You bear the moral and political responsibility that these people are free. I know, Mr. Matice, you don't know. You released a group of Shipatarian terrorists, who opened the first crematorium in the Balkans since World War II, and even publicly admitted that they raped a nine-year-old girl and her mother, killed them, and then burned them in that crematorium, just because they were Serbs. These are your works you've been doing since the arrival of October 5th to power, so here we go. What are your political answers to everything that's been going on? The ones you claim to be your friends and that your friends don't need to be sued, I ask you, are your friends bombing you? Do they kill your children? Do they destroy your bridges? Are your refineries on fire? Do they destroy chemical industrial plants to pollute human and human environments? Do they bomb you with radioactive grenades? There's still an atomic bomb missing, as someone here said. What's your answer to that? Your answer is that some of your leaders have been kissing their hands, and I'm specifically thinking about Madeline Albright. I don't believe that hand can wash all the water in this world. What was your answer to the bombing TV? To the bombing of Television your answer was the arrest of Milanovic and the spread of the red carpet Solana, which ordered this bombing. What is your answer to those who defended Serbia during the aggression? There is still debate whether four Serbian generals who participated in Kosovo should be delivered. Just to remind you, any such delivery gives any legal background to what's been going on here. The legal background, because NATO is trying to protect itself with a war crimes court by judging the political summit of the state, the military summit of the state, even if it is necessary for soldiers on the ground, only to justify themselves in this aggression, with everything that has happened in the past ten years while Milosevic has been in power. That's why this resolution should be adopted, not declaratively, to declare that The Hague, for example, is the ninth hole on the playing field, and then not six months after that, we start delivering our citizens. Not that we are declaring that this lawsuit should not be withdrawn, but that it should be voted against any individual to do so on behalf of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6581	Replica, MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6582	Just to get rid of one thing. While SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica never freed anyone from criminal responsibilities and those who were prosecuted from prison. That's right. How this matter will be politically used around certain acts of the release of prisoners and how they were found in this, rather than in the status of criminal proceedings, that is a very different question. Therefore, we must take care of what we say here. Otherwise, about all the other things, in the second part of my predecessor's exposure, I have no grudges. Veroljub Arsic is asking for a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6583	On what grounds? It's not a replica, say a member of the Rules of Procedure. He claims to be misread Then what? [[Milos Aligrudic: There is no right to replication.]] (Veroljub Arsic: MPs are obliged to speak the truth about this speaker. You'll be entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6584	I don't have the right to reply, I have the right to report to the Rules of Procedure, because the speaker before me did not speak the truth, and he owes it to the Rules of Procedure. What prisoners are you talking about? They're prisoners when one state is at war with another, and terrorists are criminals, who belong in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6585	The word has the People's MP Nikola Novakovic, and let MP Jovan Todorovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6586	Dear Presidency, ladies of the People's Parliament and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I became a member of the political party G17 plus and entered this assembly with a lot of hope that our password -- the waist is politics, yet somehow to reach small gray cells, to go that way and start doing very, very serious things. With strict adherence, and with all due respect to the definition of policy, which is now widely accepted in the world, which is that politics is a process in which different views and conflicting interests agree with each other, with a lot of faith I thought that other MPs also knew about this definition. I'm amazed at the discussions in the last three days, because I realized that the definition of politics is still in effect from the end of the 18th century, that politics is a systematic organization of hate. Maybe hate is too much of a word, but here we listen to division policy all the time. I think today is the highlight of such divisions, and we're not talking about patriots and traitors, it's something that's common, looking at all possible things black or white, and that's also extremely wrong. Today, however, one of the debaters and speakers even divided the world into an honest and dishonest world. That's way out of line, though. I'm just wondering why you're emptying your life, who gave who here the exclusive to the bombing? Didn't we all go through that goal? Through a googoth that is directly caused by a completely exclusive, of course, but arrogant, Indian and autistic policies, led in the ninth decade of the 20th century. That's the problem. As a lawyer, as regards the legal act and my opinion of the resolution itself, I would not have burdened you much with that, because my colleague Mamula was extremely truthful in telling the whole essence of this legal problem, and yesterday, who listened very carefully, he could hear a fellow Christian, who also saw it in another way. So the procedural action of withdrawing the lawsuit is the simplest process action and that's no problem. It's a big question, when anyone decides on that process shop. Personally, I don't think it's in any case that today's the time to even talk about withdrawing or not withdrawing a lawsuit. In doing so, I'm indignantly rejecting any possibility that withdrawing the suit could be conditional or unconditional. The lawsuit is withdrawn or not withdrawn. It's not time to drop the charges. That's a fact. I am sorry that the resolution, before it was included in the agenda, was not the subject of reviewing the Legislative Committee, for one simple reason, it is legally impossible. It's directly anti-constitutional. The resolution, in this text as proposed, cannot regulate this matter because it aims to achieve an individual legal act - therefore, to achieve an individual objective. It is not regulated by resolutions, it is regulated by other legal acts. Finally, I'll remind you once again, politics is a process where different views and conflicting interests agree with each other; black and white are not the only colors. Let's start to agree, let's get these conflicting interests and different views, in front of the public of Serbia's citizens, try to get closer, to agree on the most significant steps that follow us in these difficult moments, and they are difficult and will be even more difficult after ten years of exclusive policy. To eliminate the consequences, it will take much more power and will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6587	The People's MP Jovan Todorovic has the word, and let the MP Bosko Ristic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6588	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, much has been said in the last two days in this debate. However, let me express my dissatisfaction or my surprise with the approach of some MPs, who would like to justify what is justified. The story is that the previous regime of Slobodan Milosevic and the previous government are the cause of NATO aggression simply does not stand. Those who talk about it have no good intentions or simply forget the facts. Mr. Mamula has just said a few facts that suggest that this previous government had a desire and a reason to negotiate with the so-called so-called. NATO's alliance, making some concessions that, at that point, were not acceptable, but still proved to be for the NATO Alliance, America, for this Europe, which has been acting as a friar throughout the story, there were no other reasons than the need to show its strength and strength, and to commit aggression to the country of Serbia. There's no doubt about it. That's why I'm surprised by colleagues who don't talk about it that way, who don't call this act the strongest countries in the world their real name, they don't call it aggression. All the rules, all the legal, moral norms, have violated NATO's very act of aggression, even its statute. The constitutions violated the NATO member states when they entered the story silently with the United States to show who was who, to show force. In doing so, they have committed such crimes that the public in these countries today is ashamed of these facts. We'd like to justify something that was then called "Peaceful Angel" action. Gentlemen, the devil was an angel too until he turned away from God. It was this NATO alliance that was deaf and not at the invitations of Patriarch, Pope, not to bomb Serbia, the Serb people and the Serb enemy at Easter, on the greatest Christian holiday. That's what happened after all. Today, some would justify something that only a crime can be called and that only its satisfaction can be found before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Today, we have NATO legal representatives in the image of Professor Stojanovic, who should be the legal representative of our government, our foreign ministry. We have a man who behaves as a NATO spokesman at the post of foreign minister. I am also from Loznica the first association to mention the name Vuk is an association of the greats of the Serb people Vuk Karadzic. When we talk about it today, in this assembly, I have another association at Vuk Brankovic, including Vuk Draskovic. By thinking that this Vuk Draskovic has a rabbit's heart and that he would do anything, even what is not asked of him, just to keep himself, at least, from something like that. Who gives Vuk Draskovic the right to speak for himself and Minister of Foreign Affairs? What act, what law, what constitution? He is not the president of Serbia's Renewal Porquet, even if he did, he is representing and leading the foreign policy of the Serbia-Montenegro state union. He has no rights, not as a man, not as a politician, especially as a minister, to step up on his own behalf. You could, but on your own account. It should not come to the expense of the citizens of Serbia and of all those who are the victim of NATO aggression. This question isn't just political. We can talk about this today in different ways, from our political points of view, counting on the programs and policies of our parties. That question is legal, but above all, it's an economic issue. Who today has the right to consider forgiving the war damage of $100 billion? In which I remind you, fellow MPs, that the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004 is just over seven billion dollars, that 100 billion dollars means the 15-year budget of the Republic of Serbia at this level. I remind you of your colleagues who would like to say the following – we will not withdraw the suit, but we will not withdraw the resolution – that the finance minister is preparing the draft budget rebalances and the reduction of individual expenditures in the budget these days. That's what it says about where we are. But he's also talking about that we can't at all and we can't give up that right of ours -- that those who have destroyed this country are making up for it. Generations created bridges in Novi Sad, refineries, roads, etc. Those who would say -- yes, the NATO Alliance tried to prevent a humanitarian disaster, must answer the question of how the Novosadians affected the fact that the Shiparis in Kosovo and Metohija were threatened, even if they were, which is what the bridges in Novi Sad, the Pancheva Refinery, hospitals across Serbia, which were far 500km from Pristina, were a factor that threatened, in a humanitarian sense, the Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija. Who can confirm that here today? Who can amnesty from NATO's responsibility? I was a parent who had a son in the military at the time of NATO aggression. I was proud of it. Then Vuk Draskovic said something that didn't stop, which was a lie. When the federal government declared war, it was through the Radio "Free Europe" that the peasants who had two pigs would be left without one pig, those who had four sheep, were left without two etc. It's as if he forgot that the Serbian people have a sense and a need to help defend freedom -- whoever fought for that freedom. Not one of you is going to tell me today that Serbia was not at risk of freedom at the time, that during NATO aggression and under NATO bombs were free people. You're twisting the thesis today, you're saying that it's all because of Slobodan Milosevic. You know it isn't, but you have pathological hatred for Slobodan Milosevic, although you forget that Slobodan Milosevic was elected by Serbia in the democratic elections. She also chose Vuk, but Vuk was never the president, because he could never get as many votes as Slobodan Milosevic got. So there's the point. If America wanted to change Slobodan Milosevic, it didn't have to make NATO aggressive. I guess that's clear. Today, there are also adversaries here that we should withdraw the suit against NATO, and that we will approve of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia to withdraw their lawsuits against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, that is, Serbia-Montenegro. What does it have to do with these two things? Nothing at all. Proponents of such ideas would like to trade something for nothing, to compensate for 100 billion dollars, which are objectively belonging to us, at some time, for something that has not happened on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia in the form that is present in the lawsuits of those countries against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or Serbia-Montenegro, if you prefer. I remind you, which you are reacting to, that at the time of JNA's presence there was an SFRY, that JNA was disputing two dissent parties, and that, at the moment the international community unwarrantedly recognised the independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, JNA withdrew from the territory of those countries and could not possibly have been an aggressor. During the war conflicts, while the JNA was there, it could not possibly have been an aggressor, for it defended peace in the country of that JNA. There were Serbs, Muslims, and Slovenians, and Croats, and everyone else. So that's what this is about. We can't change the thesis. We must not show our condescendingness, our subjection to that West in this way in the National Assembly, because that is how we destroy, if you will, and insult the dignity of the Serb people, who gave us votes in these elections, no matter what political options we belong to. We have to preserve some dignity. Finally, let me ask you all: does anyone know the positive effects of this story? Word is we're going to enter the Partnership for Peace. I assure you it will cost seven billion dollars, which is exactly one annual budget of the Republic of Serbia. What are we going to get for our Partnership for Peace? Nobody's told us that yet. It is said that our long-term goal is to join NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, it costs $70 billion, which is ten-year budgets of the Republic of Serbia, which brings us nothing but the possibility that as a member of NATO we will be in a situation to listen again, and also to be aggressors in some countries, such as Iraq, Afghanistan, etc., all for implementing some policy dictated by the United States. All wars in the 20th century, except for World War I and World War II, were caused by Americans. Today, people appear here that this American pelzer is transplanted into the Serbian head, that this American pelzer transplants into the state of Serbia. That's not gonna work! (President: Time's up. That is why it is important for this republican congregation to show its dignity, to adopt this resolution, and to prevent the Wolf from eating Redcap. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6589	Replica, please, deputy president of the SP-NS parliamentary group, Slobodan Zivkucin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6590	From the previous discussion, we all had to conclude that by comparing Vuk Draskovic with Vuk Brankovic, in fact, Vuk Draskovic was a traitor, although with little, not much, knowledge of history, he was clearly not a traitor. I suppose we should conclude from the previous discussion that one of us here tried to justify and defend NATO's aggression against Serbia, although it is false. To these and similar stories we are used to, we here in Serbia, especially Vuk Draskovic and the Serbian Renewal Movement. This is just about being insulted by Vuk Draskovic and SPO, so that it would be nothing tragic if it hadn't been for the attempt to kill Vuk Draskovic, if both associates and friends of Vuk Draskovic had not been killed and persecuted by many in Serbia during the rule of Slobodan Milosevic and his regime. From this discussion, we also heard that Milosevic was not guilty of what happened to us from 1990 to 2000, so we could logically conclude that he was responsible. The SPO says, "Yes, Slobodan Milosevic is responsible for everything that happened to us from 1990 to 2000." Because he bears all these merits, that's why he lived in 2000, and that's why he should answer, not where he sits and answers now, but here, in Serbia, to answer in front of his own people, in front of his own nation, for everything he deserves and what he did to his own nation. Let's stop talking like this and tell stories like this. Let's stop distracting the people, deceive the citizens. Let's call ourselves, for once, brains. Let's stop pushing Serbia into a dark villa. Let's offer Serbia something healthy, something useful, to finally get Serbia out of all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6591	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6592	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Messengers, when a man steps into a break-in, falls until he is broken. By listening to previous speakers, I could conclude that the epic songs of Precosian, Kosovo and post-Kosovo cycles should be changed somewhere, we should find the remains of Vuk Karadzic and Gete and tell them that they were wrong, that we are now writing what happened to us many centuries ago. That's what the political party's representatives have been telling us for 14 years. I'll give you some consistency here. That's what the editor of "Serbian Words" tells us, I see he's not in the hall now, which 12 years ago, on the front page of the Serbian Renewal Billene, "Serbian Words", published a mounted photograph of his sacredity as a patriarch of Serbian Mr. Paul with an automatic, with a "rolex" on his left hand, as a sign that he's a murderer and as a sign that he's a silver lover. To accuse the first among the equals, his sanctity, which has no property, such as no monk, of silver-loving and, at the moment he supported Serbs in the fight for survival, to accuse him of being a murderer and carrying a weapon, it was then only the Serbian Renewal Movement. As much as you resist, no one is allowed to drop the charges. You'd better stop your president from making statements. He, a few days ago, repeated a statement made during the aggression, which has done us much harm. In a direct phone interview for an American agency he said – do you realize that this is a war of Christians against Islam, help us now, otherwise Christianity will not be. Who says Islam and Christianity have waged war and war in the territory of Serbia or Kosovo and Metohija? A few days ago, he mentioned the threat of Christianity in Serbia, to God, from Islam. Don't fight us with great world religions. Everyone has the right to confess their god. As you raised your voice against the burning of churches, we raised our voice against the burning of every sanctity, against persecuting each one on any basis. There must be a consensus on consistency in Serbia. What we don't want others to do to us, we don't want to do to others. But your defetism first, and then direct calls to desertion, has been going on for 13 years, since the struggle of Serbs to finally have, in any form, a Serbian state. Yes, it's Slobodan Milosevic's fault. But what about the people? What were the kids killed? In 1996, according to US officials, was this Milosevic a factor of peace in the Balkans? In 1996 was there a man to talk to? So she forgave him America until 1996. Don't mention it to him as a sin anymore, you from the Serbian Renewal Movement. Because you have to repeat everything America says. America doesn't mind Milosevic until 1996. She told him the peace factor, invited him to Dayton, honored him there. If they resent him in Kosovo and Metohija, let's see what. But don't mention to him either the Republic of Serbia or the Republic of Serbia anymore. That's what America praised him for. So there's a historical thing about the attitude of America towards Slobodan Milosevic, so put it in your statute. Don't step on the statutes. Don't use the program to go against your mentor. I'm not for us to fight with the whole world, but we're not even going to serve the whole world. I've watched you serve the whole world for four years. Tell me what we got. If you had succeeded in that service, our policy would not have had the opportunity to be the strongest policy in the country. Those of the SPS would not be in parliament if you were able to achieve Serbia's economic development by serving. It was the citizens' motive in 2000. They knew that most of you were traitors, but they voted with a story that they would live better immediately. Now that they don't live better, where are you going now? It would be correct of all those who are against withdrawing charges to say that about this pay phone. I congratulate you on your consistency here. You have the courage to say what you're ashamed of, and those others you're ashamed of. Tell me who you are against this. How can we not agree on that? We're all against a lawsuit, and we can't agree to write a text in two sentences. There's no dropping the lawsuit and that's it. And we'll accept that. Don't make up any more reasons. Today, who doesn't vote for the resolution, if we don't agree, then for a text like this, it's not my fault that you don't want to change this text, he knows where it belongs. It belongs to him among those who want a lawsuit dropped. Clean stuff. Here you vote for or against: you are either in favour of withdrawing the suit or you are in favour of keeping Serbia in the position that it has been sued because it has been inflicted on her enormous damage. As far as we're concerned, the debate is ongoing. That's how you agreed. We're not changing anything. There's a debate going on. But the attitudes are very clear. We can vote now if you want. We did everything to get to this point, we did something we didn't do before, but we welcomed this point. You told us it was the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. Today we are also writing a motion for a resolution for the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly, to see how it will plead there. Things are perfectly clear here. By talking about what happened 12 years ago, you can't justify the stand to drop the lawsuit. We can talk history here. I'm a participant in that history. You'll say one thing and I'll say the other. I'll tell you when you took the army off the truck when it was supposed to defend the country. But this is about whether or not we can stay on the case. That's all. Is it up to your president to keep us on the case or not? He can't. He can't. That's the point. He can't, and don't brag much about being flown by foreign statesmen on a plane to France when he got out of the hospital, because he's been examined there in detail, and you know what's been established by simple blood tests. But I don't understand normal people who represent that idea. I'm asking Ambassador Stevanović, where is he. The first day he said he shouldn't drop the lawsuit. Did you shut him out of the SPO? Or maybe someone influenced you on your first night to change your mind? In the morning you came as completely different people. Who affected you in the afternoon, in the evening class? The foreign minister was not allowed to make that statement. You're aware of that. The statement sparked this debate, three days of assembly session over one pointless, insane statement. (A voice from the O.R.: And the resolution? Of course he's ambushed because of our resolution. We have the right under the Constitution to submit a motion for a resolution, and the minister has no right to make such a statement. That's the difference. Perhaps the ruling coalition must not say how much damage the minister has done. If I were Prime Minister, after such a statement by the minister, you wouldn't be in the government, even if you had a new election the next day. And now you're blackmailing this government. The government must not fall, although our minister speaks all kinds of nonsense, the government must not fall, although Velimir Ilic is harassing police on roads across Serbia, the government must not fall and the Kabadiahs can do whatever they want. Just so you know, after the next election, we will decide how to live in Serbia. We will have enough seats for Serbia not to be decided by parties with 100,000 votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6593	Replica, MP Bogoljub Pejcic. Then, Goran Paunovic, Milos Aligrudic and Slobodan Zivkucin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6594	I'm glad my friend Toma Nikolic remembers that photograph, but he didn't say how that photo came about. Their bishop Filaret traveled back then, with the skull of a dead boy, and with a machine gun over his shoulders and the monks' bullets. Is that like a priestly face and a bishop? And let me tell you, let me remind you, the difference between a Catholic church and an Orthodox is that our patriarch is not an emissary of God, like a pope. Our patriarch is only the first among believers and is not subject to any immunity from earthly criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6595	The word is made by MP Goran Paunovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's Mr. Nikolic's third day has the opportunity to speak on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group about the years in which this country has been most tempted since World War II. It's absurd, it's just amazing, that a man doesn't believe. It should have the courage to go before the citizens of Serbia, before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as leader of the party, which has been the greatest war-whipped since the end of World War II. Is there any face, is there any courage at all, but there seems to be, to appear after this pay phone and tell the citizens of Serbia about everything they have done to this country and the troubled citizens of Serbia in the previous decade? What is the motive of this debate? The motive of this debate is -- let's do a little bit of collecting points with the citizens of Serbia, to collect some points for the elections that await us in September, to try to fix some percentage, by reminding them of what was happening to us at the time of the bombing, which Mr Nikolic and his party had just caused with their stupid, indian, space with unmistakable behavior, which had not led to anything but to the greatest evil that this country could have survived in the previous period. It is not only Slobodan Milosevic's fault for what was happening to us, perhaps more dangerous than him was the Serbian Radical Party and their leaders, who were hoarding citizens of Serbia, unfortunately uninformed citizens of Serbia, throughout the world. We have the opportunity today to listen to Serbia go through the most suffering and today after five years, here, the only Serbian Radical Party thinks about these sufferings and wants to replace these sufferings for the citizens of Serbia. We've been telling these people for 15 years to stop, that it's gonna come back on our heads, that they can't head through the wall. We hear all kinds of stories, that all the genocide peoples live around us, that everyone around us is crazy, that we're the only ones who are smart. I think that after so many years and so many accidents they've brought to their people, no one believes them anymore. I'm gonna say one more thing about motive. Resolution, imposed topic, imposed on the subject of the Serbian Radical Party exclusively for pre-election purposes. I think it is clear to all the MPs, but we will repeat it a hundred times if it is necessary for this speaker, so that it is clear to all citizens of Serbia. This is a subject so painful that everyone normal in this country doesn't even want to remember it. But some here want a political point more, they want to get some percentage more in the election, just because they're going to dig again for the deaths of their own people. Mentioning the names of the victims, mentioning the tragedy today after five years, in the way Serbian Radical Party MPs do, does not really honor any serious politician in this country. Let's try to get our own country back into order of normal countries, try to be part of the normal world, and that's the only way we'll do it if you shut your ears when you listen to the Serbian Radical Party's MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6597	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6598	I only have intervention in that part concerning the thesis, freely paraphrased – who is not with us is against us. We've had two days of discussion on this subject. In that debate, we highlighted the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia. We were talking about the essence of the matter, that is, the matter of withdrawing the lawsuit. We said we didn't want to drop the charges. When we talk about this subject, we're talking about the aspect of dry rationality. It's not good for the state to drop that lawsuit. I'm sorry we're even discussing this. I am sorry that this has happened in the first place, because it is a matter of withdrawing and not withdrawing a lawsuit in this process which is being conducted by a tactical issue, which is not even good to open publicly in its individual segments. Here, on a thin, long and wide and thick basis, there is a legal argument that should serve as a basis for the conduct of the dispute, it is not good. Whoever caused it, not to go back on that subject again, didn't do it well. Whoever continues in that debate doesn't do it well either. But what is it, there it is. The proposal was submitted, the debate is under way, and, when the debate is under way, our opinion was that the Serbian Parliament had the right to take a stand on the matter. The proposal submitted for us was not acceptable because it contests the jurisdiction of the federal state within the meaning of Article 19. Constitutional statutes. That's why we couldn't even vote for the proposed text of the resolution. We have tried in this past two or three days, as a parliamentary group, to reach an agreement at least on something, which is to make one text, to take one position that will reflect the common position of most parliamentary groups in the republican parliament on this issue, because what we have heard in the discussions so far is not what the common denominator represents, nor is it the essence of this debate. The point was, therefore, to withdraw or not withdraw the complaint. That is what most of the Messengers of the people agreed on. It is a pity that in the end we do not have a vote on the issue, which would include the vote of all those parliamentary groups who think so. If we don't have it, what are we voting for? Any compromise to be reached here, it is a compromise, it makes sense that if all those who are here advocated for non-restraint, they sign it or vote for it, and everything else is just a vote. I publicly told the Democratic Party of Serbia's position that we will not vote on such issues and that this assembly is not good in this way, on such an important issue, to turn into something that looks like a circus, which was seen here five or six years ago. And, in general, replicas, discussions, everything that appears here, where the old "war axes" are unearthed, that's not good. We've been going here for the past five or six months to achieve a different kind of atmosphere, not to go to this kind of discussion. Therefore, please, logic - who is not for us is against us, who does not adopt this document, who does not come into battle against Kosovo, who is faith and who is faithless - does not stand here. We just need to see if we're okay with one thing here. The result of this agreement can be the vote of one act in parliament, and it doesn't have to, it doesn't matter. We can't blackmail each other on this occasion. What's important here is what's heard, what's said here, and what's important is what the political party has committed itself to. And that's the opinion of the Assembly. And that's something that the federal authorities have to take care of, if they ever get that topic on the agenda, and I hope that this way, and as it's put out in public, they won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6599	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Slobodan Zivkucin, an authorised representative of the Serbian Renewal Movement Group – New Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6600	Today is not about the resolution we are talking about, as Mr Tomislav Nikolic said, because of a pointless and insane statement by the foreign minister. No, we are talking about this resolution today because of the senseless and insane policies of Slobodan Milosevic and his regime, and because this senseless and insane policy of Slobodan Milosevic and his regime is supported, also by the senseless and insane policies of the Serbian Radical Party, so this is only one in a series of tragic and sad consequences of these pointless and insane policies. It's also said here who can vote. Who's the one who can pop out and vote against the resolution? I believe it's been a long time since we've been a hero over the backs of our own people and our own country. Let's get rid of this heroism, so that every one of us or your heroism here can feel the people on his back. Stop it, finally, with that. Finally, I must disappoint Mr. Nikolic, nothing has changed since last night until this morning. We from the SPO are still of the opinion and political stance that this resolution should not be accepted, that the suit should be dropped. We are loud and clear, Serbian, yesterday and yesterday saying, today we repeat it, it is understandable to anyone who wants to understand. Whoever doesn't understand or who isn't able to understand will never understand. So, I must disappoint you, don't put such a burden on us, that we've excluded someone from the party or that we've changed our political stance. So much for that. Finally, we no longer have the right to spread empty political demagogy here, pushing Serbia into a dark villa in which, unfortunately, it has been for so many years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6601	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6602	Nothing like three on one. We're used to working on it. Don't, sir, recommend that the citizens of Serbia shut their ears. Shut our mouths. We're used to it. You're wrong, it's not true. I will tell you how you insulted Serbian citizens, but it is not true that we could create a general opinion in Serbia, what should be done. We were completely blocked on all the media. The release began in 1996, during a campaign for federal elections for the SRJ Assembly. It was only then that we were able to get into the media. By then, you will find it in our books, you have only a few statements from newspapers and some small show on small private radio stations in Serbia. We weren't anywhere in the media, and we couldn't create a general opinion. It's an insult to the citizens of Serbia, you should come out and apologize. From this pay phone, you said the radicals were hoarding the people. Only a dog can be tickled with something. Speak to the people; the people accept you or do not accept you; the people are not afraid. It's left for those who train animals. Only then did we say what the people said. Then we just did what the people did. The same convictions against fighting for Serbia's freedom were then, but they were in the minority, as they are now. The SPO voice was also heard in 1991, both 1992 and 1993, and 1994, each year until their entry into the federal government, but it was not a dominant position in Serbia, it was not what Serbs wanted to accept, as they cannot accept it now. It's pointless to insist on it, in one position, instead of just feeling it. It is pointless to insist here on an attitude that Serbian citizens will not accept. Ask your secretaries how many citizens are calling and asking - what is it doing in the Assembly, is it possible that someone wants to drop the suit? For the insult of His Holiness, I didn't get a good explanation. First of all, Bishop Filaret is not ours, he's the bishop of the Serbian Orthodox Church, he's not chosen by the SRS, he's the Holy Synod, and at the time when you say he went to the battlefields, he wasn't a bishop at all, he was a monk. You made a mockery of his holiness. Let me tell you something, many priests in Republika Srpska, including the bishop of Tuzlani Vasilija, but this has been well known from Serbia's history, participated in the defence of Serbia. When did the priests pass the people? Do you have one example, except for those who supported the 1991 SPO list? Where are those priests now? Do they support you now? Where are those bishops you were taking to the rallys against Slobodan Milosevic now? Where are the nuns who went to the political arenas now to show how the church is against Slobodan Milosevic? Now each and every one of them is a disgrace to what he's been doing with you. I'm here as a representative of a party that was never a church favorite, because we honestly told her what was wrong with her and what was wrong with her, but we never insulted her, we never humiliated her, we never interfered in her business, we never went through the Serbian Orthodox Church, and we never left the church, and you, blasphemers, you paint a patriarch with a rollers gold on her arm -- you stole a patriarch on the battlefield, and you paint him with a machine -- you kill a patriarch on the battlefield. Now you have the courage to go out for a pay phone and talk about anything. Yes, there are crazy statements, but they're only made by lunatics. You know that well. When I said "mad," I thought he gave up a lunatic, I'd say pointless or something, I used that word on purpose. You can use that word for me, too, and I accept right now that your president and I are going to do all kinds of research and research.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6603	The word is Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6604	Yesterday I told Mr. Zivkucin, who is here past the Rules of Procedure, because at the beginning of this debate it was clear that he was the head of the parliamentary club and the authorised representative, Mr. Stevanovic. Yesterday we got a new boss, i.e. After yesterday's debate and intro front of the MP's club. Of course, it is obvious that whoever caused this debate was not satisfied and ordered the change of the head of the parliamentary club and the authorised representative, and that speaks enough of the party that caused this debate. The point here isn't what caused the bombing. The point here is if someone committed an aggression, if anyone was killing. According to your logic, he'll fall out, he got into a bar fight, and he killed the guy, and he said he did, but he did it. Do you want to legalize the right to kill, the right to destroy and destroy a country and a nation? That's the point here. Do you want to legalize private policy in the state of Serbia? The state of Serbia is an integral part of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. You took part in it and wrote the Constitutional Charter. We were against it. It clearly states, in the Constitutional Charter, that the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is composed of the state of Serbia and the state of Montenegro. The state of Serbia is this assembly. It is obvious that more than three-quarters of MPs feel they should not withdraw the suit before the International Court of Justice. Is it then the private policy of Vuk Draskovic, a personal policy, not a state policy? In every country in the world, when the foreign minister leads private policy in front of the international public, the moment would be replaced. Only with us, because of our mutual conditioning, can one minister lead a private policy, that the entire assembly, except for you twenty, and not twenty, seems ten, thinks he's right and he's still sitting, and that you're distracting us here and you're dealing with some ten-year-old policy, crazy. Thus, when you say that, you insult two million people who voted for that policy and insulted hundreds of MPs who received the trust of Serbian citizens, and we only insult one man and only to him say it was a crazy statement, which he gave a month ago and repeated on several occasions, and he defended even though he did not receive the support of the Serbian government and the Serbian Parliament. It doesn't matter how we vote for this resolution, it's very important how we behave, it's important whether this man can perform his duty if his policy is contrary to this Parliament's position. Can we not agree on this resolution? We've been arguing for three days. Let's get one sentence straight. You don't want a radical proposal? Offer you, who are against withdrawing the suit, a new resolution with one sentence - we are against withdrawing the suit. We will also vote for this resolution... (President: You're out of time. ) Then we agree on the final position that is ours, and we do not - we are against the resolution, but we will not adopt any paper. Let's adopt some document and tell Vuk Draskovic that what he's been doing for the past month is private policy and that this country and these people's representatives, and we are citizens' people's representatives, we will never let that happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6605	The word has been made by MP Goran Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6606	I repeat the position G17 plus on the resolution. The resolution, as an imposed topic on the Serbian parliament, cannot be supported by G17 plus. At this point in time for the state, it is illogical to withdraw the lawsuit, for the simple reason that our country is being narrowed down by maneuvering space, and we are making it impossible for this dispute and all that has caused the irresponsible policy of previous years to have an epilogue that will suit the citizens of Serbia and our country. As for tighting, I said and I will repeat, the SRS represents Europe's largest ware since the end of World War II, and that's what I said. SRS policy is the policy of a group of irresponsible people, who did not have a shred of responsibility when they urged Serbian citizens to do what was not possible at that time. They had very few responsibilities, but they had great powers, thanks to the great authority given to them by Slobodan Milosevic as their favorite opposition in the 1990s. This is also how they exploited and made the accident of Serbs in all the areas of the former Yugoslavia much, much bigger than it would have been if they had not irresponsibly called on Serbian citizens to do what they could not. Today, five years after that, to try again with the same rhetoric to drag the citizens of Serbia, since Serbs, unfortunately, are almost not in the places where they worked, is again an attempt to drag this country into a new accident and that this country is being re-exposed from all humanity. That's what the SRS is offering and that's what the SRS wants with this resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6607	The word is made by MP Slobodan Zivkucin, the authorised representative of the SP-NS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6608	Dear Chairman, I would ask you to respect the existence of a warning institute here in the Serbian Parliament, when crazy statements by senior state officials try to characterise themselves as lunatics. I was not talking about anything else, but about the fact that this resolution is actually a consequence of, I repeat, pointless and insane policies and Slobodan Milosevic and the SRS. That someone's statement is crazy, and even if it's crazy, imagine, even if the statement of one of the party's chiefs is crazy, as it is trying to present itself here, it doesn't have anywhere near the tragic, unfortunate, catastrophic consequences of the nation and the state as in the 1990s and 2000s, as senseless and insane policies of those who were in power at the time. So, the nation was pushed into the sun and the states were breaking in thanks to exactly that senseless and, of course, insane policy. Therefore, given the long-standing insistence on such a pointless and insane policy, I agree, it is not a waste to deal with medical science.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6609	Here's a word from the MP Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6610	I'd like to note that there's been a breach of Article 100 here for 20 minutes. The Rules of Procedure, which says MPs must treat each other with respect. That appreciation has been little in the last 20 minutes. I really ask you and I appeal, and in order not to ask for the Assembly to declare the injury of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote, I ask you best to refrain from it. We've had a really good and nice discussion over the past two days, and we shouldn't spoil it. If this is how we're all gonna keep this up together, I don't see a reason for the DSS representatives sitting in benches listening to this debate. Then we'd rather retreat and go outside, and let us know when you're done, when we're ready for a normal and further discussion, so let's go back and keep talking. Like this, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6611	Here is the word of the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6612	I suppose the words of the predecessor are addressed to his coalition partners, but think about who you're in the coalition with. You can tell me the rebuke, because I'm opposition to you. I agree you don't like my discussions. I had no intention of liking them. I also agree that I don't respect you as power, it's my right. You don't have the right to accuse those who are with you in the coalition, so they're destroying the Parliament's reputation here. You're with them. I repeat to you what the people said long ago, who you're with. If the MPs from your coalition say you don't like it, that's what you're talking about. We're not going out, you can, whatever you want. You have the right to come in and get out of the O.R. We're not getting out of the O.R. It's really good for us, it's snowing, the beasts are running around, the tracks are familiar, we're having this debate. According to the predecessor, you can understand why the SRS is fighting so hard to win in Vojvodina, and God forbid it's Vojvodina, God forbid.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6613	National MP Milos Aligrudic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6614	Whoever watched the broadcast on channel three knows what I was saying, and after all, they can take stenographic notes, how many times is the word used: crazy, crazy, etc. by everyone who participated in the discussion here. So I don't see why that wouldn't apply to you, Mr. Nikolic. Did you or did you not use that expression? Yes, it is. Is that an expression of appreciation for this meeting? Great, if you think so, it's good and nice and keep going, let it be your vocabulary, ours will never be.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6615	The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, before I begin to comment on my position on the proposed resolution, I would like to state my personal position and position of the DS on the bombing and use of violence, all with the aim and intention of achieving some political goals. We condemn violence as a means of political struggle, in the fight to achieve political goals. We condemn aggression and express a deep disdain for all that the ossions of aggressors have done, throwing bombs, destroying the lives of our citizens and our material goods. Surely no normal man in Serbia, no MP will give any consent to such behaviour. I think we're here now in front of a false dilemma, who's in favor of supporting NATO aggression, who's a traitor and who's a patriot. No one normal such aggression is nor will they justify in the future. I think that should put an end to a pointless debate. I believe that this resolution, thus addressed and thus offered to the Serbian parliament, was just designed not to be adopted, just to have such a pointless debate, with insults, and to hear again those discussions we heard during the year 2000, during 2001, when, after democratic changes, parliament was established. It suits someone like this, not to get political points, I don't agree with that. I believe that certain political parties are trying to awaken their sleeping electoral body in this way and take them to the upcoming local elections. I therefore believe that individuals are using our citizens' deaths for pre-election political purposes ahead of the upcoming local elections on September 19th. So much, that's the kind of behavior I condemn. I agree with the presentation of former Foreign Minister Svilanovic, completely. Serbia's Parliament is a place to discuss the most important issues relating to the fate of the state and the nation. This is one of the most important issues and should be discussed in this House. The question arises whether a resolution like this is a addressed and offered way of reaching a political answer to the most important questions that plague our country and nation. I don't think so. I publicly say here that I will vote against this resolution, because this resolution is directed not against the NATO Pact, but against the state community. I'll tell you why, first of all, because it's against the Constitutional Charter, because it's politically missed. What happens if the Montenegrin Member State adopts a resolution on the unconditional withdrawal of the NATO Pact lawsuit? Whose resolution will be stronger? What it means in Serbia-Montenegro's relations with the state union, which we have established. A legal basis is raised for this resolution to be reached in the Serbian parliament. This resolution prohibits our representatives in the state union's parliament from thinking, deciding, participating in a debate on the legal issue of a NATO pact suit. Where is this relationship with a member of the Constitutional Charter who says the mandates are free, that our parliamentarians in the federal parliament are free to decide on all matters of their jurisdiction. So there is no legal argument, which we have heard here, that the conduct, attitude or provision of the Constitutional Charter, which is contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, is subject to change or subject to discussion in this House. We, through the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, have declared ourselves responsible for the hierarchy of legal acts, that the Constitutional Charter is a higher legal act than the Constitution of Serbia, because we are obliged to adapt the Constitution of Serbia to the Constitutional Charter as a higher legal act. Here, both the Constitution of Serbia and the Constitutional Charter are violated directly, in the harshest way. But politically, the issue of withdrawing the suit, which was filed against the NATO Pact, is now premature, untimely, and an indisputable debate at the moment in Serbia's parliament. For what? We're here to discuss one negative fact. Anyone who knows the right, most minimally who uses legal logic, knows that negative facts are not being discussed. The previous government and the previous ruling coalition, which was able to file and withdraw the lawsuit before international courts, did not do so. She didn't drop the suit filed against the NATO Pact. This speaks of the relationship between the previous coalition that ruled at the federal level, but also about the democratic party's behaviour towards the filed suit. We don't think a lawsuit against the NATO Pact should be dropped at this point. Whether it will be whole in the future, we will discuss it, but only then if someone makes a request -- concrete, formal, to withdraw such a lawsuit. It is then a place, a time and a moment for this parliament to take its political stance and pass on such an attitude to our representatives in the federal parliament. This written text of the resolution is indeed not calculated on adoption in this House. The purpose and purpose of this debate is to raise one part of the electoral body and gather part of the electoral body around individual parties. Here we heard everything and everything, we just didn't hear what was the subject of the debate, and the goal was to throw away the bone of discord and to share the citizens of Serbia about the fictional dilemma, about the false dilemma -- who is the patriot, the traitor, who is to withdraw the lawsuit and who is not. No one here has pleaded against the condemnation of all those who have committed aggression against our country. I'm afraid this is the way a resolution would be addressed if it was adopted would experience the same legal fate as a criminal act against the leaders of NATO's pact. Now is your chance to ask Clinton to make up for the damage to Serbia from his personal property, because he no longer has presidential immunity. Ask for his extradition by a criminal verdict brought by our courts. I hear the verdict's been lifted. (The Faith of Radeta: It has not been abolished.) This is exactly the legal fate of such politically designed legal acts, which have no basis for reality. Therefore, once again, I believe that the applicant for this motion for a resolution did not expect its adoption, but rather wanted this pointless debate, the introduction of a false dilemma and the bone of discord among the citizens of Serbia, and all with the aim of achieving political points in his part of the electoral body that had been put to sleep. Politics from the previous period and the assessment of politicians and political effects of certain parties have been repeated by citizens in general and direct elections. Serbian citizens have defined themselves as democracy, rationality in judgment and decision-making. That's how it's gonna be in the future. The prevailing political forces, which repeated their 2001 speeches, will not receive support from Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6617	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6618	Am I supposed to remind you who respects the Constitution and the law and who doesn't respect it? You didn't respect the Constitutional Court's decisions for a year, Mr. Ristic. You voted from abroad. You speak in person of the verdicts against the leaders of the NATO Pact, the just, which you have abolished and your authority. You're living here over the MPs for a decision by the executive. But don't forget one thing - you didn't respect the sovereignty of the country even when you came to power. These people came to your country, the verdicts were in force, you received them as statesmen. It was only then that you thought, after a month, that at least those verdicts should be abolished. It won't be the fate of this lawsuit the same, because you don't run the state anymore. Maybe you don't understand. He won't! Generally speaking, the lawsuit should not be dropped. Then how can you say fate will be the same, as with judgments against those who led the NATO pact states? Where's the legal logic? Now you're saying -- the lawsuit shouldn't be dropped, you're saying -- the fate of the lawsuit will be like the fate of a conviction against the heads of the NATO Pact state. What strength of the past, who broke in the last election and who's going to crack on the next one, you can talk too, and I can talk. We have the most recent information from the election. You know how many votes have won in those elections. You're saying your candidate won all the votes, then where are the others from parliament, where are their votes? That's how it works when someone starts to forget. You're wrong. What you're saying is that the lawsuit doesn't have to be dropped, you vote for it. It is only such a trail that remains -- how who voted, not what anyone said in the congregation. Because your party, when it changes its attitude, will say what that Bosko Ristic, he, as chairman of the Administrative Board, has shamed the party, as he has.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6619	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Let the People's Messenger Dragoljub Kojcic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6620	It is clear that the reason for putting up with such an initiative is to prevent any official, whether in the Federal or the Republic Government, from resorting, as was formerly a practice, from taking his own right, as former ministers have practiced, to withdraw or press charges against other countries in his name and name. Where good luck is that in this House we have discussed and held such or similar debate in the past when it comes to withdrawing the suit against Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, which the then federal foreign minister has withdrawn on his own responsibility, self-initiativeally and on his own initiative, and now we are, in this session, witnessing that he is giving us a moral lecture from this pay phone. We Serbian radicals, we bring this idea, we want what we're talking about right now. We responded to a statement by the foreign minister of this state. The country's foreign minister is envied by the idea of withdrawing a lawsuit against NATO member states. The reason why we have essentially launched this debate is in the fact that high-ranking officials at the republican level are announcing that in a few months, they will be sitting with representatives of Montenegro and sharing this community called Serbia-Montenegro. Some high-ranking officials in the republic and the federal government are already considering how and how they will sell Kosovo and Metohija. Some do not even hesitate to say publicly that Serbia should be federalised and conditions for Vojvodina to secede. All of this is supported by how such decisions will cause the world's international community's well-being, and some support some information relating to the financial assistance we would receive if we eventually agreed to give to the Shiptars Kosovo and Metohija. For this reason, but also because of previous experience, when it comes to the individuals who say it, and those personalities in the people are known as birds of the ominous, it is in politics the kind of bird that when something starts to sing, the international community should be expected to put pressure on them. Why? Because these ominous birds have their own representatives in parliament and it is possible that, in different combinations and in a different proportions of political forces, there is a realisation of everything they now ominously announce. The Serbian Radicals' goal is already met when, according to the Business, you had to adopt the Serbian Radical Party's initiative to conduct this debate. Gentlemen, will you accept this act as a declaration, as a recommendation, as a resolution, for Serbian citizens, after this three-day debate, it is less important. For us Serbian Radicals, the most important and essential thing for Serbian citizens to hear and see what anyone thinks, as well as how they think about the fate of this country, is how anyone pleads when it comes to state interest, especially when it comes to this debate of multiple importance, where national interest is concerned. That call to history, through history, gentlemen, leave for some other time. Personally, I have a misunderstanding for some colleagues who, by strengthening their personal positions in certain political options, want to use this current replacement to strengthen themselves with their leaders. You have to understand, I'm telling you honestly, I'm saying this as advice from my colleagues, the policy of those leaders of yours, and they don't accept their family anymore, and Serbia doesn't have to accept their ideas. Act on your conscience. As an honorable man, you are against withdrawing the suit, so vote. Do not, gentlemen, respect an irresponsible statement, not a man who is the leader of a political party in this case, not a prominent political figure on Serbia's political scene, but a foreign minister. Where good luck we had this debate when he was the irresponsible Minister Goran Svilanovic. It would have been much better for Serbia if we had held this debate at the time, because we would not have waited for that kindness of BiH and Croatia, and we would not have kneeled and begged the international community to influence Ali's Bosnia to withdraw the lawsuit against Serbia. Meanwhile, it remains a burden for us to, one day, want it or not, if the BiH lawsuit is resolved for BiH, we must pay so much, that it must be paid for generations. The real danger in all this is the fact that this country represents and represents Tibor Varadi. It is a man who is an ideologist of all those who would separate and separate Vojvodina from Serbia. It might be better if, as part of this resolution, as the parliament of a federal unit in the community, we commit the MPs elected, delegated from this parliament, to raise the issue at the federal level. Tibor Varadi is a man who provides, along with George Soros, the largest logistics to the Vojvodina autonomists, all those who are already announcing that the issue is only the moment when, through the internationalisation of the Vojvodina issue, the issue will be raised, in their opinion, the key question, the separation of Vojvodina from Serbia. These are far more serious reasons for the debate in this House, which will result in one obligation of the federal parliament to what we are saying here. As for the issues of constitutionality or the anti-constitutional adoption of the proposed resolution, where are you defenders to raise your voice to those sent by Milo Djukanovic from Montenegro, who, meanwhile, as they adopt an opinion in the federal parliament, is holding a debate in the republican parliament of Montenegro on everything that is under the authority, but also what is outside of the authority of that parliament? You can't say a word to them, and the public needs to know why you can't. Most of your leaders still owe Milo Djukanovic. Milo Djukanovic hasn't taken all the cards out of his sleeve yet. Wait, when his position is compromised and you hear how many of your leaders have taken from you, they've borrowed money from Milo Djukanovic. For this reason, not you personally, but your leaders, you must not raise this question. Here you impose a ban on us: it is forbidden for the Republic of Serbia's parliament to take care of the state of Serbia and its citizens living in it. That job is in vain. The public will be defined. The public will give their opinion, and not just in the election. They call us daily and tell us what they think about your attitudes, especially the attitudes of those who are for failing to accept the resolution, but also those who are in favour of withdrawing the lawsuit against NATO member states. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6621	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Ksenija Milivojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6622	Several provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been violated here, and I shall state, very deliberately, and for the sake of illustration, Article 100, because I see that we have all been led astray, and I also find this a personal insult, but also an insult to all MPs in this assembly. For the first time now, although it has been clear to all of us since this session was scheduled, we have had the opportunity to hear what were the real motives of the request for a session of the Assembly. As we had the chance to hear, this debate is our own goal. So we're not interested in the resolution or the fate of the lawsuit, our real motive is to discuss some past days here and collect a few points, if that's even possible in this atmosphere. I would like to say something about stability, because constantly, from this pay phone, respects the stability of this country, in the context and as a state community, and as Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, which, of course, I am interpreting as another attempt at classical political abuse. Gentlemen, we all have our dreams, and so did you, and you're talking about how you're dreaming about big Serbia day and day. I don't mind that you dream of a great Serbia, but I do mind when your dream kills Serbian children. The difference between you and us is that no Serb citizen will die because of our dreams, nor will his life and health ever be in danger. It's an important difference, and that's why we'll always be different, and that's why we'll never let you have your dreams again and even try to realize it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6624	You're too small and too small, both as a party and as a political figure, to replicate to you, and smaller and smaller, from day to day. At the beginning of this session, I told you, as the Democratic Party grows, you will disappear. Your destiny is like the fate of JUL. Your actions are the same as the actions of their high-ranking officials. To explain to you now what happened in the past, when you already have your opinion, your attitude, your image, for nothing. There's no way anyone's gonna let you know later. You're going into this parliament with her, you might go out with a little bit more, but to be completely, you can't. I'm not talking to you personally. I respect you, above all, as a lady, as a colleague, do not realize that I am speaking to you personally, but to your MP group. As for the tragedy that some political parties have caused Serbia, we leave someone else to judge about it, and the best judge is Serbian citizens. What happened in certain historical moments, let historians give their opinion. Some things we can discuss here in this congregation, discuss, express our opinion, express attitudes that have been accepted. These views clearly state that the leader of your party is the only man of the continuity of power, from 1990 until today, man is always a high official. What's the difference? The only difference is who was above him in function, who was in charge. Is it Radoje Kontic or Vojislav Kostunica? But there's only one thing you need to be clear about. The only man who has felt the devastating intention and politics that your leader and your political party are the late Zoran Djindjic. Unfortunately, he had no time to realize everything he had prepared for your leader and your political party. But instead, in the next election, the first to come (local, regional or republican level) will be done by the people, the citizens of Serbia. Don't make anyone sad anymore. No one has done more evil to Serbia than the representatives of your political party. The largest official of Milosevic's government in this parliament is Miroljub Labus. The vice-president of the federal government was the deputy famous Radoj Kontic. He looked in love at Radoj Kontic. There are also day-to-day photos, which have been published in "The Great Serbia". (President: You're out of time. Your Honor, my colleague, I am now speaking to you. Every man, normal and alive, of flesh and blood, has a dream of his own. To us, Serbian radicals, the desire is to realize the dream, the eternal dream of the Serbian people, to live in their country. We dream that dream with our people. It sometimes coincides, sometimes differs from the current mood of most of the citizens of this country in which we live. A man who has no dreams, who has no idea, doesn't have to deal with politics. If he doesn't have a vision, what's he doing with politics? Since we in this congregation know many secrets, which in this room, which from the towers, we continue to dream with our people and wait for them to come true. You'd better change the partner you're dreaming with. If nothing else, it's healthier.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6625	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6626	Well, it's not the first time in this congregation you've been chasing facts. No, it's too mild a term, that you don't know the facts at all, so it's no wonder that during the 1990s, when you took possession of the largest number of this assembly, the citizens were completely uninformed. Everything I have the chance to listen to in the last few months is just keeping me in that belief. I'll let you know. The whole Serbian public knows that. But since you don't know, I'll give you that notice, that Mr. Labus, the vice president of the federal government, became in 2000 after October 5th. It's important to point out that it was after October 5th. He was there until 2003. In March 2004, he became Serbian Deputy Prime Minister. So much for his engagement. I have one request, and I think I speak to a large extent on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. Please don't dream anymore on our behalf. We've been ruined by those dreams of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6627	The word of the messenger of the people is Dragoljub Kojcic; let the messenger of the people be prepared, because of Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6628	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would not accept being a participant in this debate if I were not deeply convinced that we have the right to debate and have the right to take a stand. I will try to theoretically explain my decision to participate in this debate. First of all, this is a question in the area of so-called sovereignty issues. The sovereignty, both at the level of the Republic and at the level of the state community, has its people's MPs. Because of the way in which the MPs of the state union were elected, the original right or jurisdiction of sovereignty has this assembly, and then the jurisdiction in matters of sovereignty in the state community is exercised. So we have the right to adopt a position that has a binding or minimum sense of recommendation for our colleagues from the parliament of the state community. First of all, when it comes to direct issues, the fact is that we have really, for too long, not developed a strategy of international relations. Until the bombing of our country in 1999, we were a country in isolation, precisely because we didn't have developed international relations. Mr. Todorovic mentioned Slobodan Milosevic, he says, as if only he was responsible for everything. The good part is also the fault of his military-political strategist and adviser Mirjana Markovic-Milosevic, for which our foreign policy of the time relied primarily on the wrong choice of allies. We remember well. The strongest ally had only one night, the night he drank champagne and mistyped his strategic partner in Moscow. The fact is also that after October 5th, and I speak as one of the participants of October 5th, on the part of the Democratic opposition to Serbia at the time, we do not have a developed strategy of international relations and everything that could be said to have been done was done in terms of the country's admission into those organisations and international institutions that would otherwise be admitted by automation. In such a situation, it is absolutely no wonder that we have two opposing attitudes here. One is the view that any responsibility should be imposed on the international community and another is that the international community can be amnesty in everything. So what's ahead of us is to determine one serious and, to put it in modern language, a viable strategy of international relations. The fact that Vuk Draskovic made such a statement as he did is due to the good work and that we don't actually have a classical form of government at the level of the state community. So there's just so-called. a horizontal division of the authorities, in which no protocols are defined to establish a common policy. In such a situation, it is natural for someone like Vuk Draskovic to make a statement. Right away, it would not be correct if any statement had been made, even one I would agree with, unless it was a result of a procedurally defined and reached conclusion on the common position of the government at the level of the federal state. For me, this is a useful conversation, but there is one problem. It is not a good signal to the international community at this delicate moment, and we are all interested in the development and position of our country in front of an international factor. This conversation between us, absolutely, is not a good signal. In any case, we should define ourselves between two principles – between the principle of justice and pragmaticism. It's sometimes hard to fit in, and I'm going to try very briefly, almost in one flash to give a sketch of my vision, to start with that principle that is principled, the principles of justice, which primarily spring from ethical decisions. The fact is, during NATO bombing, several thousand of our fellow citizens were killed. I will deliberately avoid being pathetic, but it is also my pain, as I believe, and the pain of most of you. We have heard in moments that there are no elements to accuse NATO of genocide against our people. It was said in a discussion that the United States had made a deal with the People's Republic of Vietnam and did not complain to each other just because it had put out a legal theory after the end of the war. And the most interesting one was, by the way, a highly famous lawyer named Jacques Verge, not close to me for political beliefs, but then he made a claim that when there was a random killing of civilians, there was a genocide store. In Grdelica, it wasn't random in Varvarin, but it was intentional killing of civilians. I ask: Who has the right to amnest any responsibility for the murder of our countrymen and our fellow citizens? That right to myself for moral reasons I couldn't take over. Secondly, if we all advocate the rule of law, then that right must apply at national level, but it must also apply internationally. Who has the right to amnesty to NATO for a campaign to bomb our country without legal basis, without justification in the Security Council's decision, on a balanced occasion in the village of Račak, such as the economic sanctions imposed on us by our country on a balanced occasion called market in Markalam. Finally, let me get to the point of pragmatism. Mr. Verko Stevanovic, I'm sorry he's not here, mentioned the principle of goodwill in international relations. I'm not shutting down that possibility. Unlike some other debaters, I don't think Mr. Verko Stevanović is a traitor. Otherwise, I remember as a citizen of this city a very honorable and very effective role of the SPO at the level of the city government during the bombing, and I say for the sake of the truth, that it is known. However, Mr Verko Stevanovic, in his exposé, overlooked that a good will always shows one who is stronger, and we have given sufficient signals of goodwill – two presidents of this country are in The Hague, several generals, several high-ranking officials and no return signal. Two other examples - the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore without the consent of Republika Srpska representatives, has no intention, and clearly and loudly these days says there is absolutely no intention, to withdraw the lawsuit against our country, even in spite of the fact that we withdrew the suit against Bosnia and Herzegovina. These days, an initiative has been launched to launch a discussion before the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the alleged shagging of members of the Hungarian national minority in Vojvodina. It's unfortunate that this ally of Russia, its representatives, Ukraine, for Azerbaijan, is less surprising to me, etc. Do you want me to ask you – is any good signal given to this country when two months ago the candidate of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union was appointed, with one of the arguments that it had met the conditions so-called. A functioning democracy. I ask, do these conditions also apply to 300,000 ethnically cleansed Serbs, who live in our country today and who, since Croatia is obviously at a pace at this moment, will need a Schengen visa to achieve their basic political rights, let's say the right to vote in the Republic of Croatia? Is that a good signal for our country? So, I wouldn't be absolutely and unconditionally against dropping the lawsuit, but I would accept the only one-time withdrawal of all charges, because it's the only modus that wouldn't offend our victims during our country's bombing campaign. It's not about material damage, it's what others have said that are more qualified than I am, but I would say that by withdrawing the suit against NATO, and in staying all those lawsuits against our country and the conclusions of our country's Satanization campaign, we would have left one very problematic will or legacy to our descendants, that their ancestors were truly guilty of everything. It wasn't all our fault. Therefore, the withdrawal of the lawsuit at this time can come, among other things, only if it would cease to Satanise Serbia and if an international conclusion would still be reached which would also be the rehabilitation of the Serb people as such. Also, there is a great paradox in our international policy among those who lead it, which is - diplomacy and its first man should act on the international community rather than on us. However, the first man of our diplomacy wants to convince us to change our attitude towards this event that we are talking about, about the bombing of our country, instead of measuring its success, how far it has managed to convince the international community to change its attitude towards Serbia and the Serbian people. Finally, the identity of the bomb assessment, of this event, I have to say, in no way does it imply the identity in the policy assessment that preceded the bombing of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6629	Replica, MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6630	An esteemed colleague of mine mentioned my name, nothing was offensive on his part, but I do need to say something that I didn't get to say about the pay phone. It is not about whether Slobodan Milosevic is responsible for other things, but for NATO aggression is not. Is it thought that someone else in Slobodan Milosevic would allow Albanians to make another state of Kosovo and Metohija, that our officers, our boys and soldiers are being shot as clay pigeons, without any consequences and without any State reactions? It could have been any other president, and Vojislav Kostunica and the late Zoran Djindjic, including Vuk Draskovic himself, would have been bombed and there is no doubt there. Those who have this illusion that NATO's alliance would give up some of its other global goals that were not just -- bomb Serbia, they are in a great illusion. Today, they have this illusion, because they think that accepting everything and everything that comes from this very NATO alliance could improve the future position of the Serbian state. Please, the late Zoran Djindjic entered into a conflict with the West on this particular issue -- the money he promised for this country, and it did not happen that the money came, and the reconstruction was not created. At the same time, I remind you, and all citizens, that the SPS, as the institution of government at that time, precisely because of the reconstruction that was carried out in one fantastic way, lost the elections because Serbian citizens had to give up their better lives for the restoration of bridges in Novi Sad, refineries, hospitals, etc. That's the essence of the story. I could understand, now I'm not talking about the predecessor, that this assembly is one day talking about something that might be a document that we could call a alignment with the NATO Alliance, that we have a document that says, okay, don't sue us, drop the lawsuit, but that's why we're going to make up for the real material damage and all the other losses that have been caused by NATO aggression; withdraw the lawsuit, we're going to give you money to restore what you haven't renewed. The NATO-led alliance, led by America, has committed a previous crime with years of sanctions against the country. Who deserved these sanctions? Who suffered, and why are we making these false dilemmas? I've been asking that question over and over again for the third day. Serbia would be bombed, NATO aggression would be carried out, as preparations for such a thing were made independently of who was the president. (President: Time.) The same president, Milosevic, was just the ones who bombed us with big inscriptions at Welcome President Milosevic Airport, etc. Suddenly, from a peacemaker in the Balkans, he became a Balkan butcher, just to justify himself... (President: You're out of time. )......................................................................................................... that future NATO aggression.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6631	The word of the messenger of the people is Sredoiah Michael. He's not here. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and let the MP Milan Stanimirovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has since its founding shown that it is a state-of-the-art political party, extremely patriotic, national, to take care of, above all, the Serbian people, then all other citizens of Serbia, and we have shown this in particular in action, and we have had the opportunity to act as such and to be seen and recognised by the citizens as such, and by this power and determination within us and in the period since the arrival of the five-octobaric people, those who are Americans, not the conspiracy theory, but by means of enormous material means, with the very synchronised action of other Western countries, prepared to take power in our country on 5 October. For a reminder, I'll tell you that we voted in favour of three resolutions concerning the defence of state and national interest. It is about resolutions and one declaration on Kosovo and Metohija. With this proposal, namely the resolution we gave you, which concerns the non-restriction, or binding resolutions for all state authorities and for all the politicians in power and the future, that we do not withdraw the lawsuit against NATO member states, which have carried out an unmistakable aggression against our country and our people. We wanted to show once again that our national and national interests were above all else and that we always invited people to state and national unity. It is not just a flossula and it is not some term in a series of pointless terms used by individual MPs for this speaker over the past three days of debate. Because, you know, when someone has no arguments, and when they don't know anything about it, so they say -- that's conspiracy theory, and they don't know neither the plan of America and the greatest military alliance, and above all the American administrations, about their political, about their military, geostrategic goals, when it comes to seeing that someone went to primary or high school when the period of disintegration of the former Yugoslavia was, then it's pointless that as serious and responsible people, politicians with a serious argument, we talk to people like that. Terms such as "decision", "simple", "simply", "simply" etc. They are not an argument for serious talks between us here today, the representative of the country's most legislative authority. And I'm going to remind you of that, especially the vass of this kind-like, flimsy coalition. You're always talking about you being representatives of the people, the people really have passed part of sovereignty on to you, and you don't want to take that responsibility, in the name of the people in the future, to protect the interests of the state and its citizens. The bombing of Serbian people and aggression by the Western military alliance did not begin in 1999 with an unremembered aggression against a nation and state, which occurred here in Serbia. For those of you who have no sense of belonging to the Serbian people and don't know that our people have tried to exercise their rights over the centuries, the ato is the right that should be guaranteed to everyone, to live in their territory, and I will tell you that the Serbian people were bombed for the first time when the first bombs with impoverished uranium fell to Udbina airport next to Knin in 1994. Those of you who never wanted to have that sense of belonging to our people in our Serbian, who lives west of Drina and Danube, then you probably thought and said -- as far as we're concerned, it's far away, it won't be here. Unfortunately, it happened because of the fact that Americans systematically, on the one hand, with enormous material, logistics and any other support, prepared their loved ones to come to power, and on the other hand to punish us, as no one in the world has done, because we wanted to defend our territory, the right to survive and to live free life which, unfortunately, now to Serbia do not have in our southern province, in Kosovo and Metohija, you then used all the media under the direct jurisdiction of local self-government, and then you were in power in these municipalities and cities, to court the Americans and the Western powers, to reach out to them and to serve them. And this was widely used by the SPO, and Vuk Draskovic, and DS, and about you who in some way came into this encrypted organization, such as G17 plus, and showed up on a political scene, not only do we not know anything in that period about a public statement, because you simply do not exist, nor will you exist in the future, as a relevant political factor in Serbia, which will be asked and decided. That's why you say "decision", "simple", "simply", you don't know anything about it, and we really are participants in all these events, which through the direct defence of the people and the state, as congratulating and real Serbs do, and not to hide and turn the lights off from the callers, and to defetist and deserter from their obligations, as SPO representatives did, we have shown that we will in future protect the interest of the people and the state. We now want to do this by all international-public conventions, standards recognised everywhere in the world. What Boris Tadic and Vuk Draskovic have said these days, our country has not sued the United States and Spain, you heard in the first presentation of Mr Tomislav Nikolic that it is simply not true. The suit was dropped against them, and it was individually in place for these eight other members, for the simple reason they objected to Article 9 of the International Convention on genocide. I must warn you, the genocide of the Serbian people continues over that unprotected life in Kosovo and Metohija, while the government of Dossunik, Svilanovic, and now also Tadic, does not want to link such a role as the Western military alliance and so on. KLA, terrorists and ballistics, who destroy everything Serbian in front of them. I will also remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, when you talk about the fact that we, above all, need to cultivate the good international relations that you are boasting, and you have done nothing on either the economic or political plan to make our people feel these consequences and such good co-operation as America and the Western forces, that a general, otherwise French, from the Western military alliance, General Jofre, said when your friends bombed and systematically destroying civilians during NATO's aggression, called humanitarian intervention the Merciful Angel, that he, as General NATO's pact, was ordered to destroy all life in Serbia. That is why it is important for us to insist on the fact that genocide has been committed against our people. Many here have spoken and mentioned the amount, one of the amounts of estimated war damage, which we insist on and should insist on, 100 billion dollars. This material amount is nothing compared to the sacrifices we made, to civilian victims and to the fact that nearly 3,000 people were killed, and 30% of them are children. A genocide over the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija following the NATO Pact's arrival, and there is a direct link between the NATO Pact genocide and the Cypriot terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija, following the adoption of the Chernomidin-Ahtisari plan, which was the only one against which Serbian radicals were in this assembly; he suffered the greatest casualties. This continued aggression against the people and the state. The aggression against the Serbian people and the state continued after the arrival of the five-octobaric riots in every respect, and through the arrival of such people from such organisations, from such parties that have introduced debt slavery into our country, through the systematic destruction of economic entities, the inability of citizens to live normally and work, to serve themselves and their children, without talking about the fact that we are as a state and as a people completely humiliated, and above all Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, who you have left behind. You are now so loud in support of Vuk Draskovic, who abstained after all of this, both after his actions and as a major opposition and when he was the vice-president of the federal government, that on the night between 18th and 19th March of this year in the latest Serb death in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs during the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, our police force carried out over the Shiptars ethnic cleansing. Where's the cheek? Where's the morale? Do you know what kind of man and who your choice is at the post of foreign minister? The SRS expert team, which has known the operation of Vuk Draskovic since the start of the multi-party in our country, has given over 1,000 pages a very clear and detailed analysis, which has also been the subject of a court dispute, to explain to both the professional public and all Serbian citizens what kind of man it is. After the victory of the SRS in December in the parliamentary elections and after the failure and inability of the DSS to realise that Vojislav Kostunica's rating, due to many moves wrong from the position of the federal president, has collapsed, that the other party is in effect. So, not accepting to make a coalition with the strongest SRS, we have come to a situation where, through your policies, blackmails, accusations and combinations, who, not just an unaccountable man, but a scientifically proven disturbed man, will come to the post of foreign minister. When I say so, I have in mind the fact that he acted in that sense and was staying as an MP for a month here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's assembly benches. This unaccountable behavior, what he was saying in congregation towers, statements he's been giving to journalists, a walk, after all, which is all just not the behavior and walking of a normal man, and above all what he's been doing as the president of the SPO for the past 14 years, wasn't enough for you not only to predict him for this very important role, such as the foreign minister, but you now more than warmly support him. We cannot ignore the responsibility of Boris Tadic at this time, and we have told you who the people and the international and domestic experts are, that Boris Tadic, also in his latest talks with the position of the president of the Republic of Serbia, received a clear warning from the Americans that the lawsuit must be withdrawn. Such policy and behaviour, open treason behavior since the beginning of the operation of SPO, Vuk Draskovic, is on your hands, and is no different from what is DS and what is Boris Tadic. However, whatever the decision is and, first of all, the DSS, here, I'll tell you, Mr. Aligrudic, Mr. Prophetic and the other DSS gentlemen, and later brains can be smart. The whole Serbian public saw yesterday that Tomislav Nikolic quickly left the government of Serbia building and told reporters that he had agreed with Vojislav Kostunica to respect the text of the resolution with your remarks and at your request. If you realize today, if today is the day to vote, that it is important to stay in what your president accepted yesterday as possible, not to succumb to blackmail and pressure by some party or organisation that can never transfer censorship to Serbia's elections again, you will know that you are responsible people, that you are people who want to keep the unity of the state and the people. And you will know that as a state and as politicians, we will use the opportunity to use ourselves in the future, according to all international and public recognised rights and obligations, to compensate for the invaluable, and yet it is not known what the exact amount of war damage is. We will be sure that with our own attitude, we will strive to preserve both the state and the people from further indignities of those whose goal is not necessarily to recover us economically, nor to help us to survive, but to have other clearly expressed goals. They have shown this by their strength and their economic power, and through the exponents of such a policy that has been implemented here by the factors that are today power, and in the past 15 years. It is illusory to speak further, because this story would not be the end of it, whether it is reasonable or not, Vuk Draskovic. Tom's book by Prof. Vojislav Seselj and SRS has been published about Draskovic's incompetence, and I told you again, the expert team has dealt with this and the court has proved that man is not comprehensible. Come on, look into the truth and you will see that Tomislav Nikolic has not talked about only one million and a half people all these days, Serbian citizens who have shown confidence in the past elections. That number is much higher. Add to that another million, two or three, because from the smallest child to the oldest citizen of Serbia, therefore, there are those who have not used their electoral right to go to the previous presidential elections. Everyone will tell you, the withdrawal of the NATO Pact suit on behalf of anyone, i.e. in their personal name is not a withdrawal on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, who want to know why they were systematically destroyed, primarily civilians killed, our economic, military facilities destroyed, and once and for all to achieve as people, as politicians, consensus, if you have reason, on key, national and state issues. You are free to deceive citizens, and with your presidential bids in municipalities and cities in Serbia, and with your parliamentary lists, to promise them the municipal infrastructure, to do this or what, when you do not care about what the state and people are, where Serbia should go further and how to preserve what is ours and ensure a safe future for children in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6633	The Republic has Milos Aligrudic, a national MP, and then Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6634	I am reporting for two grounds for replication, because my name is mentioned and, secondly, because the Democratic Party of Serbia is mentioned. In the course of this debate, we stressed and we will point out a hundred times - the point of the debate is to withdraw the lawsuit and we said that we do not want to withdraw the complaint. We are against the unilateral and unconditional withdrawal of the lawsuit against eight NATO member states. But when it comes to the issue of consensus, by important state and national affairs, then we can say why Tomislav Nikolic went to Vojislav Kostunica yesterday. That's what you mentioned. He was about to negotiate, a large opposition Serb Radical Party group, with the prime minister of the state, on such issues. There's two or three of them. It's normal to talk about it. It's the different atmosphere, which came after the parliamentary elections, which you mentioned. It is not this government, which today, was created to encourage misunderstandings and conflicts, but was also the result of a compromise. These compromises were first offered by the Democratic Party of Serbia, in the form of a government that would include all members of this parliament. It's not accepted because of those who can't talk to each other. The Democratic Party of Serbia has always been and will be a catalyst, someone able to silence these disputes and move towards compromises. If you had just said that we should support the resolution, which was also a kind of blackmail in this House, because it was proposed by the opposition parliamentary group, which wanted to impose its act, which would have given an answer to this question, if we had seen that we had no agreement on this matter, we were the first ones who tried to find a written form, a sentence that everyone would agree on and that we would all vote on. But if that wasn't possible, then it's also blackmail when you call us here to vote with the others in parliament, and it's clear that everyone about that thing or almost everyone, and I can't say it all, we all think the same thing. So that's the way to compromise. It's the way we're going to reach a consensus tomorrow, not to call each other out-- in principle who's not with us at this point, that's against us. That's just not true. When are you right? When you invite us to vote on a document, which is so offered, or when you're talking about a consensus that needs to be reached. We've been trying and we're going to try to get a consensus on all the important issues here. This is also an important question. If we do not have a consensus on the paper, which we are to vote on today, the vote on it is not a good thing, the debate in this case is sufficient, and the vote on the document, which is seen as no possibility that at least two-thirds of the MPs of this Parliament will accept it, is not good, if we agree that this is an important issue. That is the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia. It is not correct to involve other things, especially telling us that this country will fail because the Democratic Party of Serbia has not decided to join the coalition with the Serbian Radical Party. Our position was very clear before the elections -- with whom the Democratic Party of Serbia would enter the coalition and with whom it would not. That, as much as we could, and given the results of the choices they were, respected, we liked it whether someone liked it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6635	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Ksenija Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6636	I report on two basiss: the Rules of Procedure and the second one - a replica to the previous exhibition. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, it is a number of times mentioned article 100. Unfortunately, we are in a situation to advertise it very often, for the simple reason that the address of certain MPs in this assembly has become, in the least, degutant. So, no matter who's in this particular case, the insults we can't tolerate, we can't particularly tolerate them by those who have been trying to convince us here for three days that they're taking care of the state and the people. So if you care so much about the state and the people, at least behave politely and civilly from this pay phone. That is why I ask that the Assembly declare the violation of this member of the Rules of Procedure in the voting day. I'll move on to replica now. So the question here is, what was G17 plus doing during the '90s or the '90s? I'll let you know what G17 plus was doing and what the G17 plus MPs were doing today, sitting in this assembly. While you were drawing the borders of a great Serbia or while you were dreaming of a great Serbia, and forcing the Serbian people to die for that dream of yours, or force it to extend the borders of that great Serbia, to reduce them to the smallest in its history, a large number of our MPs did not, gentlemen, put out the lights, but, respecting their country, by respecting their country's call, went and fought, unfortunately, for those dreams, although deeply not believing the goals you drew. On the other hand, since you're already teaching us patriotism lessons, you've been doing it for the last three days, I'll tell you how we from G17 plus see patriotism. You exposed this people, not only in 1999, but long before that, to a great torment and tragedy that only culminated in NATO's bombing. Since we were thinking about how to help the people, how to take care of them, then we provided them in 1998 and 1999 with heating for our projects, which concerned the provision of heating and asphalt in all major cities of Serbia. You gave the people electricity restrictions, tanks on the street, and we gave them heating and asphalt. I think the citizens will know to judge who the patriot was, and who gave tragedy and misfortune to this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6637	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6638	Mr. Mihajlovic, I'm not answering the Rules of Procedure, but I have the right to reply, because the previous lady spoke of the alleged rude behaviour of the previous speaker, and to protect Mr. Aligrudic, she probably meant him. As for what this encrypted G17 organization did, I said it in the context of my exposure, because I seriously and reasonedly wanted to point out our insistence that you stay at our resolution and on the proposal, because it was all legally justified and because it was the only future for the Serbian people and children living here, primarily for the compensation of this material damage, which is $100 billion. Whether you agree with it or not, the debt slavery that Labus restored, loans, borrowings, sale of our factories, shutting down national banks, is not a policy that can lead us to Europe and European integration and offer the people what they need, which is to support their children and to have basic life supplies. There are no more than two million people in Serbia today. You're aware of the fact that your teams are kidnapping and robbery teams. And you had one team for Europe, G17 plus, and this photo shows it (keeps paper), left to right, with a photograph of Predrag Markovic, president of the Assembly, late Radovan Stojčić - Badge, also the late Željko Raznatovic - Arkan and Edward Limonov, called Edič, in the centre for special training of Serbian volunteers, because Serbs had to defend themselves west of Drina and Danube. It was done by every honest Serb - one who has a sense of belonging to his people. While you were a schoolgirl in elementary or high school, during the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, while the people died under the Ustasha knife, while people were saving their children and their hearths, serious people and serious politicians were protecting the state and the people. That's what we'll do in the future. We never wanted anything else. You are free, Miss Milivojevic, that five thousand times Tomislav Nikolic tells you that you have not wondered anything, but in 1990 only three politicians wondered what the state should look like and what we are going to do, because it was obvious that they wanted to banish our people and take away what is ours. These were: Milosevic, Vuk Draskovic and our esteemed president, Professor Vojislav Seselj. All three agreed in a position where the western borders of Serbian countries are. Vuk Draskovic also sent his volunteers to train and instructed them to defend Serb hearths. You have no idea what to say here in your terminology – simple, simple and decision. You can say that at talks and consultations, unfortunately according to the Democratic Party of Serbia, with Mr. Aligrudic, who agrees with such blackmails, to advertise in the form of a statement, not to vote for a binding resolution. No matter how many times you answer and go out for this pay phone, you, as Ksenija Milivojevic and as a representative of that organisation, G17, have no legitimacy to talk about it, first of all because you are currently under the censorship of the electoral body, and especially because you know nothing about the period of these events, about what is imperative for every honorable Serb, to defend his country and his people. [[GROANING APPLAUSE]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6639	The word has the People's Messenger Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6640	Looks like I have to meet my colleagues again with the facts. What happens constantly in this congregation is that some MPs do not know the facts at all. Legitimity stems from election results. The election results showed that G17 plus has 34 MPs in the Serbian Parliament. That's what you see here. But because you don't like it, there's really nothing I can do about it. It's legitimacy. That's what I'm telling you as a lawyer. I also tell you this because I really ask you to speak exclusively in the future, especially when you rely on the profession, what you are really professional in, and I don't know what your profession is, yet I ask you to, in accordance with your profession and act (to Natashi Jovanovic). We have a story again - the defense of nations and states. I already explained once how people and states are defended, or what patriotism is. I'm going to ask you a question about this: how is it possible that you have managed so well to defend both the people and the state, and that Serbia is smaller today than it has ever been in its history? If you can answer that question with argument, without mentioning foreign mercenaries, imperialist forces and others from your conspiracy theories, then perhaps then I believe you, although I doubt you can give any rational explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6641	Since it's close to 14 hours, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6642	We're continuing our work. First item of the agenda: - Proposal for a resolution on the prohibition of withdrawal or withdrawal from the suit filed by the SRJ to the International Court of Justice in The Hague against the NATO Member States of the damages made during the 1999 bombing. Please determine the quorum before continuing. By applying the electronic system, I find that more than 100 MPs are present in the O.R. and that we have a quorum to work with. The word has been issued by MP Milan Stanimirovic, and let MP Dusan Prorokovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6643	Dear Mr. President, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, before I begin to talk about the motion for a resolution on the ban on withdrawing or giving up the lawsuit filed by the SRJ to the International Court of Justice in The Hague for the damage done during the 1999 bombing, I would just like to say, for some estimates heard about this speaker on the Democratic Page and President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic, that they gave their word to the citizens in the elections for the President of the Republic less than a month and a half ago. In 2000, the Democratic Party took on itself, despite being a major party conglomerate, a broad coalition, and a political risk and political responsibility for the management of a military-politically defeated and economically ruined state, which in 10 years, came from a gross national product of $29 billion, which is an unrecorded decline in economic history and theory in general. I've pointed that out many times for this pay phone. What I'm trying to say is that for three and a half years we had a responsibility to lead Serbia. We took that political risk and political responsibility. In the last three and a half years, none of us thought to drop the NATO pact. I think it's said enough and it's a fact that speaks enough. I believe that there is still the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and that this is not the authority of this parliament. We can also talk in this House about this problem, but bring a resolution on such an important matter? What would happen if Serbia's parliament voted as requested in this resolution and the Montenegrin parliament voted in a counter-resolution? So, the point is that this House is not in charge. What kind of irritated me here, listening to discussions over the past few days, might be happier for this country if we had some final policy goals, which has been led over the past decade, as well as in this way, not even happened. We're talking about consequences. Causes of someone consciously trying to push completely into another plan. We're in this congregation hall like some kind of time machine. We're going through our heads to promote a referendum against foreign interference, to talk to these foreigners after 10 days, agree to make concessions, etc. We miss swearing we'll get out of the government if our side of the boot comes in, and then we'll stay in that government. We remember the story of it – if we do not know how to work well, we know how to fight well. Now it looks -- if we don't know how to work well, we know how to talk, so now we're gonna talk and waste time on this kind of stuff. I also want to tell you that I don't feel that the subject doesn't deserve to be given any attention. What I'm trying to say, and what's repeatedly pointed out by legal experts, is that this was an illegal aggression on our country. So, past the UN Charter, without a UN Security Council decision, past the Helsinki documents, past the NATO Pact itself, which was formed as a defence alliance. I don't think that's disputed, and it doesn't need to be elaborated more widely. It is also indisputable that this aggression was inhumane. She hit the one who wasn't guilty. If there was any guilt, it is certain that the culprits were not the children and innocent citizens of the Serbian state who died in this aggression. This aggression was also counterproductive. If the goal was to bring down a regime in this country, that was not an aggression either. The regime was prone to elections, ballots, citizens of the Republic of Serbia in 2000. So, it is the responsibility of the National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro. This speaker was heard, and precisely about these mixed consequences and causes, we talk about the consequences and we deliberately push the causes of one policy, which led to our allies from two past world wars becoming enemies, to wage war with the 19 most powerful countries in the world. That's what we need to talk about. Why is such a policy being conducted? What's this all about? Not to accuse someone and keep going back in time, but not to repeat their mistakes. All those who are not ready to face the mistakes made in the past are ready to repeat them in the future. And we're too small a people on this world map, even on the European map, so we can afford these mistakes. A strong dictionary on which we have cut ourselves several times towards the international community - I spoke here three and a half or four years ago about how globalism in its essence is very unfair, especially towards developing countries, to countries that are poor, such as our country. I compared it to industrialization, when industrialization was done in time, finding a steam engine, etc. Ned Ludd led a madistic movement to stop industrialization. They were breaking machines to stop the unstoppable. It was not their task, but to educate, to learn to work on these machines, to move forward with the time and age they live in, because it was the only way to survive. They didn't stop by breaking machines industrializing. I say again, globalisation is unfair, especially towards developing countries, especially poor countries like ours. Why we've broken our country, our people and our nation to stop something that's unstoppable. Globalisation is not trying to stop much stronger than we are, not Russia, not India, not China, but looking for a place within the movement that is currently ruling the world. So they all found their place. As a small nation, we especially need to find our place to preserve our people, our country and our nation. We can't act like we're gonna break into a bar full of thugs and challenge them to a fight, and then when we get beat up, then ask those same guys to pay us back, then complain about how it happened to us. We had to lead a much smarter policy on this matter. Here, he throws me Mr Tomislav Nikolic. What Dusan Radovic would say, problems would again be solved by those who made them. Maybe it's the right thing to do, but it's not the smartest thing. That's why we have to think about it. So there's no withdrawing charges against the NATO pact countries. As Vojislav Kostunica asked to see us at the UN on 1 November 2000 and we were admitted to the UN. If we were not at the time of the UN member's aggression, the question arises whether the court can be declared incompetent. If declared incompetent, he will not be in charge of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia's lawsuits either. We'll see if this situation is the one that suits us better. Here we return to the stories of patriots and traitors again. Deeply, this insults me as a man, as someone who is a member of the Serb people, who is proud to be a member of the Serb people, but I am not a professional person and I wish well to this people, to my children and to my other children who live in Serbia, regardless of religion and nation. Adherence to your country is the natural feeling of normal people. It is understandable and more intensely binding to the homeland when it is in trouble and when it seems unfair. Indeed, at a time when NATO bombs were falling, there was no time to discuss political differences. But that's the story – when the house burns down, it's the duty of everyone in the house to get water buckets and put out the fire. But when the fire went out, I'm afraid we didn't get a good look at whether anyone was unwarranted by matches, whether someone irritated the neighbor to start a fire, and to determine what caused this fire and this great tragedy that came upon us as a nation, as a nation and as a nation. I wouldn't believe the patriotism of those who would only defend their country with other people's lives. Many have indeed lost their lives. Two centuries of Serbian history have been in some way gambled for about a decade, the bones of many who have been embedded in the construction of one such state as Serbia. Oholi, stubborn patriotism, which advocates hatred for others, stirs up suppressed passions, causes frustration and aggression, justifies and war-breathing, sharing citizens with patriots and nepatriots, we do not need. I think we're mature enough to get past that. There are many honest people in this Serbia who want to work for the good of their people and their country, and our path leads to European integration, to the community of European peoples, where we have always been, and to come to our senses, to think about never getting into this situation that we were in a few years ago. That's why I can tell you that despite these throws, we remain consistent with what's useful to this country. So we need to turn to the good, generally good, that responsibly, discreetly, that people in us recognize that behind this pay phone, we approach every problem in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6644	Thank you. The word is proposed, Mr. Nikolic, and the next is Mr. Zivkucin, who asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6645	I cannot accept criticism of the defense of the country from one whose president, who is also president of the state, is chasing a man off the street who threw him and cursed his mother. So your party president has the right to beat whoever curses his mother, and Serbia has no right to defend itself if someone attacks her. It's your ideology. Secondly, it wasn't the false patriots who defended Serbia from NATO aggression but millions of people. Millions of citizens have defended this country. Maybe you're putting yourself in those millions. You sit with us, and when someone comes out to accuse you of defending the country, they charge you with the same thing with us. This debate is suitable to reveal what anyone has been doing in the last 14 years. We didn't run away from it when we proposed this resolution. But it's also fresh what you've done in the last three years. Say, you've been running the country for three and a half years. This country, which is now a comparison with the bar, NATO with the thugs, and Serbia with the one who came in to challenge the thugs to beat him. Right, the lunatic movement was a movement against machines, but for this new madistic movement, since there's no fight against machines, I can only say it comes from the head.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6646	The word is Mr. Zivkucin, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6647	Mr. President, in the morning part of the discussion, the Rules of Procedure have been injured because once again we have witnessed the insults of MPs, the insults of the Serbian Parliament and, therefore, I have the need to react and to say the following – we have witnessed here on the third day that an organized heifer, insults, slanders and so on, imagine, an ideological basis, what we thought was overcome, on the ideological basis of insults and the Vuk Draskovic and the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction, and again from those same forces that were organised by Serbia and the whole Serbian people in the period 1990 to 2000, only accidents, defeats, tragedy, misery, isolation and, in the end, bombs. We are witnessing that the same forces appear today, which have been behind the crimes committed over so many members of the Serbian Renewal Movement, Vuk Draskovic and his family. This session, apparently, isn't even scheduled for another motive and another occasion. We are witnessing that at this session he is trying to resurrect himself and give the legitimacy of the policies of Slobodan Milosevic and the Serbian Radical Party. We have made our political position and arguments out of the Serbian Renewal Movement in these past three days fair, open, clear and loud, which is why it is not good to accept this resolution. We've made arguments, which is why it's good to say no. At this session, we are witnessing, there is a hate speech, and this session is no longer a session of the Serbian Parliament that has its dignity. She turned, I said a moment, into a hickey and giving political legitimacy to Slobodan Milosevic. Therefore, Serbian Renewal Movement MPs and New Serbia will no longer participate in this. From now on, you can say whatever you want, whatever you want, whatever you want. You've been saying everything you've said in the last 10 years, however, the people have heard it many times. We don't want to hear it anymore. But when the vote comes, we will return to this session to stand honestly, openly and openly behind our political views, to vote against this resolution. It is our obligation to citizens to say our political position honestly, honestly and responsibly, and that is what we will do. Until then, we will leave this circus.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6648	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Stanimirovic, then has the word Dusan Prorokovic. Of course, the Assembly isn't a circus, and that's probably pervasive.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6649	I just want to remind Mr. Nikolic that unlike what he's being called to in the yellow press, I'm not going to list names so I don't advertise them, who are completely wrong and falsely interpreting an event. And here I attended an event that I couldn't justify on the side that Mr. Nikolic was a national representative in this assembly, but I was able to justify on the human side, at one point he might have been irritated when someone mentioned him in a curse himself, he got up and hit his fellow MP here in the Parliament building on the sixth row. It is truly inappropriate for someone who has reacted so in the National Assembly to speak about the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic on the basis of reports from the yellow press. It's hard to take defeat in a political struggle. Read on page 23 of the book "Political System" Vojislav Seselj's political defeat, Mr Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6650	Of course, here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6651	Not accurate enough, page 23, row 12. Yes, I am as a fellow MP who cursed my mother back as he deserved, but that man from the crowd was not the president of another country, he was a citizen of Serbia, who was struck by the president of the state. That's the difference. That's the big difference. I was an MP for the opposition here, and he was an MP for the government, and I didn't find anything sweeter than when he cursed my mother to hit him with my fist. You then shut me out of the National Assembly session indefinitely. Let me inform you that the Constitutional Court has declared an unconstitutional provision under which you could keep me out of the O.R. as long as you want. Let me inform you that this dispute with the National Assembly has already been won, that I have been called to plead to the height of the damage and that I then gave up the dispute. It was enough for me to show how you, your Democrats, exercised democracy. Don't compare me to Boris Tadic. First, I beat him when we were both candidates and there were more candidates. Then you mustered up the whole world to beat me. That's 200,000 votes. If you think it's defeat, you're wrong. On one side of the whole of pro-Western Serbia, on the other side of the SRS, you were stronger by 200,000 votes, and now you can't see how much you can't stand each other. But, okay. You lost the party president by his election as president of Serbia. And you know very well, because he would like to be here in the O.R., to defend the interests of the former government and the DS, and now he sits and expands the cabinet, adapts it, buys new furniture. We had to run for vice president, because it's usually a function to run for office, but we knew there was nothing to do. We are now fighting for the post of Prime Minister. Once we've won the election as Prime Minister, then we'll determine what you've done, because you've determined what we've done before, so neither of us goes to jail. If you didn't steal, neither will you, if you didn't vote from abroad, neither will you, if you didn't lie from the pay phone to have the plane tickets of those who voted, you won't go to jail, if you didn't rob the state, you won't go to jail, if you haven't done damage to Serbia by exporting sugar, you won't go to jail, if you don't harm Serbia by kidnapping some more banks, to which your finances are preparing, you won't go to jail. But if you've done all this, and there's evidence that it is, then you'll be responsible for what you've been doing. All I know is that we're proud of the time we were in power and it was the time of NATO aggression. I'm listening to some of us here accuse us - the politics of Slobodan Milosevic and the SRS. No, we executed the policy of Vojislav Seselj. When that policy was close to Slobodan Milosevic's politics, we were together. When that policy was away from Slobodan Milosevic, we were separated. But now that you're stealing these signatures from Vojvodina and Novi Sad, because you can't even collect enough to let you know how you organized this year's handover of election material, taught what Slobodan Milosevic did to you in 1993. You shared yours, some even had to wait for you nights outside the door, but you're inside sharing yours to make signatures. In 1993. Slobodan Milosevic shared the SPS with election material, they filled in and handed in. He divided the DS election material, filled it in and handed it over. He shared with Arkana election material, filled in and handed over. Then the election commission gave the other participants the election material to fill in. It's a time when in 1994... (President: Mr. Nikolic, please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... and in 1995 we co-operated with Milosevic, who went public unpunished because of this, and we were in the government that received the burden of answering the whole century, because there were also terrorist attacks and aggression, and you carry the burden that you were against the defence and that your president advocated additional bombing of Serbia, which there is written evidence, and it is not yellow press, it is the world press. If we're dealing with politics, one thing to learn. We're only dealing with what they're gonna talk about when we're gone. Money makes people talk nice about you when you're alive, and parts when you're not alive anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6652	Thank you. Mr. Prophetovich has his word, please. I would really ask the MPs to stick to, at least the authority, the topic we're talking about, and that's all the speakers. Here you go, Mr. Prophet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6653	Dear People's MPs, I would no longer like to discuss the legal-formal reasons and whether this assembly is competent or not to adopt such a resolution. I think the previous speakers and the DSS explained it. Certainly, I see a debate on one of these issues, even if there is no conclusion, as one of the new qualities, the same as the discussions in some other parliaments, where what is burdened society and what is the current political situation. The debate will certainly bring out the political views of individual parties and the public words of certain politicians. I guess a public attitude and a spoken public word commits something. Our position and our word is that there is no unconditional and unilateral withdrawal of the lawsuit against the member states of the NATO Pact. Why unconditional and unilateral? For the simple reason that the conditions may arise for it to withdraw at the time when the conditions are obtained and when the court's decision is made to withdraw the claims of the Republic of Croatia and the Bosniak-Croatian Federation against the SRJ. I purposely say the Bosniak-Croatian Federation, because I responsibly claim that the BiH anti-SRJ lawsuit does not exist. Constitutionally, BiH is established as a state of two entities. No MPs or ministers from one entity, from Republika Srpska, have ever been asked whether the lawsuit should be filed, or what its future fate will be. Our country, as a gesture of goodwill, has dropped a lawsuit against BiH, or a countersuit against BiH, or one of its entities. I'm sorry that Mr. Svilanovic isn't here. I couldn't replicate his opening statement. In the media I learned that the lawsuit was withdrawn solely for legal reasons, we simply dispute the Court's legitimacy that it could make a decision on the Bosniak-Croatian Federation lawsuit, and therefore we withdrew our complaint. The first time, the other day, I heard from him that the lawsuit, among other things, was withdrawn and that Bosnian tanks did not cross into Serbia. Bosnian tanks are not, but armed attacks from the territory of the Bosniak-Croatian Federation on the territory of the Republic of Serbia were. There have been many incidents of light infantry weapons, with more casualties, and shelling of certain cities. I will remind Bajram in 1995, when from the region of the village of Sapna, the municipality of Tuzla, the shelled Mali Zvornik, the school was targeted because of someone's monstrous idea that there were no Muslim children in school that day, the grenade fell not far from school, Mr Dragan Radic died. According to some operational knowledge, it was fired from a 120-millimeter weapon, probably by a hoodie. So, intervention so-called. Green berets and something called the BiH Army -- in fact, it was an army of one BiH entity -- in the territory of the Republic of Serbia during the war. The question is, what would we get by withdrawing the lawsuit at this point? Some say it would make our international position easier, others say the lawsuit is a relic of Milosevic's policy. I wouldn't agree with any of them. Our international position, as long as there are two lawsuits in place, will not make it much easier. Moreover, we may find ourselves in a much worse position by withdrawing the lawsuit than we are now. Of course, there's a claim I didn't mention, which is that we can't win a dispute. How come all this diplomatic pressure to drop the lawsuit if we can't win the fight? Then those pressures wouldn't be if the defendants were convinced we couldn't win the lawsuit. As for the claim that this lawsuit is a relic of Milosevic's policy, the DSS has since its founding said what it thinks of Milosevic and the SPS in certain phases of its operation, but certainly cannot be attributed only to the ruling furniture, which was at that time in power in Serbia, everything that happened in 1999, including the bombing of the NATO Pact. Read the 1996 book Richard Holbrooke "The Job of Peace", published by Rando House, what was going on in BiH, and you will see that it is not only the responsibility of Serbs or Muslims or Croats for the event in Bosnia. There are also responsibilities of certain international factors. In the book, for example, he himself said he suggested that Tudjman allow the Croatian army to enter the region of Banja Luka in a coalition with the Muslim military, in return for Milosevic's offer to the region of Tuzle. Imagine these structures. Of course, it's hard to expect that this will ever be tried or that Mr. Richard Holbrook will ever be called to account, but he certainly doesn't amnesty us to constantly advocate the truth and keep repeating this. We must not allow the implementation of the intentions of some states, some individuals, politicians, some very powerful and influential NGOs, which is that Serbs are guilty of all events in the Balkans from 1992 to today. It's not the Serbs' fault. The truth is a little different. The truth obliges us, and, among other things, because some national parliaments of NATO member states, when it came to the bombing, made decisions that this bombing was contrary to their domestic legislation, such as the Foreign Political Committee of the Canadian Senate in early 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6654	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the SRS parliamentary group proposed to adopt a resolution on the ban on withdrawal or withdrawal of the lawsuit brought by the SRJ before the International Court of Justice in The Hague against the NATO Pact Member States, we hoped that all MP groups would understand all the seriousness and importance of adopting such a resolution, and that it would be an opportunity to take another issue, which in one way or another, affect the lives of all our citizens. in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a consensus will be reached and the international community will understand that there is no division in Serbia on this issue. Sadly, this has not happened, but it is certainly good to discuss such an important issue in the National Assembly. It is good for citizens to have an opportunity to look us all in the eye and to have all the parliamentary groups come out to cleanness and loud and clear say their views on such an important issue. If almost all parliamentary groups agree on the essence, i.e. the ban on the unilaterally unconditional withdrawal of the suit, and all the opportunity to do so, we invite you to show political seriousness and responsibility and, if necessary, if necessary, to prepare the text of the resolution itself, in order for it to be adopted. It would not be the first time, it was also done when a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija was adopted in this Parliament, and I see no reason why we could not do something similar now. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – that the National Assembly is not responsible for the adoption of the proposed resolution, because by adopting the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia has transferred competences concerning international subjectivity to the state union and the Constitutional Charter prescribed that the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly makes laws and other acts in the application of international conventions and relations with international courts, and that the proposed resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would simply not stand. Not because this resolution is not political, because it is, because the essence of this resolution is that it is the political decision of the Serbian parliament, which should oblige all representatives of the Republic of Serbia, or that state at all levels of government. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs sitting in the assembly benches of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Aren't those the delegated representatives of the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia. Have they forgotten who they represent and whose interests they should represent? Montenegro's representatives did not do that, neither did Serbian radicals, but it is a matter of what happened to the others. It is amazing that just those who deny the actual existence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and who are calling on us these days to unify Serbia-Montenegro, argue that by adopting this resolution would be the negated powers of the state community, and that it would also be denied its existence. Do they want to say that the only and basic reason for the existence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is to withdraw the lawsuit against the NATO pact countries. The SRS sought to prevent us from repeating the SRJ suit against the Federation of BiH on 9 April 2001, and that no state body, government or assembly had made a decision on it. Decisions on the most important state issues must certainly be made in parliament. You say you condemn aggression, but that we should withdraw the lawsuit, because we are in a specific situation and that the aggressor countries will not be satisfied that we are suing them. The question arises, were we satisfied that we were bombed? Of course not. Then why would we worry about whether those who bombed us would be satisfied with the lawsuit if they didn't worry about whether we would be satisfied because we were bombed? You say the bombing could have been avoided because guarantees were offered in Rambuje. You later accepted these guarantees, the NATO Pact guarantees, through the Chernomidin-Ahtisari agreement and through the Kumanski Agreement, but the reality is devastating. After the NATO Pact arrived in Kosovo over 300,000 people were expelled, more than 50,000 houses were burned, thousands of people were killed or kidnapped, more than 150 churches were burned. The question is, where were those guarantees back then? Where were the guarantees when the children were killed in Gorazdevec? Where were the guarantees when Albanian extremists expelled the few remaining Serbs from Kosovo on 17, 18 and 19 March? You say our lawsuit will be dropped in October. Then why do you want so much, why are you so eager to pull it back, why do you say that's the main condition for Euro-Atlantic integration? Shall we enter Europe before October, if we withdraw the lawsuit now? Of course not. Why is it that the countries that have been sued so much that this lawsuit is resolved outside the International Court of Justice in The Hague, unless it has any legal basis anymore? The answer to that is clear. Just because it is also clear that NATO countries, which participated in the bombing of Yugoslavia, violated the UN Charter, violated the basic principles of international legal order, that the Geneva and The Hague conventions were violated. The withdrawal of the suit must also be observed within the framework of a request for the extradition of the generals, for the extradition of those who dared to carry out their duty and defend their country. If you withdraw the suit and deliver the generals, will anyone in the future wish and get the courage to defend this country if, God forbid, he comes back in such a situation. The withdrawal of the lawsuit would practically mean that you're giving advance permission to anyone that they can come to bomb us, that they're harassing us, with a promise that we won't even press charges later. If we try to, at least for a moment, ignore the right, justice, all the innocent victims of the seventy-seven-year-old bestial bombing, which are those who represent the unconditional withdrawal of the lawsuit long ago, the question is what is the interest of this country, what is it that Serbia gets or loses by withdrawing or not withdrawing this lawsuit. If we try to get the sober heads out of all aspects of withdrawing or not withdrawing the lawsuit, and these aspects are both moral, legal and economic, we can hardly predict any positive effect of withdrawing this lawsuit. First of all, from the talk of withdrawing the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia's lawsuits, it is clear that there is nothing, as the representatives of the Federation have made it clear to us. This was done, of course, on behalf of the NATO Pact, Mr. Jap Schaeffer, while the idea of withdrawing the lawsuit was so unseriously understood that they didn't even want to comment on it properly, they had already mocked it in advance. If this lawsuit is withdrawn, NATO aggression will be freed from responsibility for all crimes committed during the bombing, for nothing caused by aggression, for killing and hurting thousands of people, for using tape bombs and bombs with impoverished uranium. NATO countries will be released and damages obligations, amounting to more than $100 billion. Giving up the suit would mean accepting the thesis that NATO's aggression pact was caused by humanitarian disaster and ethnic cleansing of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. How may it be, gentlemen, that you are so bothered by the possibility that the International Court of Justice in The Hague has ruled that Canada, England, France, Spain and other sad countries are responsible for the crime of genocide, for the use of forbidden weapons, for endangering the fundamental human rights and freedoms of Serbian citizens, for waging an aggressive war, and in advance, without conviction, you declare Serbia a genocide country and a Serb people a genocide nation. The mark of the criminal people will have to bear all future generations, which will be born and live in Serbia. If you withdraw the suit, you condemn Serbia and the Serbian people in advance for ethnic cleansing, but that's why your ears are so hot when we ask that the International Court of Justice determines that ethnic cleansing of non-Albanian lives from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija has been carried out. The question arises as to what is the fate of our citizens' individual lawsuits before foreign courts. Will they have any chance of success? Why would you care about the interest of individuals, when, as a state, you don't care about collectiveity? The question arises what is the fate of our citizens, who are in the Hague case? What has this country done to improve their position, to help them defend against the charges? Of course, you didn't do anything. Basic human rights have been denied to Dr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague for months. None of the country's officials raised their voice against it, he did not put any protests ahead of international organisations. Finally, I would say that it is really good that this debate is taking place, because some of you are slowly beginning to show nervousness, slowly showing their true face and giving up that initial attitude -- that they have been against unconditionally withdrawing the lawsuit, which is nothing new anyway, because the leaders of the Democratic Party have already represented the the thesis of the unconditional withdrawal of the lawsuit in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6656	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Let the People's MP Milorad Radovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want, first of all, to tell you that I have been thinking very long and intensely these days about whether or not I should talk about this matter, and that most of the G17 MPs plus thought about it, because the topic we're talking about is, for us, still, more emotionally and personally, than the political question, and because these emotions, which we still bear, above all, are pain, anger, disappointment, bitterness, can color the tone of our discussions with tones we don't want, can take away a tone of political tolerance, which we always stand for and can, in some ways, for a certain degree, bring down the culture of political communication, which the G17 plus has always stood for. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you why this is such a painful and emotional issue for us. First of all, that we were in 1999, and the year before that, we were, so to speak, only Serbian citizens, or we weren't in politics. I heard today that some people are accusing us of it and saying that we don't know what was going on back then because we didn't do politics. Is that a direct accusation by Serbian citizens that they don't know what's going on in this country? If we didn't know what was going on in Serbia at the time, then it must be that certain ministers of information could have been guilty. However, we believe that we know well what was going on, because as citizens of Serbia, on our backs, we then felt all the heavy burden of the unreasonable policy that was being led and, unfortunately, which was ended by a catastrophic conflict, a terrible bombing by the world's largest military force ever seen. That's what happened to us as citizens in 1999. That's what none of us will ever forget. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I knew I had to talk about this, because for me, in a way, this topic closed a circle. In 1999, under the bombing, I decided to start politics. Most G17 plus people made that same decision right then. (Tomislav Nikolic: It is not easy for you. I know it's hard for you because we've made that decision, but we've made it because we didn't want to let irresponsible people decide on our lives any further. We felt that it was much safer and that it was better for us to start doing it ourselves. (Tomislav Nikolic: When did you become a party? ) Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, we all had our jobs, we all did our jobs very successfully, now I hear here that many talk very easily about topics that they really don’t know. That's not going to happen to us, because we have topics we know. For example, I've been dealing with psycho-diagnostics and psychotherapy for twenty years, and I still haven't had the courage to tell anyone in this room that he's crazy, not for any political leader, or that, God forbid, I'm from someone's walk to conclude what his psychological characteristics are. But we have geopolitical experts, we have famous great psychiatrists who know it all, we have people talking about Mr. Olaf for ten minutes, thinking it's really a man, not a European Commission. People just know everything, it's good to let them tell us all that. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's get back on the subject, and the topic is the resolution we're discussing, the bombing suit and just NATO bombing. I want to tell you, we have to get back to it, most of you know I'm from Leskovci. Every city has its own story, and Leskovac has its own story about NATO bombing. I want to tell you that Leskovac's 78 days, which his citizens remember very well today, was a city of darkness, sorrow, fear and a terrible expectation. Not only that, ladies and gentlemen, he has been shelled repeatedly, not only because on his territory, unfortunately, as a terrible tragedy, the train was hit, but also because a huge number of reservers were in Kosovo from our city and responded to that call. Almost every house in Leskovac was given by a soldier for Kosovo. Unfortunately, the 10th didn't come back from there. (Tomislav Nikolic: Is that correct? Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we have the right to discuss any individual cases, because these are very difficult things. We have no right, from this pay phone, to abuse the misfortune of any family in this country. On their behalf, we can only keep quiet. But I want to tell you in my name that I knew these people personally, that I knew some of them from childhood, that I knew some of them today, children, women, sisters and mothers. I really must say that Leskovac lived in terrible fear every new day of news he'd bring and get from the battlefield. I know that the citizens of Leskovec, the civilians who stayed in Leskovac, prayed that all those responsible for what was happening to our city would finally come to their senses. We know who did it, of course. No one in this assembly has disputed that it is NATO's fault and that the NATO countries are guilty of this bombing, ladies and gentlemen. But the people of Leskovci did not pray to NATO. They knew they could only expect from their own authorities, from those they chose in the elections, from those they paid taxes, to finally come to their senses and say stop that madness. In that waiting, Leskovac lived every day. Unfortunately, there were more and more victims every day. That's what we also, ladies and gentlemen, need to talk about today. (More messengers, at the same time, from the messenger benches, say, "Please, no emotion." I've already said I can't talk about this subject without emotion. Now again, ladies and gentlemen, after five years, we in this assembly hear similar tones. We hear there's no need to negotiate. We're trying to ban our representatives from ever negotiating a topic. I'll tell you right away, the G17 plus on this issue has no dilemma – it should always be negotiated. We've always been there for that. That is why G17 plus, not thinking, not calculating on this subject, the only committee, whose sessions were held before the start of this debate, said that he would not vote in any form for this resolution. We didn't calculate with this subject. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no political points here. I'll have to disappoint you, there are no political points here. When they start from NATO to defend us from those who defended us in 1999, I'm really starting to worry. In me, as a citizen of Serbia, a bell rings out at the alarm. I'm starting, ladies and gentlemen, to worry not only about the safety and future of my children, but also about all the children of Serbia, I'm starting to worry about their lives. That's why there's no political points here. We need to make it clear here that we need to negotiate. As long as the life of any Serbian citizen is at stake, it must be negotiated. There are places to negotiate as long as any citizen's life is at stake. That's the G17 plus attitude, which will always remain in that attitude. That's why there's no deal on this, that's why there's no deal. We believe what we're saying. We believe that politics in Serbia should have a different face. We advocate that politics in Serbia has the face of life, not the face of death. Ladies and gentlemen, a few nights ago on the street, I saw a young guy wearing a "Freedom or Death" shirt. It's wonderful to believe in ideals. It is very easy to impose such contradictions and such ideals on young people. But death cannot be an ideal, ladies and gentlemen. The politics of fostering the cult of death in this country must stop. "Food your son and send him to the army" can no longer be mother ideology in Serbia. G17 Plus tells mothers, parents in Serbia, to feed their daughters and their sons with knowledge, to feed them with tolerance, love and to send them to sell their knowledge in the world market instead of rusty spoons, but not from Vancouver and Toronto, but from Leskovec or Subotica. It's only the national interest of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, today. That national interest is being advocated by G17 plus, and will always stand up for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6658	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milovan Radovanovic, and before him is entitled to replication by Mr Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would really like to warn my dear fellow citizen that she is not involved in manipulation. During the war, I was in Kosovo and Metohija. The fact that every tenth family had a deceased, someone who died in that war, is not true. It was a large number of our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, which is our honor and obligation to the state. In the unit I was in, there were 1,260 soldiers, four soldiers were killed by a NATO bomb, in Leban by a car, and a dozen soldiers were killed by Shiptara, by the iredentists, because they were waited and killed macholy, and they weren't from my unit. The data you have, obviously, are neither accurate nor accurate, I even think they're malicious. (Tomislav Nikolic: They are false. ) You have defined that, as an expert, you do not want to say that someone under some mental elements is irritated and that he may have certain diagnosis. I'm sure because your father had been a member of the CK Alliance of Communists for 30 years, the biggest SPS official, because he was 30 years head of the company, which he ruined, it's likely that these annoying factors worked in your cell... (President: Mr Cvetanović, these are data from private life, for God's sake and for God's sake. I warn you of the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... If someone calls the former regime all the time, if someone keeps saying that in 1990 many citizens were killed because of the former regime, he is likely to think about his father as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6660	Please, Mrs. Plassic, wait a minute. You can't get the right to a replica, but you can get the word by the Rules of Procedure. I warned the speaker not to continue his discussion in that tone. I ask all MPs not to discuss at this session whether there were more or less victims. Have a little respect for the victims. When it comes to data from private life, please refrain. I won't let that happen next time. Mrs. Plassic, here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6661	Of course I'm answering my business. Of course it's rude, the most severely injured member of 100. I have already warned from this pay phone, on another occasion, that the mention of our families is absolutely the lowest manner that can happen in politics. It's something that's absolutely below each level. Of course, I wouldn't comment on something like this at all if I were mentioned myself, but given the fact that my family was mentioned, I really have an obligation to say something that the people of Leskovci know very well. My father's been retired since 1990. He was never a member of the SPS, and I call on anyone who has the opposite evidence to bring him in. So my father was once a member of the Alliance of Communists, he was the director of the company, which in Leskovec worked very successfully until the 1990s, which the gentleman knows very well, what there is and evidence in Leskovec and we can always face them. In any case, the gentleman is now president of the Assembly and I'm sure he has data on the operation of wood companies in the period from 1990 to 1990. You must be confused. The company collapsed after 1990, in 1997 or 1998, and its business was significantly compromised. Fortunately, my father, as a reasonable man, has complete data on the condition of his retirement in 1990. For the sake of truth, I have to say this: when the company was sold, a year ago, a man who was director after him showed up at the auction, means a man who was ten years later, i.e. Between 1990 and 2000, he was the director of the company. So my father didn't show up as a buyer. My father, retired and as a man who has had nothing to do with politics for ten years, absolutely cannot be the subject of this House. As far as the victims are concerned, I fully agree with what Mr. President said, nor would I comment further.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6662	I would read Article 3, paragraph 100: "It is not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons." I'm sure we'll all stick to it. There is no need to single-out the parties, this applies to all MPs. Mr. Radovanovic, please, and let the MP Gordana Komic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the third day of the debate on the subject of the motion for a resolution on the ban on withdrawing or giving up on a lawsuit is the conclusion that there are two concepts here, two completely different ideologies. On the one hand, in Serbia, representatives of the political ideology of the new world order, ideologies of the creation of a nation, of a government, of the right to cruel force, of the one word of the ideology of globalism. The world's bearer of this ideology is the United States, more recently the challenger of about 250 armed conflicts, the conqueror of foreign territories, peoples and states, with the motive of using their natural resources, the perpetrator of terrible crimes in Korea, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, where there is a monumental skeleton with nearly 500 thousand human skulls, then Nicaragua, Honduras, Panama, Afghanistan, Afghanistan, Yugoslavia, Iraq, etc. The United States is the founder of a new form of imperialistic neo-fascist ideology. Supporting such behavior means supporting such ideology. The current foreign minister, during February, returning from prayer breakfast, said -- I support George Bush. An obvious element of such ideology is for us who goes to America for advice, one who wants to withdraw the suit against NATO and one who says Serbia has done ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, there is a policy in Serbia that respects human rights and freedoms, the rule of law, national identity, tradition, religion and customs, the rights of national minorities and co-operation with other countries and peoples. I believe, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that in this you recognize politics and views us in the Serbian Radical Party. On important national and national issues, we should not be placed on any side other than the protection of the interests of the state, the people and all citizens of Serbia. That, after all, is what the Constitution obliges us to do. As far as the proposal is concerned, the question is that someone must not and someone must remain on the case. We in the U.S.R. dare and encourage those who can't. It must not be dropped from the suit filed by the SRJ to the International Criminal Court on 29 April 1999 against France, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Great Britain, Canada and the United States for genocide, illegal use of force and acts against humanity committed during the bombing. Looks like someone here accepts that stronger can do whatever they want. The right of the stronger is not applied anywhere in the world. NATO member states used explosive funds of approximately 10,000 kilograms of reduced, or poored uranium, which has left lasting adverse effects on the plant and animal world in our country. Most children distracted by development are born after the bombing, more people die of cancer than before NATO aggression. The case is in Alexinac and the surrounding area, but also everywhere in Serbia. This is a conscience exam. The statement by Vuk Draskovic on the withdrawal of the suit is shameful. They say the proposal for this resolution is from Milosevic's time. Is the villa on Dedinj, which he received on a gift from Slobodan Milosevic, i.e. in Kostunica, on the street of Blagoja Parovic, number 17, the same from Milosevic's time? Article 33. The Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro says the Council of Ministers must respect the interests of members of the state community. Serbia's interest, as members of Serbia-Montenegro's state union, is being determined right here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A lawsuit against 10 NATO nations, if there were no grounds, would be ridiculous for them. Like this, it's important to be withdrawn, because it has an actual and legal basis. By withdrawing the lawsuit, we justify NATO's aggression against the SRJ. Otherwise, it would have turned out that there was no aggression at all. And part of Serbia and the SRJ territory has been occupied, now Serbia-Montenegro, Kosovo and Metohija, in Serbia since 5 October 2000, there has been a puppet regime of the United States, a total of about three thousand people have been killed, there have been major material destruction and damage to hospitals, schools, kindergartens, residential buildings, barracks and bridges in one word, large immaterial damages, expressed in human lives, and major material damages. Who'd be responsible for all that? The anti-Serbian lobby, headed by Joseph Biden, otherwise a friend of Boris Tadic, who visited America, finds guilt and responsibility in The Hague tribunal against the state and the people. For years, they can't do that in the case of Slobodan Milosevic, who symbolized the state at that time and time. How will they determine the guilt of Dr Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS? Is it just because he gave political speeches at the rally? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in NATO aggression, a large number of people were beastly killed. Because of them, their relatives and friends, we must not forget the criminal, beastly NATO bombing, just for bringing to power their listeners. The humanitarian disaster of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija in the Racak case since 15 January 1999 is not a reason for the bombing. After all, experts in various areas around the world, such as Francisco Vega, a well-known University of Barcelona professor, says America is responding to the creation of a great Albania. Or, University of Canada professor Michel Kosudovski, otherwise director of the International Centre for Globalisation Research, says the UN and America have funded terrorism in the Balkans and Kosovo and Metohija. Hans Lokwai, Germany, a former representative of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation in Kosovo and Metohija, said ethnic cleansing, genocide, and humanitarian disaster, and Racak, existed only in the construction of the United States, as an excuse for bombing the SRJ. Swedish military affairs expert, a general who was also a representative of the OSCE in Belgrade, says Americans have also invented genocide in Kosovo and Metohija only as an excuse to bomb the SRJ. We must not forget the cases of the Grdelic ravine, the Varvarn bridge, the Surduce, the small Milice Rakic, Sanja Milenkovic and others, the columns of the killed Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, the deaths of citizens in Nis at the market of cluster bombs, Alexinac, where they died on two occasions since the bombing on 5 April and 28 May, a total of 18 people. All of this is for them, Jamie Shea, George Robertson, whom Boris Tadic, then defence minister, awarded last November 27th last year with a large plaque of the Serbia-Montenegro Army, was collateral damage, and which he said at the time -- I am happy, NATO did a good thing in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a certain form of NATO aggression exists today. It has been implemented in various ways, primarily by the Slugeran, puppet exercise of representatives of the regime since 5 October 2000, and then by media indoctrination of Serbian citizens, the most television B-92, by the work of many NGOs, especially the Soroshe Foundation, such as the Closed Society Fund, the work of many religious sects, especially Sientologists, who entered our financial system, through some people, leaders, and especially one special interest financial organisation or group, by uncoupling warfare during and after NATO aggression, by doing material damage today. The example is the kidnapping of Sartide by the American Ju-es-tila for only $23 million, instead of $400 million, what Smederian Sartid really is worth. Then, by preventing the development of democracy and free formation of the will of citizens, as well as other means. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, once again, the fate of this lawsuit will greatly determine Serbia's fate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6664	Replica, Ksenija Milivojevic. Just so you know, no one mentioned you or your party or anyone from your party. You're looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6665	I have to look back on this fascinating exposure because it was extremely interesting, I listened very carefully to it. I want to ask what happened to the aliens, since we haven't heard them in this story. We heard about the world order, the shadow rulers, and the Scientologists, all kinds of stories we listened to.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6666	Please, which member of the Rules of Procedure, Miss Milivojevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6667	Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, because this is an insult, first of all, to the intelligence of every MP in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6668	You didn't give me a chance to take your word from you, it's okay, thank you. The word is Mrs. Komic, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6669	Ladies and gentlemen, my address to you as part of the proposed agenda, the adoption of a resolution on the ban on withdrawing the lawsuit against NATO countries, will be divided into three parts: the first, procedural comments, the second, on the subject of the resolution as a document proposed to the Assembly and, third, political assessments of the Democratic Party on the debate, which, I hope, is coming to an end tonight. Procedurally – the proposer was obliged to contribute to what the resolution said if he wanted respect and self-respect for the National Assembly. Looking at the proposing's faces, I see a surprise, because I already know they're talking about four thousand pages, and the promoter uses a word that, unfortunately, I can't use as a pay phone. So, the lawsuit to which the resolution is called is eight, type of lawsuits. This is one of them, against France. The name in the resolution, proposed, has nothing to do with the lawsuits brought to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. What the promoter can't stand is that he has to keep throwing, but at the beginning of my presentation, it's the need for a political assessment. The promoter corrects and says it's a proposal. With the right of the proposal, she reacts. So it also causes a political assessment. If I didn't know Serbian radicals, I'd say they're nervous about local elections, expecting it not to happen again or again what happened on June 28th. But, knowing Serbian radicals, I don't believe they would abuse the National Assembly session just to deal with the local election campaign, because the lawsuit that was filed in April 1992 is not being handled. The lawsuit does not exist in the resolution they gave to the Assembly for adoption. Why am I talking about these procedural reasons? Because it's all about procedural reasons, because all eight charges are like this. I have a lawsuit against France, against Belgium, Canada, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and the UK. Therefore, it is not against the United States and Spain because the Court declared itself incompetent on 2 June 1999. For these eight lawsuits, it is important to highlight the procedural failure made by the motion because, when we move to the second point of the procedure in the International Court of Justice in The Hague in autumn, a stenogram from this session of the Assembly can be accompanied as evidence, commentary and the position of what is the political majority or minorities, or will in Serbia. That's why I find it important to say that the proposer made a mistake at the agenda point, but that we agreed that this was about eight lawsuits filed on account of the legality of the use of force. That's what every lawsuit is called, it's typical and it only changes the name of the country it refers to, except it doesn't exist for the United States and Spain, for the reasons that the Court found irrefutable. What was the Parliament's president's obligation is that, before the session was scheduled, the Proposer undertakes to provide MPs with the subject of their resolution, because according to what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is dealing with, none of the MPs had to, in the nature of their work, be familiar with this lawsuit against France. The Committee that I chair, for foreign affairs, in co-operation with the services of the Assembly, will assume on its own that this material, which exists only in English, translates all eight lawsuits and comments, submitted by authorised representative Rodoljub Etinski and a stenogram from the procedural phase, until 3 May 2004, be available to both national and Serbian MPs. To know exactly what we're talking about here when we use hard and big words, and when we're trying to make one topic, which is both procedural and political, use and abuse, in accordance with our own political interest. That would be where the section relating to the procedural evaluations of what the Assembly is doing would end. Is the congregation in charge? We all agree on two things when it comes to this resolution, that the Serbian Parliament is not in charge. Even the promoter knows that the adopted resolution would not produce a legal fact. If you do not have a legal fact, then you are not in charge of this matter, as important as it is that we as the national representatives of the Serbian Parliament discuss the subject, but legal jurisdiction, we do not have formal jurisdiction. That's the first thing we agree on. The other thing that we agree on is that what I know is what the case is about, and the congregation can discuss whatever it is they want. It's a dangerous precedent. We had a similar precedent when we adopted that coat of arms and anthem could change and make recommendations, not a constitution. Without any cynicism, but with legal logic, and with respect for procedures as essential, I can suggest and recommend a recommendation on a new constitution, so who wants to apply it, how they want to apply it, to skip all that is procedural and formal steps in the adoption of the constitution and to recommend that Serbia has a new constitution. It is dangerous when we play the procedure, it is particularly dangerous when we do it in a way and with a subject, such as the ban on withdrawing claims against NATO countries. That's why the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia addressed the International Court of Justice in The Hague on 25 April 1999? Because you can sue the International Court in The Hague. Why she did not address The Hague Criminal Tribunal, which existed, where you sued private persons, and that is the key difference between The Hague as a court and the International Court of Justice. So you're suing the court of The Hague, you're suing private persons, you can't sue administrative units, you can't organise, you can't do anything but sue a private person in front of The Hague court. Why they haven't spoken, it's a matter of political assessment. When you address the International Court of Justice in The Hague in order to be able to participate in the process, the states must recognise or accept the jurisdiction of this court in The Hague. It's the phase we're in right now. So the lawsuit against the United States and the lawsuit against Spain has been removed from the International Court of Justice's list of cases in The Hague, by decision and order, which is called in the Statute of the International Court of Justice since 2 June 1999. Furthermore, on 3 May 2004, a preliminary hearing was held, where representatives of all eight countries attended. And you'll get that document on Serbian on the Serbian Parliament's website, so that at last, without cheating, lying, manipulation, and everyone else can learn what actually happened. Therefore, all countries requested that the International Court of Justice be brought to justice on 3 May 2004 without jurisdiction for an action brought by the SRJ on 25 April 1999 for these eight countries. What is the essence of the lawsuit that was filed on April 25th? The essence of the lawsuit is in the final paragraph of the lawsuit, requiring temporary measures to stop the bombing. A whole series of legitimate demands, here the only non-prosecution indentation is that the SRJ has accused all these eight countries of funding, training, providing weapons to the terrorist organisation of Kosovo Liberation Army or UCK, or the KLA, as it is called to us, is the second position in the lawsuit, and that's the only thing that's not mentioned here, I don't know why. Either you haven't read the lawsuit, or you don't want to mention that we've sued all these countries to finance, train, supply weapons to the Kosovo Liberation Army, but the mention so far has never been made. To the Court's reply, to seek temporary measures, or to stop the bombing, was the Court's call to all parties in conflict against conflict. As NATO's restraint seemed, we saw it from April 25th to June 10th, when the bombing was over. So there's been no speech since the abstention. My question, as a Serbian citizen, is - what were you waiting for with the lawsuit from March 24th to April 25th? If it's the essence of this lawsuit, which it is, and you can see it in the first position, illegal use of force, it was illegal on March 24th at 20.00 hours. Why didn't we address March 25th at 20.00 hours for illegal use of force? What were we waiting for? This is where we come into the politicization of this lawsuit, an obvious political assessment that it won't last. When it lasted a month, on a joint accident, then we turned to the International Court of Justice to stop the bombing after all. How did the bombing end? An event that does not like to be mentioned in the public of Serbia and an event that I can illustrate, thanks to the kindness and expertise of the Information Service of the Serbian Orthodox Church, each of us today received a map of Kosovo and Metohija, where they are, like the deed, drawn cultural and historical monuments. Why is this map good for illustration and why do I show it as an illustration of events, which does not like to be mentioned in the public of Serbia? Because here you have a celestial Serbia that seals Earth's Serbia. Kosovo and Metohija with five flags, France, Italy, Britain, the United States and Germany, and nowhere has the flag of the Republic of Serbia, nor with the coat of arms we adopted, nor without it. The Kuman agreement, which I know the proponent from his political assessment was against, as he was against the agreement later proposed, and Resolution 1244, all these documents are defeat, national, political and military. You can call it a lack of victory, you can call it an agreement, but when you don't have political authority and authority in your territory, when you don't have mechanisms to protect anyone and you don't have military or police force, then it's such a lack of victory, that it's fairer to talk about defeat. Why is it decided not to be a defeat, but a consensual solution to the conflict of high intensity? It is because of the earthly Serbia in which we all, hopefully, deeply believe and in which we want to invest, precisely because of the future that is ahead of us, and not because of the past in which, with different degrees of guilt, we have participated in one way or another, with awareness of what is our fault or not. All eight lawsuits were not dropped in 2001, 2002, or 2003, or 2004. We are now coming back to mixing procedural and political estimates on why this session of the Assembly. The promoter openly and clearly said it was Minister Vuk Draskovic's statement. So you have the procedural and political will, in which the abuse of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia began. A member of the Council of Ministers is being replaced in the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly. No one's ever stopped anyone from applying for the replacement of any minister for any reason. What was tried in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro failed. Why didn't it work, they know the MPs, they know the promoter, knows the one who wanted to take over Vuk Draskovic, but failed. Instead, you have a debate about a minister who cannot be replaced in this assembly because this assembly has not even chosen him, turning him into a debate about whether NATO bombing was justified. So, artificially created dilemma, just because we never really sat down and talked. What happened in this country between 1990 and 2000? We have one point in common, however different we look at it, but it's common. The point is June 10, 1999. Whatever you qualify, the policy that was led in 1998, 1999 or 1991, or in 2001, the point at which the Kuman Agreement was then signed, Resolution 1244 and the signed Ahtisaari-Cernomidin Agreement must be a common point for all MPs in this assembly. If we do not agree that this is a bad result for Serbia and that we are doing everything that can be fixed, then we will hardly reach consensus on all other issues, on various other issues, if we do not agree on this first and only one, on what is earthly Serbia today and what is the lack of victory in Kosovo and Metohija. Why move the debate on Mr. Vuk Draskovic to this assembly? You've noticed that I'm not talking about guilt, politics has a result and politicians have an obligation to assess, it's a matter of law and rights, not a political language. So the responsibility for it is borne by the right coalition. The lack of a common strategy, however much you are in coalition 125, 115 or 126, lack of a clear path where the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to lead, the lack of elemental communication between coalition members is a weakness seen and then you have this and this session of the Assembly. Which one of these benefits? Believe it or not, no one. Not even the voters you think we're talking to. We have repeatedly repeated that we want all of us to work together on the interests of the Serbian state, both in internal policy and foreign policy. Each of us has a vision, but I repeat, it would not be burning to sit down and talk about what is missing as a vision and as a strategy, except for the best among us, or Zoran Djindjic, what is missing for the vision and strategy, for the clarity that would be addressed to people in Serbia and together overcome the most difficult years that in transition, in a changing country, can survive. My wish is to help, both with information and facts, and to remind myself that the basic message from countries that have changed, the former single-party countries, the basic message from all these countries is – all the time we've been seeking democracy, we've wanted and we've dreamed about justice, and we've got the rule of law. It's very common in the vast expanse. Serbia is in an even harder position. We wanted justice all the time, and we're just building a legal state. The difference between justice and justice will also be seen through this complaint, which will be discussed in the autumn and will be decided on by the court's jurisdiction. My request and the president of the Assembly and the Assembly is that we try not to abuse the Assembly, and if we want to talk about strategies related to Serbia's development, then we do it through parliamentary clubs, at sessions like this or wherever, but we do it so that we know exactly who's talking about what. The Democratic Party will vote against the resolution for those procedural and clear reasons. We would like to reiterate that any attempt at political manipulation of this species will bring the least good to those who introduce it into the Assembly. It's the law and there's some justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6670	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, and then by MP Dejan Mikavica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although yesterday we extended the time allocated to MPs, or MP groups for discussion, given that always and most of the debates appear from the SRS parliamentary group, and we always sort of measure the time we have around when I need to go out for a pay phone, and this time I will try to cut as short as possible, so that all the SRS MPs who applied can come out and say a word. I'll start where Mrs. Comic left off. This morning in our parliamentary clubs we received a gift from the Holy Archaeological Synod of the Serbian Orthodox Church, a map, and the lady only showed, but in order to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, I will also have to read the accompanying letter that you ladies and gentlemen of the people have received. The Holy Archaeological Synod of the Serbian Orthodox Church says: "The Honored People's MP, today when he threatens to be part of our homeland, which is being torn away from us, we felt the need to give you a geographical map - the Serbian spiritual heritage in Kosovo and Metohija, where our heritage, i.e. 1,181 churches and churches, 113 monasteries and monasteries, 48 esophagus, 8 mentions of chapels and mentions of skeletons, and a total of 1,350 church buildings. There are also 534 old Serb cemeterys, 96 fortresses of old towns and 14 Serb castles. This is a deed to the country now located within the administrative borders of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. If the number of churches and monasteries is divided with the surface of Kosovo and Metohija, it can be seen that there is not a single rate without being avenged. Many of these buildings have been torn down long ago, and until our day, stone tracks and names have lasted. We're afraid that in the future, not only won't the building remain, but the names will be deleted. The majority of the people in Kosovo and Metohija, to the basis of the destruction of our heritage, even the stone relations, are modeling the foundations and erasing the names, so that there is no sign or significance left. On our map, 1,994 cannons are listed and all Serbian. There are no 37 new wounds, 37 broken churches in the March pogrom, to be added to another 107 churches and monasteries destroyed between 1999 and 2003. The sad number of destroyed saints has now been 144 since the arrival of international forces in Kosovo and Metohija. We know that as the most responsible people's representatives, these facts are not unknown, but it is our duty to allow you to present them to others in this way. "This I, on behalf of the SRS, represent to the citizens of Serbia these facts. No matter how short the time goes, I can't help but look back at something else. Today, in a discussion, replicating the MP of the SRS, Mr Arsic, Mr Aligrudic said a sentence that asked me to now say what I intended. He says Mr. Kostunica didn't let anyone go. Mr. Kostunica pardoned Fjori Brovini and Fjora Brovina, although convicted legally in our country, went to Kosovo and Metohija after two or three months. I will not attribute to Mr Kostunica those 1,300 terrorists who arrested the military and police during the aggression, brought to Serbia, in Serbian prisons sentenced by a first-degree verdict, and then Batic and Mihajlovic released it, and then the Supreme Court annuls the verdicts. Their cases have also gone with them and should return to re-determining the first-degree court in Kosovo and Metohija. None of them will ever be convicted again. The question is how many of them burned Serbian villages, Serb saints, and killed in March's savagery. The question of how many of them shot at children in Gorazdevec. The question is how many of them and now he's got a sniper pointed at a Serb in Kosovo. However, I must honor Mr. Kostunica and there is no room for any objection. As president of the SRJ, Mr. Kostunica pardoned one of the convicted terrorists. Namely, Bekim Kastrati was sentenced legally to 15 years in prison and was jailed in Nis. He did three years. Afterwards, after the democratic power arrived, Mr Kostunica, as SRJ president, pardoned Bekim Kastrati for 10 years. When Natasa Kandic, as his lawyer, took a solution to pardon the prison and when the prison warden and the prison clerk checked, Bekim Kastrati remained for another year to serve prison. Bekim Kastrati bitterly throws Natashai Kandic a solution to his face and says: go, tell him to write another solution. After 15 days in prison, another solution arrives, but not now the solution of 10 years of pardon, which would have some kind of legal logic, and then the pardon of 11 years, which would have closed that seal of a year that was missing. Mr. Kostunica is writing another pardon for a year. In the world justice system, there was no precedent, except for us, that the same man for the same work within 15 days would be pardoned twice. So much for whether Mr. Kostunica let go or not. Today, the Serbian Parliament is at its own waterhouse, to plead against withdrawing the suit or withdrawing the suit. I urge you, again, before you vote to look at this map sent to you by the Holy Archaeological Synod, then vote safely as you wish. So, either you'll be in favor of withdrawing the lawsuit or against withdrawing the lawsuit, and the third one's gone. It can't be – ladies and gentlemen, and today we're listening, and yesterday, so we're in favour of withdrawing the lawsuit – both virgins and pregnant women, it's not natural, it's impossible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if there were more responsibility and intelligence in selecting a person for the holders of the most important state functions, both in the government of Serbia and in the Council of Ministers, today there would be no need for this debate or for this resolution. Responsible people would get a responsible job, and the interest of Serbia and its citizens would be fully protected, and no moment would be questioned. The sunroof of Serbian and foreign and domestic policies began in fact that October 2000, when you burned and with various crisis headquarters rode Serbia, and there is no dilemma. No dilemma, DOS, this DOS, that DOS, you're all the same to me. A deoba function on the principle of rotten compromises and an agreed economy has led Serbia to a beggar stick. The foreign policy, which was led primarily by Svilanovic, when he forgave or withdrew the suit against Bosnia and Herzegovina, and continued now with Draskovic, designed, is literally his condescendingness, serviality, disenfranchised and destroyed. It's led us to the point where we don't actually have foreign policy and we don't have diplomacy. Everything that is asked of us, and without discussion, is offered and what no one asks for, starts with the delivery to The Hague, and here is the conclusion with the announcement of withdrawing the suit against those who bombed us in a senseless manner for 78 days. In front of me is a book called "NATO crimes in Yugoslavia", documents and evidence within a month -- from 24 March to 24 April. To drop off all other infrastructure facilities, I'm just going to bring out 324 schools, 86 homes of health, hospitals, health centers at this time was bombed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party will surely vote for this resolution, and on your conscience, on your conscience, how you will press the button today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6672	The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic. Replication of MP Momir Markovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6673	Let me explain some things. I see that some MPs from Jacques Shirak, as the biggest opponent, fell on Beki Kastrati, or as the Serbian language says, "from horse to donkey". The indictment against Jacques Shirak and Bekim Kastrati is, in many parts, identical. It was tried without a witness's hearing. Simply, all those manners that can't be called the manners of the rule of law. Gentlemen, if we want a rule of law, then that rule of law must offer justice for all citizens of that state, whether they are Serbs, Bosniaks, Albanians, or anyone else. As a result, a large number of charges against people who have been called Albanian terrorists, which they were not, have been withdrawn, i.e. they have been amnested just as the indictments have been dropped, i.e. the convictions against Jacques Shirak, Tony Blair, Bill Clinton, and who is already being sued.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6674	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6675	The MP misread me, I didn't say that Mr. Kostunica had no right to pardon, but he didn't have the right to do it twice within 15 days of the same man, for the same act of pardon. It's not in world law practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6676	The word has been made by the People's MP Dejan Mikavica. After him, the word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, fellow Prophetkovic took a word earlier, so I didn't have time to comment on several interesting statements and insinuations, which the MP from the Serbian Radical Party's list gave himself the right, or as an idea, to present here. The attack on Vojislav Kostunica, no matter what angle it came from, seems rather unusual if it comes from the Serbian Radical Party at the stage, in which it declares itself to be a party that particularly holds state and national interests. I think it was the best possible option, if you'd like to point that out as an argument and example, to exempt Vojislav Kostunica from that. But, of course, since I can't influence it, I would only appeal, when you're already doing it, to do it at an appropriate, parliamentary, intellectual level, so that you don't do it in a certain way, perhaps accidentally or spontaneously, and to humiliate the reputation of this assembly. It's my friendly, if you will, appeal. As for the agenda point, which we have dedicated ourselves to, for perhaps more or less reasons, in the previous days, I would start with what the proposer put forward in the opening statement, which is that of the majority in this assembly, if I have well remembered what was said then, it is not really expected to be openly and clearly spoken against the aggression of the NATO Pact, against the genocide that was then carried out - whether through the form of intent or through concrete misdeeds. Why not? Here, and on this occasion, if you allow, openly, from this place clearly, we are definitely telling you here in the Assembly and all citizens of Serbia that, at least as far as we are concerned in the Democratic Party of Serbia, we are openly and clearly condemning the aggression of the NATO Pact, which was carried out in1999. For years, as a criminal act of aggression against our people and our country. We say openly, and this occasion, not hiding at all, nor holding any secret, political intention that in this aggression, in this crime, which has been committed over our country, there is genocide or even misdemeanour. So, as you can see, it's not disputed, we condemn aggression -- both of us, and you who insist on bringing this resolution. According to this method of making a resolution or to such a degree, we too have certain reserves. So what's the big deal? It is disputed, perhaps I could say only in one sentence, and to be fully understood, which we have a different understanding than you, concerning the jurisdiction of the federal state, the state community or the state, as I like to say -- Serbia-Montenegro and the jurisdiction of the Member State - Serbia, the Member States of the state of the state. It's actually the only thing we're arguing about. There's no other dispute. It is interesting, however, that what the promoter said, also in that opening part of his proposal's reasoning, to vote for this resolution when he said that those who do not vote will anger Serbian citizens without pardoning the masters. I'll tell you right now, quite frankly, we have no intention, we have no idea that we are angry with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But we also don't want, at any cost, to hand in to Serbian citizens ahead of local and regional elections, believing that this will achieve a better result. That is what I say as a representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia in Novi Sad and Vojvodina, who has always led a prominent state-of-the-art, national, democratic policy and who has the right to say so here. That's what all those in Vojvodina and Novi Sad, who know that policy, which I represent myself, have no reason to doubt at all. So, the only thing that's different about jurisdiction is that we're different. We differ as far as who actually represents a servant and who represents a master. Perhaps we can defend our national and national interests, sometimes more successfully, in one moral way, depending on how capable we are. But, in any case, one thing is important -- when we speak in this context of the servant and the master, about these issues that have been mentioned here and pulled out -- that we need to find something, as far as possible, as a people who are quite shaken by all these events in the previous decade, one framework, one context of real policy, within which we will try to achieve what is state and what is national interest. And let's not argue that we have been wronged enormously, that crime and aggression over our country has been devoid of the ear and standard of international law, that it has been brutal, that it has meant and brought many material sacrifices, and that, after all, at least that part of the damage that can be compensated, which is the material part, for no one is disputed. Those other victims, which can no longer be compensated, replaced, we may no longer be able to talk about it. It may be said that, in the context of all these problems related to the resolution debate, it should be clear in some things. That may be the essence of all these discussions we've been having here. Here I will repeat: neither the suit is withdrawn nor the crime is forgotten. We in Novi Sad can't forget the crime, all of us, and if I wanted to, for what psychological reasons to suppress it, because every day it reminds us of the building of broken television, bombed Refinery, destroyed and unrenewed bridges, thanks to the authorities in Novi Sad, the Democratic Party and the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. That incompetent authority was not able to do that either - to repair, at least those wounds opened to heal, in such a way as to legitimize themselves as the responsible authority in Novi Sad. So these are some things that are not at all controversial. In the end, and memory, it's not just about 1999. You know, the Novosadians remember everything. What they remember is something over literature, not just through their life experience. I mean, here and there, the bombing from a century and a half ago, when some of the other Soldate fortresses bombed the New Sad Varosh and leveled it to the ground. We also remember this bombing, which was not justified and cannot be rationally justified. When we have all these things in mind, and we in Novi Sad, we Novosadians, who do not forget, remember very well, like all other citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia, come to look back at what this practically means about the functioning of institutions in this country, i.e.. how the most important institutions in this country are related to this issue. The government of the Republic of Serbia has openly and clearly come forward with the view that the lawsuit will not be withdrawn. If we add to that some kind of my personal and conviction from my fellow MPs that the International Court of Justice in The Hague will come out to meet a justified lawsuit filed by our country, then I really don't see why we should continue to conflict on these issues, to reason. Finally, I would say that, regardless of the statements by Vuk Draskovic, given from the foreign minister's post, they have an objectively significant political weight, they must not and should not be a future occupation of this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6678	The People's Messenger has the word of the Prophet, the Prophet of Radeth, and then the Messenger of the people, Milorad Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been discussing on the third day a motion for a resolution by the Serbian Radical Party on the ban on withdrawing or dropping the suit filed by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. For the sake of the public, I will read the first and third positions of the motion for this resolution: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia prohibits all state bodies of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly and the Council of Ministers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro from making and participating in decisions that would result in the withdrawal or withdrawal of the suit brought by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to the International Court of Justice in The Hague against the NATO Member States of the damages suffered during the bombing in 1999. All acts or actions taken contrary to points 1 and 2 of this resolution are void and do not commit to the Republic of Serbia, and are considered to be the betrayal of the Republic of Serbia and the most serious crime against the people being punished as a serious crime." I ask you colleagues who plead that you will not vote for this resolution, what is so terrible about this text. What hurts so much? What are you afraid of, ladies and gentlemen, unless you have any intention of letting Vuk Draskovic make this high treason move? What do you mean, in the discussions, "we're against withdrawing the lawsuit, and we're not going to vote for the resolution"? You transfer Serbian Radical Party MPs to try, as we do, through this resolution, to get political points. Well, it won't be like that. Of course, we're politicians. We do everything to please the citizens of Serbia. But you do it one other way. You, who here for ten minutes, speak individually about how the lawsuit should not be dropped, what the consequences of NATO bombings were, etc., in a semi-lous and silent manner, say "we will not vote, we will not vote in favour of this resolution". That's how you try to cheat, who knows which way, Serbian citizens. I call on you to make it clear and loud that you support the idea of withdrawing the lawsuit, because all those who do not vote for this resolution are simply that attitude. Dear colleagues, you do not have the nerve to oppose Vuk Draskovic, some because he is their party president, some because he could endanger their position in power and some in the name of former love. I'm telling you that none of these reasons can and should be your idea of leadership to not accept the Serbian Radical Party's proposal to vote this resolution. You have no right to forgive all the horrors and to forget all the horrors that we have suffered under NATO bombs for 78 days at the time of this terrible NATO aggression. You act like this because you assume that Vuk Draskovic will do what he announced, that he will do what Goran Svilanovic did in time without asking anyone. Of course, Vuk Draskovic can expect that. It can be expected that, one day, he goes abroad for his own opinion, comes back here and informs the Serbian public that he dropped the suit, and that you who vote against this resolution say that it is not possible, that he should not have done so, that you were not informed, that we have already heard everything from representatives of the current government. For us, it will be no surprise, but it will be a terrible defeat for Serbia's national interest. I repeat what my colleagues in the SRS have said – how many reasons we must ban all competent authorities from withdrawing the lawsuit filed by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia against NATO members. You must not and no one has the right to forget the Rakic family from Batajnica, to forget the Milenkovic family from Varvarin, to forget many families to whom NATO bombings have left lasting consequences. I want to point out that the pain of these families is equal to the pain of a family whose members died in the Ibaric Master's Office, so no one is asking to withdraw the suit, but is asked that the judicial verdicts, which the Supreme Court ruled, be returned to the beginning and discussed. So you're doing it yourself. You're performing scrawnyly. You care about saving yourself in power. Now, first of all, I am telling the representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia, who accept that they are being blackmailed by Vuk Draskovic, the Serbian Renewal Movement, to be blackmailed by parties that are political dead, such as those from G17, who are in this assembly for the first time, for the last time and never again, who cannot save even the fact that they are stealing ID cards in Varvarin, and on the basis of stolen ID cards, they join people in that interest group. Do not pass on the nonsense that Radislav Stojanovic tells, which says that we should give up this lawsuit, because we may lose the dispute, and it goes on to say, "This gesture can make the West happy and welcome." This is the most stupid thing ever said. No normal man could say that. Also, you don't have to say that this assembly is not in charge of this resolution. Gentlemen, this motion for a resolution was written by law experts. Be assured that this proposal is in accordance with the Constitution and that it is in accordance with the Constitutional Charter. Don't talk, keep your attention about how someone else is guilty and not NATO for bombing Serbia. Read the book "Bombs of Belgrade", Martti Ahtisaari wrote. On page 22 of the book, he wrote that Serbia had to be bombed because it was the only way to meet the opposition at the time to remove the current government. I would like to stress that in this resolution, what has also been carried out through discussions is not basic and is not only a material damage priority. We want to show, by insisting on this lawsuit, the truth about Serbia, not what the president of the assembly tried to tell us, how we once received these processes in history, or how many percent we did not know. There is no money, gentlemen, I hope you agree with that, which can compensate for the pain of the Rakic family and other families of similar fates. That's how you look at this resolution. It is much less a mistake when we in this House are passing some law and when we pass a bad law, and when that law produces negative consequences. The law is living matter. We can always suggest changes and additions, correct a mistake. But if this resolution is not passed and God forbids it, the mistake for Serbia can never be corrected again. That is why we in the SRS have proposed this resolution, expecting that the congregation majority will accept its adoption. We have seen this as an obligation both before God and before the people, and you who do not vote for this proposal will ask forgiveness from both God and the people, and from your conscience. Of course, that applies to those who have it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6680	Right to replication, mentioning the name, MP Goran Svilanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6681	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like to thank Mrs. People's Parliament, who spoke earlier, because mentioning my name actually gave me the opportunity to explain something that was mentioned yesterday by MPs from other parties on several occasions. So, you just said Svilanovic dropped the suit against Bosnia, not asking anyone. Since it was similarly said by the representatives of the DSS MPs during yesterday, I want to explain to you and them. In an exposé that was submitted to the then federal assembly of the SRJs, it was announced. Point two, the decision was made by the federal government, not me personally. Three, in the federal government, the DSS ministers are sitting at the moment. It's just a replica of what they said two days ago. Mr. Zoran Shami, Minister at the moment, the president of the SRJ personally briefing and approved. So much to know the order, how some otherwise difficult decisions, which are discussed years later, as is the case today, are made, with discussion and agreement, at least within the government. And it is time for such decisions, after that, to be shared within those who have made decisions, who have done so. Of course, this government has made good and bad decisions. I'm talking about the federal government two years ago. Of course her decisions can be discussed. I claim it was a good decision, but I also claim it wasn't a personal decision, as it was tried here to say a few minutes ago, but two days ago. It's just not fair in politics. When people in one coalition have to work well to reach an agreement on whether or not they work together on one thing and accept the consequences of the decisions they make or play a series of water ministers, such as at this point with Vuk Draskovic, whom his coalition partners, putting on the agenda this point, actually want to criticise. It's not a controversy between you and us opposition parties. It's just half-memics within the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6682	Thank you. The word is made by MP Miroljub Albianic. Once again, I remind you of the basic legal provision. This agenda has been put by 84 MPs, regardless of which party they belong. It's a legal obligation. The session's timing has been scheduled by the president of the assembly, which is his obligation. Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6683	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I note that during this discussion we are most concerned with the consequences, and we are forgetting the causes. This subject we're talking about isn't without cause. It has often happened in our near and distant past that what has become of reason, industriousness, honesty, domestic relations towards home and state, to be torn down by stupidity, negligence, thieving or actions that result from a sick desire for power. Wise politicians are able to jump both through external influences and internal troubles, and real leaders are able to save people and the state at a given time. It is true that in 1999, we were brutally and arrogantly attacked and bombed. It is true that there was no decision of the Security Council to attack, but it is true that Resolution 1244 was made at the end of the bombing. It was her. For the sake of peace, the use of force has not produced good results anywhere. In such a situation, however, we often forget about a non-democratic regime, which, by its action or inaction, has contributed to the collapse of such a force on our land. This isn't about political parties. This is about the autocratic way of ruling and the concentration of power in a single man, or if you want a woman. One man decided on behalf of all of us about war and peace. That's not good. Not that it's not good, it's devastating. The best description of that time is the title of the book Slavoljub Djukić "He, she and we". Today we have a resolution that the G17 Group of MPs will not support. Actually, we'll be against it. This resolution cannot be corrected, for through the ranks it carries out the spirit of the near past. Is there a word to be heard again, a betrayal? I appeal to the MPs to leave such artificial divisions behind. In the benches of the G17 Plus Group, MPs who were mobilized in 1999: Dragan Petrovic, Vladimir Milankov, Goran Jaksic, reserve officers Dr Maric, Marko Krstin and my little one. I don't think it's polite to activate that kind of division again. I know that in other parliamentary groups the same people who had the same feeling in those days, those months. I must remind you, since I said that the whole bombing was contributed by a single policy within the country, as it says in a list written in October 1998, when the free word in Serbia was almost unheard. The authors of this text, of which unfortunately one is not among us today, say: Bekrijski has squandered everything that Serbs in this century have created, state and national territories. In the Western military alliance, the status of allies from two world wars has been lost, the reputation of state and nation. We've been expelled from all international institutions. The European identity of Serbs has been destroyed. We have withdrawn from the ethnic territories of Croatia and Bosnia. The nation was forced into a complex of war losers and the last guardian of European communism. A planly reputation for all Serbian institutions has been destroyed, to mention the university, the academy, the judiciary, the media, parliament, the government. That concentration of power I spoke of did not allow institutions to carry out their work properly. So the answer to that and that policy was October 5th. And this resolution, unfortunately, is a transparent attempt to rehabilitate some of the politicians of that time, and that, unfortunately, is not possible. It is clear that October 5th brought the value of a democratic society and that's when democracy in Serbia got its foundation. G17 Plus struggles to gain full importance and true value in Serbia. We're influencing serious state policy. We advocate that every institution in the country be stronger than any individual. As far as foreign policy is concerned, our diplomacy today must be at the height of the task. Individual statements must be an integral part of the state strategy, and the state strategy today is to join the European Union and the Partnership for Peace. Five years of the idea of G17 plus is five years of idea of entering the European Union and putting Serbia into the family of European peoples, as it truly deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6684	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Goran Paunovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger is Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6685	I suggest that we get a little more power and continue our work until the debate is over, so that we don't enter the fourth day of the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6686	Thank you. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the proposal to continue the work until the debate on this point and the vote is completed. Of course, the vote will show if we have a quorum. I put Mr. Paunovic's proposal to vote. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. For 93, against 9, it did not vote 72, out of 174 MPs. The proposal was accepted to extend time to the end of the debate. The People's Messenger, Paja Momchilov, has the word, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6687	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here, we have been discussing this very important topic for the third day. I think it's very good that we've had this debate, although we've heard a lot of different opinions. If someone wanted to follow this debate closely, he could conclude that there were certain issues that were constantly emerging and they could have come to this debate – first, a lawsuit against NATO countries that carried out an act of aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which was openly represented by the SPO parliamentary group. Of course, the argument they used was largely naive. We can find evidence today in our two provinces. If you look at the situation in Kosovo now, you can see how much the situation has improved when it comes to the Serb minority in Kosovo in the presence of the international community. You also know well what the promises were that when the international community takes matters into their own hands, what will happen in Kosovo and in the country. On the other hand, if you look at Vojvodina and what someone has already said in the previous debate that we have in this Vojvodina today, although we can't all see it, a big problem for the Hungarian national minority and this problem is starting to be internationalized today. You can see all of this, how much you can trust some kind of verbal promise from some god-awful representatives of Western civilizations. On the other hand, we have one position, which the G17 plus group advocated, that this lawsuit should not be withdrawn at this moment, which means that in some future times it should, so it can somehow be reequaled with that first attitude. Next, we've heard here that there's no real chance of getting this lawsuit. Then, that the Serbian Parliament does not have the authority to discuss this, and we have also heard interesting things that we citizens are actually guilty of the aggression that has been committed to our country. It's a good thing Mr. Miniæ came out and said we were kneeling in Rambuje. It was immediately referred to counterargumentation that we had not begun to kneel in time but had to do so much before, and then we would not experience this fate as we had experienced it. I know that the debate has been delayed, that this is not of interest to this subject and the sacrifices this country has experienced in NATO aggression for the vast majority of MPs, and I will try to answer three questions in my presentation. First, why is this resolution due today? Secondly, what are the reasons that require this resolution to be adopted? Third, I will be free to try to say whether NATO aggression, committed to our country, was an aggression? Of course, I'll say that from a doctor's point of view. First, today we are entering the fifth year of NATO aggression and no wonder why these voices appear that we should withdraw our suit. There are clear reasons, time heals and forgets is what settles everything, forgets reconciliation and enemies, and someone thought that the moment is now, that the wounds are healed, that time has done so and that it should be with something like this and that it should go public, clearly, because neither that tribunal, the quasi-sud in The Hague, who judges Milosevic and other citizens because of the guilt and genocide, until today, after many years, has established what he initially claimed. Next, we now have a collapsed state community called the community of states. We have the Constitutional Charter and we have the Council of Ministers. We have a country that the world doesn't know, a god-awful state, where you have a state with two economic systems, with two coins, where the issue of human rights is delegated to state communities. The most controversial story in the whole quasi state is the very institution of the Council of Ministers. Look who is sitting there – Mr. Vuk Draskovic, Mr. Ljajic, Mr. Davinić and Mr. Marović. What's wrong with these people? The problem is how many voters are behind the political options they represented. Yeah, someone's gonna answer me, it's formally a legal chosen body, but it's not a legitimate body. These people, here since 2000, for the second time, we have the same situation, the people of the minor parties, are taking key positions, where they decide on very important state issues. How does that happen? It happens with vectors. Today, this vector is the Democratic Party of Serbia and Mr Kostunica, which brings people from the minor parties to key positions in society, and what is the result, Serbian citizens know well – a collapsed economic system and the collapse of the state and the state community. It should also be discussed whether the Serbian Parliament has the right to discuss this and whether it should be responsible for withdrawing any lawsuits or not? Please, in a quasi state like we have today with a Council of Ministers, I think we'll all agree on two things. The holder of the highest sovereignty is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, I think most of them will agree that in the social division of government, there is a little more right to the Assembly than to the executive authority. Then I think the most legitimate right in this assembly is that, when no one is already considering a referendum, when we are not going to solve matters of national concern with a referendum, we delegate it to the right-wing representatives of the people who have delegated here. Let me just list the tax reasons that led us to believe that this lawsuit should not be dropped at all. First, legal reasons. They're listed, and I won't read them. But for our gentlemen of the Europeans, I have to make 2-3 quotes -- on March 27, 1999, when the violent, brutal and cowardly aggression of the NATO Pact began, "Mond" French brings an article from Max Gallo's pen, a historian, who says, "I am deeply scandalned by NATO's blows, but it should not be maintained just by an emotional reaction. This is the first time since 1945 that a sovereign country has been attacked. And the attack was organised by a group of NATO forces, led by the United Nations, whose function prevents conflicts. By marginalising the rights of the United States Security Council, they act as hyperforces that ignore international law. "A year after that, the prominent Israeli newspaper "Haarec" writes like this -- the way NATO committed aggression last year to the SRJ is very similar to the crime of Hitler's politics in the country. It says historian Anat Peri, in the text "Let the Truth Be Heard", published today in the influential Israeli list "Haarec". I'm not going to list you now a bunch of other opinions of international experts, lawyers, law professors, who share these opinions, but you Europeans, those who say you should work with the world, please hear the voice of these other citizens of the world from the world community, who are and how competent they are to talk about this. The other reason why we need this to go away is because of political reasons. Why? Because we need to prevent further deterioration and collapse of the state and full acceptance of colonial status. Again, I recommend to you Europeans that you read Alexander Zinov and his book "The Great Strike", where it is explained in detail and where you will be able to inform yourself of all this. The third reasons are moral. They don't give us more than a thousand dead and a few thousand wounded to give it up. You can say it's political marketing and it's a shame to repeat it. We'll repeat it to you, it's true, moral people will know whether it's political marketing or whether it's our duty to honor it. It's patriotic and benevolent reasons, too, that tell us not to give up on this. We heard from a young colleague here that she gave us a definition of what patriotism is, so she said, patriotism is a desire to be good to the people and to the state. It's not patriotism. Two different categories of patriotism are idolatry. Patriotism means love of patricium, homeland, patriotism means love of race or people. How can it be shown? It can be shown verbally, with a story, but it's not enough. He confirms himself with works, and in the scale of the work, the ultimate work is to show such a sacrifice, and the sacrifice of life and health is supreme in that scale of value, and that's patriotism, and that's patriotism, and that's patriotism, and that's what needs to be known. Let me only be allowed to explain the third - why I consider NATO aggression to be genocide. Seventy-eight days and all that's been going on here has resulted in us having an ecocid over our country, that 15 declarations that speak of environmental protection have been broken. We have here been bombarding with radioactive weakened uranium, and I pray that it is clearly said here -- this bombing by these means is genocide and it has left a mark on our people's health, and that and today it destroys that health, and not only destroys it, it leads to the biological disappearance of this people. Someone's gonna tell me - you said it well, come on prove it. In a minute, I'll try to prove it to you. Please, 25,000 victims of Gulf War veterans paid with their heads for various diseases, cancers, leukemia and other diseases caused by the effects of weakened uranium. There's a secret report, Professor. Pryce from Middlesex University and Professor Tibella from London University. They found that the 16 people they questioned immediately after the war had been contaminated. The four were Serbs from Bratunc, where this ammunition was shot, and 12 were Albanians. Of these Albanians, one was a baby, and four were women. All found contamination and confirmed, and it's a secret report hidden from this people and from the international public. Please, in 1991 and 2000, the population of central Serbia and Vojvodina was reduced by 78,000, although some 380,000 refugees moved into this area during that period. Had it not been for refugees, Serbia would have had 460,000 people less in 11 years. In fact, more deaths in Vojvodina every year than since 1989, and in central Serbia since 1992, with more deaths than live births being 6,600 in 1992, in 2002, 25,000 died more than they were born in this country. So this country has a white plague, we're disappearing from this space, we're biological losers. Now somebody's gonna tell me -- what does that have to do with NATO bombing? Now I'm only going to direct you to one more piece of information. At the Serbian Academy of Science24. The "Medicinal Iquality of Life" and the published publication "Reproductive Health of the People of Serbia 1989 and 2001" were held in June. Academik Vojin Sulovic, who led the Inter-departmental Committee on Biology and Human Reproduction, conducted a study with gynecologists and obstetricians of Serbia and proved unequivocally that the number of female genital cancer patients was increased, that more children were born in this country with anomalies and died due to anomalies. It's unequivocal data. Put this with each other in context. I claim that NATO aggression, as well as criminal NATO sanctions in the previous period, contributed to the destruction and genocide of the Serb people. I ask the Europeans to come out and deny this, say this isn't true. In the end, Lefonten said a long time ago, "Princess of the Little One, let no such misery befall you, that mighty kings may save your thefts, for when you drag them into your charms, and let them enter your land, then know that great evil awaits you." And as the dragon Jova Jovanovic said, I have ended it: but no nation has crawled to the happiness of the people, neither will they from now on. Know that too, Europeans.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6688	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miodrag Djidic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Giddyup.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6689	Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, since we have already set out on the third day of discussion on this subject, I will be very brief, since our views have already been said by previous DS speakers, I will just repeat some of the views that we all agree with, of course, I believe the good majority in this assembly. First, we feel that this congregation is not competent to discuss this subject and that it is a mistake to have it on the agenda. Those who advocate the strengthening of the state community seem to be doing the opposite in this way, or in violation of the unity of the state community. That's contrary to Article 19. The Constitutional Charter and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, though SRS MPs proved that it was in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Second of all, we're not in the mood to drop the charges. That's right. And if we had been there, we could have done it in the previous period, when we had a majority in this congregation. This did not occur to us at the time, as we do not now, because we believe it is contrary to the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we are absolutely in favour of keeping the lawsuit in force and discussing it by the International Court of Justice. We will not vote for the resolution today, for the simple reason, because that is what I was talking about first, and that is how we would violate the Constitutional Charter and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and we do not want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6690	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the Messenger Branislav Blazic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6691	When SRS MPs expected that, behold, at last around one point in the agenda we could agree, there was a problem from that story when those two chickens were running away. That one said, I'm going to make another lap so I don't turn out to be an easy woman. That's the whole point of this story. Unfortunately, there is no unity, and the subject is known, clear, simple, and what one speaker said, to understand the problem requires knowledge and intelligence at the level of preschool age. However, we have a problem that some state officials have broken away from both the state and the government, and from the party, and who knows what they've given up and turned away from, and by their direct statements, practically, provoked the need and were the direct cause to consider something that is generally known. It's common knowledge that no one has the right to withdraw this lawsuit. What is used as an argument in these days before the elections? We had a chance to listen for two days. A large empty repertoire of arguments. The arguments are based on the fact that those who made those arguments did not read the books. That's the basic problem since the DOS came in, that ignorance and some other flawes represent themselves for great virtues. At least 50 books are familiar to me, and there are probably several hundred, but perhaps even thousands of books, which have been published in connection with NATO intervention, aggression, attacks and genocide that have been committed against the Serb people. Most of them have been published abroad. What is worth, DOS representatives, such as and metastasised, and here you now get Karic, a Canadian citizen with spare Serbian citizenship. The DOS metamorphosis is obviously the media destiny of Serbia and the Serb people. As an argument for that second round, so as not to be called, it is said, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not competent to adopt such a resolution. The resolution is, above all, a general act, but primarily a political act with which MPs express their political stance. What do they base their attitude on? In the interests of the Republic of Serbia and of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, on the provision of the Constitution on the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, if you really need to list further, as a legal basis, see also the provision of Article 130. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where the National Assembly is authorized to produce declarations, resolutions and other general acts. We made a similar resolution a few months ago. We were in charge. And today we're in charge. Some who experience great frustrations, and they come from the moment of the signing of the Belgrade Agreement, and frustration is caused by DPS and one Misko Vukotic, trying to impose frustration on us here. Apparently, they care about the state community. And if they had cared about the state community, then it wouldn't have been the state community, but it would have been a well-organized Federation. Like this, no confederacy, no Federation, and basically nothing. They're worried about it. Let's remember the days when the Belgrade Agreement was signed, and seven of them immediately said, we don't know what we signed here. The day after tomorrow, they set out to tear down that community of state. This Constitutional Charter requires us, as the National Assembly, because through us indirectly citizens exercise sovereignty, to take care of the interests of the Republic of Serbia. In this resolution we express a political stance, we warn, because it is time to warn. It's dangerous. The wolf Draskovic exploded like a test balloon. He was preceded by Boris Tadic. He began to announce that there was a possibility of withdrawing the lawsuit. No one can do that, no one has a right. Then, in that repertoire, a retired professor appears, as a legal counsel, who says he should back down, we will lose the dispute. Tell me, if you have a lawyer, so if a lawyer publicly announces before the search starts that you will lose your legal dispute, what would you do with a lawyer like that? You'd kick him out. What would you do with a lawyer who doesn't use the main means of proof during the trial? You would have prosecuted him because he violated your interests. Who has the right to allow Vuk Draskovic and his like, and that ideological matrix, which has its genes from 1990 to today, to do so. And the genocide of Serbs has not been committed, it is not finished, it began in 1990, but it is still going on. So I don't repeat my views, so I don't quote books, and in every library you can get the book of a man who doesn't like SRS, it's Zoran Petrovic-Pirocan. He wrote a book called Destroy the Serbian Virus. The book has a second title, and it's called "The Contributions to the History of Democracy, Tolerance and Speak of Love". It's like this, Pope John II told President Clinton about one appearance in Denver: "You should bomb Serbs. "Jacques Chirac, in June 1995, was published by the media -- Serbs are a people without law and without faith, a people of bandits and terrorists. It says - Serbs, not Milosevic, Jankovic, Petrovic, but Serbs. All these messages are sent to the entire Serbian Corps, in a populist sense, to all citizens living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, as far as Serbs are concerned, it is one sick people -- General Jacques Kot, which is a statement from June 1997, former UNPROFOR commander. Paul Jackson, editor of a famous list, says Serbs trade with the human organs of their victims in order to secure money for their war, should damn well bomb Belgrade. A friend of the European Movement in Serbia, longtime US Ambassador to Belgrade Lawrence Iglberger and state secretary of one of the administrations in these years of our crisis, he said -- Serbs are not particularly smart, Serbian children will no longer laugh. Let's see what they say next, those who brought DOS to power. Klaus Kinkel, on 27 May 1992, announced "the Serbs should be thrown on their knees". "Stop Serbs immediately, forever" - Margaret Thatcher, May 4, 1994. Bosiljka Misetic, vice-president of the Croatian government, said in August 1995, "Croatia does not want people who belong to another people to live in it." A great friend of Democrats, Srda Popovic: "There is no peace until Serbia is defeated militaryly," October 1994. Jacques De Lor, President of the European Commission: "The root cause of the conflict is the ideology of ethnic cleansing, which was restored by Mr Cosic, president of Serbia, who published the Memorandum in 1990." It is said this way: "At the same time, Bosnian Serbs have always been just a gang of robbers and murderers for us," Johan Fric, director of a Vienna daily list. Josip Brodski says this: "Serbia is no doubt an aggressor, it should be forced by the United Nations resolution to bear the whole burden of reparation", 5 May 1993. Meanwhile, to remind you, Bosnia and Croatia filed lawsuits against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia at the US-Germany address. A great actor and friend of our Europeans, Peter Justinov: "The Serbs are a two-dimensional people, with a tendency to prosaclysm. Animals use their resources much happier than these perverse creatures, whose belonging to the human race is in great delay." That's the guy who brought DOS. Dieter Kluge, professor of the University of Germany, in 1997, gave one statement: "I propose that Serbian children be banned from schools from learning Serbian national poetry." Gashi listened to that. Your friend Tomislav Mercep: "Unfortunately, I did not kill all Serbs", November 1995. He's not on charges at all. He's the winner of the Homeland War. Helmut Cole, the one who helped our Marxist, "Let the Serbs pass in their own smell." The statement was made by Mr. Cole. It's been published everywhere. James Baker: "We will wage a war against Serbs -- diplomatic, economic, political, propaganda and psychological," a statement issued in June 1992. Bill Clinton: "Serbians conduct terror and rape Albanian children," a statement released on 25 April 1999. On French television, on TV "Horizont", a TV video "NATO Destroyer" was broadcast in April 1999. Let me also point to a peacemaker named Bernard Kouchner, who in March 2000, before leaving Kosovo definitely made a famous statement: "We had nine Serbs killed last week, this week eight. It's a clear progress." What best reflects why we're supposed to share here about something that's generally known and widely accepted in the people, that's your great friend James Shay's statement in March 1999, which says, "The Serbs need to be calmly bombed, because they'll forget everything quickly." This point is needed so you don't forget it. The genocide of the Serb people is not a done act. The NATO Pact is an organization that someone used to be a criminal association, and because of those who object to point 3. The motion for a resolution, I would just point out, read what is written in Article 51(3). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is politically characterised as an act of betrayal. Be assured, whoever makes the decision, whoever participates in making the decision, activates, influences and otherwise contributes, not only to withdraw or give up this lawsuit, but also to reduce the quality of the representation of the suit, which Tibor Varadi and this new team is in charge of the Sorosevo organisation, then know that these are acts of treason. If that were the case, Vojin Dimitrijevic changed his mind, chief Natasha Kandic, so he said, "The suit should not be dropped, the suit must not be withdrawn. The International Court of Justice has regulations to apply, the rules are clear. "It is not up to their will to apply this, remember, that it is dense and that this authority is conditioned because they brought her to power, to withdraw the suit. The withdrawal of the lawsuit is euthanasia. We're not for euthanasia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6692	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic. Let the People's MP Dobrica Jankovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Bliss!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6693	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very serious state issue ahead of us. It's a matter of responsibility, honor and conscience. All those NATO lawyers, who today, yesterday and the day before yesterday, have advocated to withdraw the lawsuit, I warn that sooner or later they will find themselves in front of their personal safety. When Nikola Pasic received an ultimatum from Vienna, and many historians believe it to be the best move of our diplomacy, he rejected any responsibility for the assassination in Sarajevo, accepted part of the ultimatum, but said, "We cannot accept as a people something that invalidates our national dignity and our state sovereignty." Mr. CountSvorca, who wrote about Nikola Pasic, said in an interview, "Did you know what was waiting for Serbia afterwards? "Pasic said, "Yes, but we couldn't have done it differently." It was state diplomacy, Serbia was then a state and Serbia created a state. Today, this is no diplomacy, and neither is the state. Many countries in Europe have their own internal problems; France has Corsica, England has northern Ireland; and other countries have their own problems. But these are national problems within one state, which has solid foundations. We don't have the foundations of this country, we have more problems with our own country than with other states. What is the basis for this resolution? I guess it's a clear basis for all -- breaking international law, brutal aggression, genocide over one nation. What's the occasion? The cause is one statement, someone says undosed, this is about a statement by the minister of diplomacy. You can't talk about a statement that we can't comment on here. We need to comment on this. That is not what Baba Dunka said at the market, but a man who is a member of the Council of Ministers and whose statement, in normal states, implies a statement of diplomacy and a statement by the country, a statement by the Council of Ministers. The foreign minister can't go and say what's on his mind and, as one MP here said, that's his personal position. He can't have his own personal attitude. Mr. Vuk Draskovic, as they called him, a visionary, has shown his visionation long ago. First, he said that he would cut hands and banners, which waved at Turkish banners in Serbia, then send himself paramilitary formations -- all under one command, only he had some command. He loved that grandmother's hand, bloodied to the elbows, to show a good-willed actor to show mercy. In the end, he said we were doing ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. After all, he now asks to withdraw the lawsuit and still asks Serbs to come out and vote. Well, if he's from Vuk Draskovic, well, that's enough and it's a lot, I guess this government has a sense of thinking about taking him off already. You're talking about an act of goodwill, and Professor Stojanovic says "... [[GROANING APPLAUSE]] to show the act of goodwill, to withdraw the suit, and they will remember that we have a good will, so they will force Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to withdraw the charges against us." Everything you've done since 2000, the act of goodwill you've done, so what have you got? You received a 17 March this year -- Serb persecution from Kosovo, the burning of Serbian monasteries and Serbian houses. These are their answers to your acts of goodwill. They didn't bring you here in 2000 to defend this country, but to do exactly this – to take your responsibility off them and to attribute it to us, how we bombed ourselves, and how we are responsible for what happened in 1999. Kosovo's problem didn't begin in 1999. Kosovo's problem has been dragging back decades. The world has sinned against the Serbian people. The hands of those we fed, brought them here and provided them with freedom killed our children in Kosovo, and those hands committed terrorism and caused all of this. We were just defending our dignity and fighting terrorism. Bill Clinton knew when Osama bin Laden was bringing to Albania, to camps, that his man El Zarkavi and others were training Albanian terrorists and putting them into Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, gentlemen dear, genocide has been committed in Kosovo and Metohija. Using poor uranium 238 is genocide, and you can talk whatever you want. It's a nuclear weapon. These are small atomic bombs, which have remained in the country for centuries. With the A-10 plane and the Apache helicopter, NATO has planted a 30-millimeter ammunition with the country's poored uranium. The radiation remains most of the time. Genetic mutations remain permanent. It's a genocide against one nation and against the plant and animal world, it's the destruction of its ecosystem. Who has the right, after all, to amnesty NATO? Dragging a lawsuit is an amnesty for what they've done here. You're talking about how it's a story that's often repeated, and that we're bored with both God and the people. You're also asking questions whether we're for Europe or if we're going to Europe. If the lawsuit is dropped – we are going to Europe, and if we do not withdraw the suit – we are not going to Europe. Don't go through with those manipulations anymore, that's already disgusting. No one says this country should go to Europe. But there are also some people in that Europe, as well as the Vienna Tribunal, so the Italian Senate, then thousands and thousands of intellectuals in Europe rebelled against NATO aggression. Since the moment of 2000, when you arrived, it ceases and only the initiative begins – The Hague tribunal, the Serb criminals, the Serb war criminals and everything shifts to us. This also puts an end to the pressure of the intellectuals of Europe, the pressure of thousands and thousands of people, well-intentioned and free-loving people, who wanted and wanted to oppose the new world order. Therefore, there's no such thing as confrontation. This is just a legal question -- a desire to collect $100 billion in war damage. We'll forgive you. We're not a people who can't forgive. But we can never forget that. In order to look at the aggressor activities, it should be said that there were about 2,300 air raids, estimated 22 thousand tonnes of explosives were dropped in those attacks on the territory of Yugoslavia, and estimated to be up to 79,000 tonnes, besides 20,000 so-called. "smart bombs" and five thousand conventional bombs, different weights and attacks, including ammunition with impoverished uranium. The attacks were carried out with about 400 Tomahawk-type cruise missiles and 130 air-earth missiles, the number of planes not correctly established, but according to our data, there were 27,000 planes, 152 containers with 35,450 cluster bombs, etc. Killing children for them was collateral damage. They say we'll lose so we don't judge. Why NATO countries insist that we withdraw the lawsuit when they are so sure they will win in that court. Why do they insist on it when it's their judgment, it's their money? Let them go to that court. What's so distracting them from it? In the end, for those of you who are so committed to withdrawing the lawsuit, I would say this: you gentlemen can withdraw the lawsuit, to amnesty NATO, you can find us guilty, you can forget all of this, but don't make us be like you. Serbian radicals can never be like that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6694	I thank the MP Branislav Blazic. The People's MP Dobrica Jankovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6695	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, before this session began, we clearly recognized that this session would be a mistake. That's what we said at the beginning of this session, and that's what it's all about. Why is this session a mistake? Because the topic which is the agenda of this session is an important dilemma, because at the wrong time it is set, I would say by delay, because it deals with the consequences rather than the essence. It is clear to us that we are dealing with politics the need of someone who puts the subject on the agenda. It is also clear that, above all, we should tell the citizens of Serbia what it is and make an effort to stop this way of functioning of the National Assembly. This isn't the place to go over and over again in a way that we're dealing with missed topics. It is the assembly place, but at the right moment and in the right way. Now is neither the time nor the way for what we're doing right now, when we're dealing with this topic. Therefore, we need to choose words, for the sake of basic political decency. It's very important, because we have this obligation, to call things a real name, and that's why I'm saying it. Don't even try, don't hope, don't expect to be fooled by bringing people who are following our work and who are listening to us, that we're divided into those who are carefree about what happened to us, some even respect that some of us have liquefied because of what happened. There is no such thing, not in this House, but it is not every honest and decent citizen of this country. This is about using one opportunity, one moment for political purposes, for the purpose of the current political event in Serbia, which is local elections. The problem is, someone's agreeing to it. But it's a waste of time now, because this congregation has something to do with it. These are some of the things we hope to join in the work of this congregation as soon as possible. No one seriously intends to drop the charges. That's what we talked about clearly. That's why the theme of this session, as I said at the beginning, is a false dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6696	I thank the People's MP Dobric Jankovic. The People's Messenger Miroslav Nedeljković has the word, and let the Messenger of Nadika Momirov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6697	Dear People's MPs, if our lawsuit against NATO countries is not refused, that is, if the Court is declared responsible, the countries we have sued would be best to hire individual MPs from this assembly for their lawyers. They would certainly defend them for free and very successfully and prove that Serbia itself is guilty of NATO aggression. At least these days they've been doing it very "argumented"ly. The parties that will not vote for this resolution find various excuses. Understandably, they do not want to blame the citizens of Serbia, or they do not want to lose political points, and on the other hand they must not vote for our proposal, they must not anger their Western mentors, because in that case they would lose the privileged status of members of the democratic bloc. We have heard all sorts of stories here that Slobodan Milosevic and the Serbian Radical Party are guilty of NATO aggression. It's interesting, as time goes by, the SPS is no longer mentioned as the culprit, but the SRS comes out first. It is understandable because the rating of the SRS is much larger and is no longer interesting to accuse the Socialists. One of the excuses from one of the parliamentary groups is – they are reportedly very upset that the word "issue" is mentioned in our proposed resolution. Now it's a word that has long been overcome, which brings us back to the time of Milosevic, which is badly remembered, and we must no longer use that word. I expect that word to be declared so-called soon. politically incorrect speech and to be declared not from this parliament, but from the Serbian language. Let's look for another word for that same phenomenon. If we forbid the word "issue", "issuer," do we wipe out the phenomenon, the phenomenon that that word describes. The previous speaker said that certainly no one was liquefied because of NATO aggression. Give me an example. I'll give an example, he'll probably remember who it's about. Somewhere in half of NATO's aggression at the time, the opposition politician said -- with this bombing, Milosevic will not fall. If the bombing is not made intolerable of life of the widest layers of the population, which is to run out of electricity, without water, Milosevic will not fall. If done, Serbia will capitulate. I think we all know who said it here. So all of these are just excuses, and the real reason is that orders have arrived, orders have arrived from the NATO pact countries, and someone has to implement them. The SRS did everything she could. She submitted a proposal for this resolution. Ambassador Krasic explained all this beautifully and we now have no new arguments on this issue. We will all have to make a statement about this in a way that will be evident to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6698	I thank Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The People's Messenger Nadica Momirov has a word, and for the word to be prepared, the Messenger of the people, Bojidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6699	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is whether the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is competent to conduct the debate and to decide on this topic on the agenda, or whether this agenda item should be held on the agenda of the session of the Federal Assembly. Political parties in this assembly have made different statements on this issue, often contradictory of what has been given on committees and spoken for by this speaker. The G17 plus considers and makes it clear that there are more priority topics to discuss. This assembly, as the most legislative body, should pass the laws necessary to define non-defined institutions, in order to improve the institutions that already exist. However, this congregation is competent to express political views. If some political parties insist on making political views and putting it into priorities, you will get a political stance and as far as G17 plus is concerned. The G17 plus will not vote in favour of this resolution and will always be against all resolutions that damage our country. G17 plus could possibly vote in favour of a resolution banning the use of hate language, say, or banning the use of political spite, or abuse of our tragedy of political purpose. It's patriotism. Patriotism is when you love and respect your country. But that's not enough. You need to be responsible for your country. Every citizen is obliged to treat his country responsibly, no matter where he is or what he does. First of all, political parties have the greatest responsibility to treat their country this way. That's why G17 plus the party that took responsibility and mobilized all its forces to get this country back on track, to build everything that was destroyed and destroyed, thanks to irresponsible politicians. Finally, to make Serbia a modern country, which will compete with other countries with its reputation. As far as dreams go, my generation and I dreamed dreams in 1992, when we graduated from college. We dreamt of leaving our knowledge in this country. But you, dreaming of your dreams, took those dreams away from us. Many lives are lost. Many lives have changed. My life has changed completely. I never dreamed or imagined that 10 days after the bombing, I would give birth to a son. I don't want to talk about the personal effects of the bombing, because we've all suffered equally. I just want to say one thing: we won't let you, dreaming of your dreams, take away my son's dreams and all the other children.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6700	I thank the People's Messenger Nadica Momirov. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word. Let the People's Messenger Miljko Čevrovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6701	Dear People's MPs, in front of this high house, first of all, as a lawyer, I would like to support the motion for a resolution banning the withdrawal of the suit before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which our country has filed against the NATO Pact, because of the genocide that NATO has carried out over our country. During the 78 days of barbaric destruction of our country, those villains have done invaluable damage to our people and to the state. Ladies and gentlemen, no one has the right to make a decision on withdrawing the NATO pact, because it is the sovereign right of our country and our people to file a lawsuit that has a well-founded legal basis, with the right to seek the condemnation of genocide aggressors and to compensate our country for damages. In addition to the legal basis, which is undeniable, and the amount of damage our country seeks is set at $100 billion. I think it needs to be increased, in line with the findings of experts and the skills of the proper profession. This lawsuit, filed by our country against the NATO Pact, will also represent both the punishment and the warning and the warning for all those who, in the future, dare to try to make unpunished justice, committing against our people and the country a terrible crime. Our country will at no cost and must not give up on the lawsuit, because giving up the lawsuit for our poor and destroyed country would be equal to a new aggression. It would mean that the executioner becomes a victim and the victim is a criminal. That would mean capitulation of the right to force and to injustice. This resolution should be a political stance that will be binding on everything. Giving up the lawsuit is supported by no one but Vuk Draskovic and his associates. No country, viewed through history, has given up war damage, not even ours. After World War I, to remind you, the Germans and the Italians paid war damage. It was paid in millions of gold dinars. This criminal organisation, called the NATO Pact, has done enormous material and immaterial damage to our people, and it is looking at the destroyed infrastructure, destruction of roads, railways, bridges, destruction of natural resources, pollution of the natural environment, a serious humanitarian disaster that has hit our people, as well as 350,000 expelled Serbs from Kosovo. In the end, it is seen in the sufferings of millions of our people. Our country, gentlemen of the people, has been brought down by barbaric, without cause, hiding behind human rights, according to its 19 world powers, classified as NATO's terrorist organisation, commanded by the American Hawks. We don't even know the name of what's left of our country. They still want to judge us for defending ourselves and for being a tough nut. Who did the Serbs terrorise? No one. Everyone in the world knows that, but it's called Western world democracy. There are also ours, such as Vuk Draskovic, who are flocking into their arms, regardless of humiliation and everything that's happened. I hope it won't take long and that, like any other force, it will come to an end and there will be a fine earned. We must not withdraw the suit, if nothing, only for the victims and their loved ones, and all for the prevention of crime, atrocities and tyranny, as well as for the deterrence of the idea that in the future these criminals and their like, only because they are more armed, can they go unpunished, and by force, by their own means, to make justice, contrary to the Charter of the United Nations and all other international legal acts. In the end, it's a warning to those who keep the law in the topless. We know that they smell the traces of inhumanity, but for this inhumanity they have to answer and for this inhumanity they have to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6702	I thank the People's Messenger, Bozidar Koprivica. The People's Messenger Miljko Četrović has the word, and let the People's Messenger Susan Grubjesic be prepared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6703	Dear People's MPs, as I come from the municipality of Kraljevo, here is proof that this is not my participation in the debate about local elections, because by the will of the President of the Assembly and the Minister for Local Administration, the elections for the Municipality of Kralje are not called. But the state of the king's municipality will be discussed by us in the king. Regarding this resolution and the proposal, which was given by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, and the arguments made for three days, as well as in an explanation, that no one has the right to withdraw the suit against eight NATO countries, but unfortunately for most citizens of Serbia, the counterarguments or arguments for withdrawing the lawsuit have not been brought here. Although it has been tried to explain itself, and because of Serbia's future, entering the Partnership for Peace, other European institutions should withdraw the suit, so many times in discussions of some MPs, there are times when there are times when there are times when there are times when there are times when there are times when there are times when there are times when there are times when there are times when there are times when, unfortunately, there are no ways to deal with what they mean – anti-legal aggression. Do MPs who speak these words know what "aggression" means? This is about treason. Who's so afraid of the word "issue"? What kind of inhuman aggression is that? Is there human aggression? What is freedom? What's the honor? What is the dignity of an individual? What is the dignity of the state? What is the sovereignty of the people? It was all trampled, not only in 1999, but years before, and also years after 1999. Unfortunately, what Archibald Rice told us is coming true: "Serbs, take care of yourselves." It seems that in the part of the Serbian people there is an evil fate that has followed us through the centuries, that evil fate, though you may react again, from the greatest heroes to the greatest traitors. But fortunately, throughout history, and in today's time, there are far more heroes than traitors, and always heroes have won in the Serbian people. I have to say something about the consequences of the 1999 bombing. They're not finished with June 1999. Killing one people isn't just about bombs and rockets. The killing of the people has continued. The killing of the people is also done by the lack of drugs and by the lack of basic conditions for a worthy life. Most citizens in Serbia have a hard time living. I hope, despite all the trouble they have to survive, they've been watching this debate and they've heard arguments that no one has the right to withdraw the lawsuit, not just for genocide, but for everything that's in the lawsuit. Unfortunately, you are three and a half years from coming to power, and today you are not ready to form a team to defend the interests of Serbia and the Serb people at the International Court in The Hague. It was also the task of the previous DOS authorities, as well as the authorities of this so-called. The nocturnal democratic bloc. Despite all this, I hope that most MPs will have their conscience worked out and that they will vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6704	I thank the People's MP, Miljko Četrovic. The word of the messenger of the people is Susana Grubeshic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared for the word of Mita Abram.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6705	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Parliament, today is August 26, 2004, and I don't know why I feel like we're back in 1999 and it's like time has stopped. Instead of discussing today a resolution on joining the European Union, adopting it, as has long been done by parliaments of all transition countries, which have become either full members of the European Union in May of this year or will become the most recent future, we have been subjected to such a debate by an urgent procedure, as if there were no more urgent and important topics to be discussed in this country. However, from G17 plus, we agree with the views of the MPs in the drafts, that this assembly can discuss any topic, especially if 84 MPs submit a proposal and if this is found on the agenda of the Assembly. They repeat two positions of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. First, the G17 plus opposes the unilateral withdrawal of the lawsuit. Secondly, the G17 plus will vote against this motion for a resolution. At this point, we do not believe that there are justifiable reasons for the unilateral withdrawal of the lawsuit and that our country would receive no more significant positive point on the international stage, and especially no relief in joining the Partnership for Peace programme. The first and basic condition, as we know, is full co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which, as we also know, is the most difficult condition to meet, and the withdrawal of the lawsuit against NATO member states can follow only if similar war damage claims filed against our country have been dropped against Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the other hand, there is no rational reason why the G17 parliamentary group plus would support such a text of resolution, which is not a legal act but a political act, expresses a political opinion that we disagree with. The applicants of the motion for a resolution are in the best interest of providing themselves with 10 hours of free advertising before the local elections, offering us a mediocre political pamphlet, full of strong words from not so long ago, but a sad political past. However, as if the text of the proposal itself wasn't enough, we could hear "inflammable" speeches from this pay phone, which are suitable for party stands, pre-election myths, and not the highest legislative body of this country. The applicants of the motion for a resolution simply raced to convince us that without making such a resolution, we are failing, that our lives and health are at risk, that even the country's safety is at stake? I sincerely hope that, despite the fact that we will not vote this resolution, we will remain alive and healthy and debate on many issues in this House's assembly. The country's security was most endangered just as the applicants of the proposal were in power. The culmination of the government was 11 weeks of continuous bombing by the NATO Pact. During their reign, this country has survived more horrors than many nations in the world have experienced over the centuries of its modern history. The disintegration of Yugoslavia, the bloody civil wars in Bosnia and Croatia, which ended with an exodus of entire nations, mostly of the Serb people, sanctions of the international community, isolation, turning Serbia into a ghetto, organising a large robbery of the people through deliberately induced hyperinflation, unreasonable economic policy, corruption, crime, murder, etc. In the end, the bombing came as the crown of all that. No normal citizen of this country supported the bombing. With the aggression of the sovereign country, NATO's pact has violated many provisions of international law, without the agreement of the Security Council, attacked a sovereign country, under the pretext of punishing the regime. For eleven weeks, he punished an entire nation. Thousands of people have lost their lives, huge destruction of businesses and other civilian objects has been committed. A significant part of the industry is completely destroyed or severely damaged. A good deal of traffic, electricity, telecommunications and other infrastructure has been destroyed. Many residential buildings, rural households, cultural and historical monuments, hotels, trains, buses have been bombed. In the study, the final bill, published on 19 June 1999, only a week after the bombing ended, G17 plus estimated the damage done to $29.6 billion. Data from that study are quoted in all relevant domestic and foreign institutions, including the UN, its agencies and the World Bank. Those who held power in reduced Serbia, the rest of Yugoslavia, were convinced they would never lose it. Under a famous password -- we will not allow a foreign boot to land on Kosovo and Metohija, the bombing period has also been used to deal with non-existants. In a manner of real neocommunists, they imposed another division on Serbian citizens, along with the already existing partisans and Chetniks, they divided us into patriots and traitors. Thus, normal Serbian citizens were hostages and patriots on earth, and bombers in the sky. Fortunately, we won the NATO, signed the Kumanski Agreement patriots, a textbook example of capitulation, and adopted UN Resolution 1244, also a classic peace agreement with the same NATO pact. So much for winning. Soon I thought I would never hear from a dictionary like this again in Serbia, or at least not in the Serbian Parliament. Unfortunately, some MPs called this debate and the decision on the motion for a resolution a test of conscience. I agree. No one's conscience is calm right now, and they're asking for that review. So here you are, question yourself, do you think that with these resolutions and speeches you will gain the trust of the citizens of Serbia? I don't think so. That time is long past, but it seems that no one has informed you yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6706	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6707	This is one of the moments that concerns just a member of 100, which is that sometimes people have so much fun; it's good, and when it's a difficult topic, that people can relax. But unfortunately, several times the National Assembly and all MPs were offended by different MPs. Often quoting is the most dangerous. Danilo Kish in the story of "The Book of Kings and Fools" says - there are books that serve good and books that serve evil; and "Mein Kampf" is a book. We take good care when we quote. Nothing is worse than when we quote those disgusting words about the Serb people and thus extend their lives. And one of the people who wanted it was quoted here, that's the one that went out every day in 1999 and announced what they were going to bomb in Serbia - Shay. He, as you well quoted, said among other things - he is a stupid Serbian people, he will easily forget. They forgot many immediately, even during the bombing, and it's terrible that many MPs from different parliamentary groups today prove it and say it -- politically it was worth it at the time, it was worth saying -- we won. It was said, it's nothing, it's poor uranium. What an impoverished uranium, that we do not insult our past or our future! You know what it's called in the original: bombs enriched with uranium, extra, to kill. Let's not here, quoting incorrect, unverified or accurate and well-checked claims, to continue something that was helping with genocide. This assembly has said well in these three days - the lawsuit cannot be withdrawn, we will not participate and we will not vote for anything that harms Serbia's present or future. Among other things, we will not repeat the abominations spoken of by the Serb people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6708	I thank Parliamentarian Predrag Markovic. The word has Tomislav Nikolic, a replica or as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6709	National MP Predrag Markovic has deceived the National Assembly. First of all, you usurped this pay phone with a story that the National Assembly was offended. I don't know what the National Assembly is for you, and how the National Assembly can be offended. But now you've said that this National Assembly has made it clear and loud that the lawsuit cannot be dropped. When did the National Assembly say that? What's the National Assembly statement for you? What will you vote for or what you said in the debate? It doesn't mean anything to me that you're all in the debate saying that the lawsuit can't be dropped. You won't vote for the lawsuit not to be dropped. Who collects political points here? Who's thinking about political points now? Let's just write one sentence about Resolution - the lawsuit must not be withdrawn without the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You didn't want to accept that either. Now you'd like to forbid us from quoting what others think and what others have done to us. We have to remember that as long as we're alive. Remember, we were bombed under suspicion of banishing Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija, and the Croats expelled Serbs and were not bombed, but a respected member of the international community. Don't forget, they've been waiting for Albanians who've been running away from bombings in Albania and filming genocide, banishment. Who was waiting for the Krajina Serbs? You now have a motion for a resolution in front of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the threat of Hungary in Vojvodina, which threatens Serbia, which has been expelled from Croatia. Is there a greater tragedy for the Serbian people? So, even when you're expelled from the hearth of one country and driven to another, you're not allowed to settle where you want, by the right of a man to settle, by the right of a man to live, but where Joseph Kasa tells you. If Joseph Kasa says he can't go to Saturday, the Serbs can't settle in Subotica. You want us to forget everything here. You say, unreasonable politics, corruption, crime and murder led to bombing. Then we'll be bombed tomorrow. Now you're running unreasonable politics, now there's corruption, crime, murder. You resented those who defended Serbia in 1999, so you say never defend us like that again. Serbia was defended in 1999. The NATO Pact did not enter Serbia during the period of aggression. How many groups he grouped and prepared to break in from Albania, so why didn't he come in? Because the territory was extremely well defended. Now just hand over those two generals who have defended the territory, just punish them for that defense and hand them over to The Hague. You can talk about anything in this congregation. In this congregation, you'd like to talk about how the generals should be extradited without talking about who made us, why and how he bombed us. You attack us for the resolution, and then ten minutes later, you talk about the damage they've done to us. How do you share that personality? How can you not vote to withdraw the lawsuit if you yourself say we've been hit with bombs, truly enriched with poor uranium? That would be a pure saying. You talk about how many people have killed us, you tell them what they've done, and then you say, but don't mention it anymore. Why? That they won't bomb us again. Does fear, does that inner brake in you not cause any new bombings? No, you won't. You're not even going to run the country so you can challenge anything. This is where the National Assembly is divided and now there is no power or opposition. MPs from the ruling party come out for a pay phone and say the Assembly should work on more important issues, by law, and where these bills are. How many are there in procedures that aren't on the agenda? Do Serbian radicals determine the agenda? Do we schedule an extraordinary session and meetings of the National Assembly, or do you do it as a majority and as a government? What laws are important for Serbia and are in the process without the Assembly considering them? Which one? Electronic signature, what's that? We don't have any important laws, and even if we do, why don't you schedule an emergency session. And now it's our fault that this extraordinary session is scheduled. No, we can't take so many charges on ourselves, we're the opposition in this room. He says ten hours of free commercials. You really think we care about that, that we haven't heard it, that you care about it, that you've had a lot of opportunities here, that you have few MPs, so there's less time at your disposal. But if we hadn't heard from the foreign minister, we'd never have been looking for this point. And if we didn't question the good intentions of the Council of Ministers and of a whole Member State, as you call it by the Constitutional Charter, in relation to the complaint, we wouldn't be looking for this debate. There's one thing I want to warn you about, and I don't want to talk anymore, it's going to be a very good message to the world that it's going to be that the Assembly won't make a statement about banning the withdrawal of the suit. You know, if we don't ban the withdrawal of the lawsuit, it can be treated as if most of Serbia were to withdraw the lawsuit. Your discussions don't remember. One sports team or one sportsman can play a great game, he can run the best in the world, it's the result in the end, whether he won or not. Here only the result of the vote is remembered: The National Assembly is for the prosecution to be withdrawn or not withdrawn, so there is no third alternative. No story in five years to my grandkids, I was against dropping the lawsuit. Whoever's against withdrawing the lawsuit will vote today against withdrawing the suit.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6710	This was on behalf of the promoter? It wasn't a replica. Here you are, MP Milos Aligrudic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6711	We've just heard from the promoter's representative again those words that point to the question, so if you're not with us, then you're against us. I repeat, it's a false dilemma. We had a debate in this congregation that was not caused by the ruling majority. The debate, according to the Rules of Procedure, was sparked by a proponent representing the opposition in parliament. He made an appropriate proposal. The proposal is now on the agenda and is being voted on. The proposal presents the text of the resolution, MPs and parliamentary groups have declared themselves to the concrete proposal. The DSS has resented the proposal in itself in some way disqualifying the right of the state union from the Constitutional Charter, Article 19, to decide exclusively on such a matter as withdrawing the suit. We have not denied the right of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss this, and as a parliamentary group, we have not denied at any time the right of the National Assembly to adopt a document after this debate, which would reflect what is the opinion of the vast majority of MPs here in front of this speaker. That's not what happened. The public is very well aware of that. The DSS has on several occasions made proposals in the past days to create one text that reflected this reality, which does not have to be the text that was proposed. That deal didn't happen. If this agreement did not occur, even if compromises were offered by the promoters to amend their original text, which is true, we could not accept it. Apparently, according to the mood of most MPs in parliament, the rest, not counting the DSS, did not have the mood for such a thing. When so, the DSS, as the ruling political party that did not challenge this debate, did not submit an official proposal for this debate to be conducted and agreed on, because there is something to say, well, we will not be taking part in the vote on the documents offered. If we can't reach an agreement on something that was obviously clear to the public who listened to this debate and what, apparently, most of us at the pay phone, agreed on, then it is wrong on our part and it is not worthy of the ruling political party to vote, to compromise and to re-vote the other MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on any matter. There can't be a word about those who don't declare the text as it is, with the shortcomings we've pointed to, where it's against anything and anything that's been said here for this speaker, and that's not true. We are still very firm behind the position that the lawsuit, which is the subject of this debate, should not be withdrawn, because it is harmful for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6712	Replica, Mr. Paunovic, you'll tell me who the replica is, please. Mr. Nikolic, neither you nor the party are mentioned. On the same basis as Mr. Aligrudic? Well, please let's be brief. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6713	So we're not mistaken, that's why I want a replica. We see after this debate and after every discussion of the MPs of the SRS are indeed the real intentions of this resolution. Again, who knows which way, regardless of the price, are trying to gain political points politically. This resolution is nothing more than a continuation of SRS policy. We're gambling again with the interests of the country. That's this resolution. Mr. Nikolic just said, either someone is in favour or is against it, is that right? Why did we have to, Mr. Nikolic, talk about this resolution today? Unless the only reason is to get two or three days of free marketing for the SRS, but I think you're wrong, Mr. Nikolic. You have not assured anyone in Serbia of what you want to say, and very well everyone in Serbia knows who you are, what you are and what your intentions are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6714	Please, Mr. Paunovic, I warn you how you express yourself to the MPs. All of us, everyone knows for themselves who we are and what we are, be kind, concentrate on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6715	Okay, thank you. What did we hear? We've had opportunities to hear, and that's useful, for us people's MPs, and for the citizens of Serbia, the very essence of the SRS. We've heard the essence of their policy in the past few days. No matter what, they're trying to convince the citizens of Serbia that the whole world is our enemy, that all those who are not Serbs are enemies. You have drawn quotes that speak against the Serb people, I agree, if it is true, and surely it is true, at least half of it. However, thousands of statements from the world that speak well of Serbia, thousands of statements from the world that were against the NATO pact bombing. Why didn't you at least make a copy of those statements, Mr. Krassic? You wanted and you wanted the Serbian people to hate foreigners, spread xenophobia, that's your policy from day one, and you're trying to continue today. No one's gonna believe you anymore, be sure of that. You've shown and proved these days, for who knows which time, but it's good to do it again, that you were also a group of dangerous intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6716	For the second time I warn, there are only MPs here, there are no groups of dangerous intentions. The word has Tomislav Nikolic, so Mr Krasic, since it is mentioned in person.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6717	It didn't take you three days to listen to what we said, and you've already figured out what our policy is. Our policy is love for Serbia, respect for family, the law, our policy is fear of God, our policy is based on the most faithful and most beautiful Serbian traditions. I'm not an immodest man, but I'm not afraid. And if you said that the whole of Serbia knows who I am, let me repeat it to the viewers: 1,500,000 voters voted for me directly, and I am respected by those 1,700,000 who did not vote for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6718	Thank you. The word is Mr. Krasic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6719	Not even a brief discussion of that MP, who caused the replica, or a greater ignorance of the elements of politics and rights. There are beautiful books in our country about organized criminal association. If you had read a little of this, you'd probably recognize someone else doing it, he was almost running, a few months ago he made a party, it's that final stage of organization of an organized criminal association, when alpha and omega with a criminal goal, which encourages crime, can no longer be hidden, but starts to deal with politics. But someone will tell you, from the professors you have from law school, what this joint crime is and what a conspiracy it is. I quoted all those who supported DOS, their original statements. Those statements show deep hatred for the Serb people, not for the regime, not for the individual, not for ideology, but for the Serb people. I deliberately skipped a few statements, one of them was Richard Holbrooke, who described us in an ugly way. I was simply surprised when the president came out to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and in the chosen words, I watched me pick only those statements against the Serb people -- those who encourage genocide, which form public opinion. Just to warn, one man got the Pulitzer Prize, thanks to a drunken intelligence officer getting false information and publishing on the concentration camps of information. Look at the miracles, the skinny one was a Serb, who died of cancer a few months later, and was presented as a Muslim. He won the Pulitzer Prize. His name is Roy Gatman. James Harf, hired to form a public opinion in America about the injuries, the sufferings of Ali Izetbegovic and his followers. When intelligence informed him that what his people were explaining and publishing was a lie, that it had nothing to do with the truth, he repeated a sentence, which is also well known in Serbia's political scene. The sentence says, and it refers to his journalists: "They are not paid to be moralists, but to do the job". The problem is that it's snowed, it's overrun, the tracks are visible, but you can even see who was driving the skis, and the problem is that in Serbia we always have this problem that betrayal finds a call in this people. If we were unique, this wouldn't have happened to us, and now someone needs to finish that last stage of NATO aggression and genocide over this people, that we give up our right to live on our own. You've just heard the exact data, the facts, what the statistics say. By tomorrow you can make variations on the subject - cause, cause, consequence, to twist reality, to have to twist concepts, like that famous notion: if he is innocent, let him go to The Hague, let him prove, which is contrary to what has been the standard of 250 years; 250 years is the standard opposite - the presumption of innocence: everyone is innocent until the guilt is proved. No, you've promoted to The Hague, so let him prove his innocence. You've turned everything around. There's no telling who was calling for the bombing. You know who applauded the bombing. It is known that this is the final stage of breaking Serbia's statehood. I am grateful to Vuk Draskovic, he is a direct cause for snowfall.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6720	Mr. Paunović, please, I'm sorry, this was a replica of your exposure, no replica. It was mentioned, but it was a replica. It was a replica of you personally, therefore, to your exposure. Here you go, Mr. Dacic!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6721	Ladies and gentlemen, I have responded to the replica, as several previous exhibitions have negatively talked about the very idea of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the Socialist Party of Serbia, along with the Serbian Radical Party, is the signator of this request for an emergency session, I ask all MPs and parliamentary groups to have due respect. Any number of MPs greater than 84 have the right to schedule an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, greater than 83, but if it were to be concluded, it would be 84. In any case, the occasion for this meeting do not ask whether opposition or ruling political parties have signed it. I would remind the ruling political parties in Serbia that there is no ruling majority in Serbia. There is a ruling minority in Serbia, supported by the Socialist Party of Serbia. How long will the majority exist, will we see at the next meeting of the National Assembly? Anyway, I want to say that we're discussing a specific issue -- a lawsuit against the NATO Pact that bombed our country. This was not about any politician, not one political party, but a statement by the foreign minister. We're talking about the ruling majority here. Which, ladies and gentlemen, is the ruling majority. When the foreign minister says something against which almost all political parties are the ruling majority. On whose behalf is this man speaking? If there were order in the ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament, that man would no longer be foreign minister and that question would not be asked by the Serbian Radical Party, but by you who chose him, with our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6722	The word has the People's MP Boban Vojnovic, and let the People's MP Darko Glisic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days many in Serbia are in a dilemma whether the foreign ministers of our country should defend their country's interests or serve to serve as one's servants or to defend the interests of some foreign, foreign states. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted an initiative, and our MPs want a motion for a resolution on the ban on withdrawing and dropping the suit to be discussed, and MPs of the National Assembly to be heard about it. This lawsuit is the only thing we can do right now. That's how we protect our country, our country's interests. This will help the International Court to offer evidence that a terrible crime was committed against Serbia in 1999. By dropping the suit, we would take the blame on ourselves, and by doing so, this aggression would be justified. The foreign minister knows that, and so did the previous foreign minister. But unfortunately, they were run by the same ones who bombed us in 1999. Can anyone in Serbia understand today and understand Vuk Draskovic, who is no longer representing anyone in this country? How can he react to what he wants to do to the families of the dead? How do people whose factories burned in the bombing react to all this? Should such a crime be forgiven? Ask the citizens of Serbia, those people who don't view this politically, what they think. The vast majority of Serbian citizens do not want to forget this and that all those who bombed Serbia, all the states that participated in the destruction and genocide, must go before the International Court. Whether that court will provide any victim with justice and will in an unbiased way apply law, we will see. How, if we withdraw the lawsuit, will we legally protect the generals, the military, all those who defended the state during the 1999 NATO aggression? We all know that there were not so many reasons for the bombing and for the great consequences that occurred during the bombing. Let the International Court decide whether or not our state will win the procedure. Whether to respect evidence of genocide and crime, it's in court. No one in Serbia should be allowed 78 days of bombing, fear, suffering, 78 days of death and destruction to put into oblivion. Today, the effects of the bombing are still felt, both in Pirot, and in Novi Sad, in all Serbian cities, more and more people are getting sick, the rate of disease in children has increased, and this will take a very, very long time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a moral obligation to make a decision, to take a political stance, to say what the vast majority of Serbian citizens think, that both SRS and Serbian citizens will never forgive those who killed us, burned and destroyed us. One day, both Vuk Draskovic and all of you who treat death in this way, will, according to a crime against Serbia by NATO aggressors, to the most difficult court, to a court that never forgives, which is the court of its people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6724	The word has a People's MP Darko Glisic, and let the MP Milan Veseinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6725	Since I have two minutes at my disposal, I'm going to try to say something in a few sentences that I imagined. We've heard a lot of arguments why this lawsuit shouldn't be dropped. We also heard those unreasonable arguments that went in the opposite direction. I don't think any reasonable citizen in this country would press charges against those who so soullessly bombed us in 1999. But what is it that one unreasonable citizen, who under the circumstances came to the position he is now in, forced to make such a statement, as well as a series of statements that harm not only the state of Serbia but also every citizen? I think it might be some fear of The Hague. As it began, there will almost be no Serb who will not be indicted and brought before The Hague tribunal. Maybe what he did in the early 1990s, and it's about forming paramilitary formations and sending them to the SFRY hotspots, something that makes him behave the way he behaves. Perhaps he needed some courage from Mr. Markovic, who was at the same time visiting those hotspots. Today we saw some photos, along with Baj and Arkan, so Mr. Markovic didn't get scared, and he said the lawsuit shouldn't be dropped, just to vote for the resolution we filed. I hope Mr Markovic was not offended by the discussion of his head of the parliamentary group, who said that all those who visited the battlefields at the time were war thugs. I hope Mr. Markovic wasn't offended. When SPO MPs say they are responsible, i.e. with this performance of Vuk Draskovic they want to be responsible for the citizens, then I ask Serbian citizens to remember the end of last decade, that is, the period when the SPO ruled in Belgrade. We saw what responsibility they had then – "left hand-right pocket", put up everything and take everything you can, business space, social housing, and what they got. What do we get by withdrawing a lawsuit? We're not getting anything at all. Since the delivery of Milosevic to The Hague, there have been many such concessions that have not brought anything to this country. One such concession would indeed be another one in a series of moves that would show that further courting those who pressure us does not go in favor of us. I'd like to leave a few minutes and a colleague of Veselinovic to discuss. I ask those who in 2000 brought their own reputation to power by the beginning of this year, who I thought were gone, and who brought others back to power this year, so in my opinion that from 2000 to 2004, the worst of them was a little waver, because the ones you've brought to power now are almost the same, that they're not going to cheat, but for local elections with Karic or with some other Serbian citizens, to lead someone back into fraud. I am convinced that the citizens after these discussions, which we have had these few days in parliament, will know in the right way that the assessments that these are political parties that work in their interest. I expect citizens to vote for those representatives who will work in their interest, which are representatives of the SRS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6726	The word is made by MP Milan Veselinović, you are entitled to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if it were luck, as we all swear that we are Serbs, if we were Serbian Orthodox, it would not have been two days of debate over this resolution, but here, all those who swear by heart, would simply agree with this resolution and be adopted in five minutes, as Serbian radicals did when the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija was on the agenda. Unfortunately, there are conflicting opinions here, especially those of certain groups, which remind exactly, are like Vuk Draskovic. Vuk Draskovic is right when he says that the idea maker and father is almost most of you who are today ruling. You can easily identify yourself through a speech. NATO aggression is just fascism, genocide. It's an act no one can deny. It is an attack on the sovereign Yugoslavia, the SRJ in 1999, outside the UN and Security Council decisions. I believe that no one has the right in someone's name, nor the right in the name of this assembly and the Government, to withdraw the SRJ suit, because that's what we do sin against the victims and all that NATO criminals have done. I'll just remind you of some of Mr. Vuk Draskovic's advances back in the '90s. We remember on 9 March, when he turned Serbs to Serbs and everything that happened in Belgrade, that he would then go to Serbia and come to the Raška country, to Novi Pazar, where he told more than 20,000 viewers in front of him – who brought a Turkish banner to Raška country or any other country, I will cut off his hand and banner. After that, with the help of UDBA, the remains of that UDBE, still Joseph Broz, fled through the old man to Rask and left us to fight with Muslims in Novi Pazar. Is that the controversial wolf today? I propose that the National Assembly ask through our representatives in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly to recall Vuk Draskovic, that such a controversial personality simply submit to other psychiatric observations, because all of what he is doing today is a direct betrayal and a crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6728	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Here you go. You've got 10 minutes, you've already used 10. Authorised representative Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6729	Three days ago, at the beginning of this debate, in my opening statement, I said the position of the G17 plus on the lawsuit and this resolution. They'll repeat it once again, by noting that after three days we're even tighter in that attitude, and I'll explain why. So, G17 plus opposes any unconditional withdrawal of the complaint against the NATO pact member states, and in connection with the 1999 bombing, as well as the damages caused by this bombing to Serbia. On the other hand, G17 plus also opposes not only this resolution, which we should vote on today, but any similar political stance, which obviously, which we had the opportunity to see during the discussion on this point, at no point was meant to defend Serbia, the defence of the Serbian people, or that the motive for submitting such a resolution was the fear that the lawsuit would be withdrawn. I am saying this not only on the basis of my own impressions from the discussion, but on the basis of what the MPs of the parliamentary group who is proposing this resolution have said. So we have had the opportunity to hear today that this debate is actually our own goal, that this debate is not as motive or fear of withdrawing the lawsuit, nor the protection of Serbia and the Serb people, but as regards NATO bombing from 1999, but that the aim is to conduct this debate, or simply to hear certain political views in this assembly. All of this would not be at all controversial, for MPs are in the congregation to express their political views. That's the point, that's why we're here. The problem is, however, when it comes to the political views that the only goal and the only motive have, in fact, the spread of hatred, the spread of rhetoric and that policy, and the continuity with that policy that actually led us to the tragedy of 1999. We have, unfortunately, had the opportunity to hear the various statements given today. I sincerely hope that at least that's not forged in this assembly. The statements made are related to the Serbian people. We should never forgive or forget that someone once made those statements. But what's tragic about that is not only the fact that these are not the only statements made about Serbs, but rather the opposite. There were many more who the Serbs were very positive about, speak very positively of them, and hopefully oppose the bombing that took place in 1999, and the people and people who made it perfectly clear that what happened in 1999 was aggression and tragedy that happened to the Serbian people. We must not, we cannot, and we have no right to teach our people to hate. What else is the purpose of what we have heard and what we have heard but to hate the whole world, and all with the excuse that this whole world hates us? He doesn't hate us the whole world. It's not us who are under the hatred of the whole world, or who are the only victims of the whole world. We need to understand that the only way to live normally in Europe and the world, and I am proud to be European or European, as someone here said, and we all in G17 plus are proud to be Europeans. We want to join the European Union, and we don't think that the European Union hates us and wants us to be hurt, even though individuals may have wanted us hurt, even though individuals may not have loved us, but it is an honor to them. It is our honor to act civilizedly and not to spread hatred, not only in our own country, but against anyone on this planet. If we're patriots, if we're patriots, if we're civilized people, then we can only spread tolerance. All the opposite of that is bad, not for others, but for us. I'll remind you of one more thing you seem to have forgotten. It's not just Serbs sitting in this assembly. It's a shame you say that. In this congregation there are also members of another people. We are proud to live in a country whose citizens are members of other peoples. We are not ashamed of it, and we must not be ashamed of it. That policy and that rhetoric that we had the opportunity to hear and, unfortunately, to endure the previous decades has tried to produce such hatred, which just had the goal not only to bring down on us the whole world, but also to challenge and hate in our country. It must never happen again. When we talk about defeats, I'll just say one thing. Serbia was defeated in 1999. Serbia was not defeated in either First or World War II. In those wars she won. But you understand one thing, and the citizens of Serbia know it. We didn't win NATO in 1999. We didn't beat him. So it didn't happen, whether you wanted it or not. You understand that. That victory didn't happen. Not only have we lost, but NATO has entered Serbian territory. That's what you gentlemen signed and you agreed to it. Kosovo and Metohija are an inalienable part of Serbian territory. That's what we all agreed on in this congregation. Hence, the forces of NATO member states are on Serbian territory. We shouldn't be proud of that. We need to know the facts precisely because of that policy that was the leader of everything that happened to us, which culminated in 1999. We will not only vote in favour of this resolution, but we will never support those political views that are in the function of these interests and of this alleged and false patriotism that you in Serbia are preaching and persistently trying to impose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6730	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Krasic, and then the replica, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6731	I'm being attacked by some MPs from G17 plus for a quote. I'm not the author of those statements. Your friends have made these statements, and that anger and that anger should be directed towards Brussels, according to the International Monetary Fund, according to those advisors you received, who are in the ministries, who advise you, help you, etc. Don't turn things around now. Those aren't my statements. And I loathe those statements and therefore plead not to withdraw the suit. The culprit for this debate is Vuk Draskovic, and you in your coalition solve it, as by the system when the children are fighting, the father of the swing slap and the children love each other immediately. Your boss is gonna swing a slap and you're gonna love each other again. That's clear, we've already explained that. This replacement of thesis is dangerous – do not represent ignorance for virtue. If there's a word that represents a clear and precise definition, and as a term written in all lexicons, then that's the word "patriotism". Patriotism is not what someone taught us, my ability to travel to the world, or that other replacement thesis, to which it is necessary to go to church and Micunovic leaves the party. You keep those internal systems of value there, but don't promote it as something that's acceptable to this people. And when someone honors something to the Serbian Radical Foreigner, at the beginning of my speech I told – the Serbian people, in a populist sense, and I mean all citizens living in the Republic of Serbia. We in the Serbian Radical Party do not share the citizens of the Republic of Serbia either because of the programme, ideology, and probably because of the fact that we are such an open party representing all the representatives, all the citizens, all the social structures and all the national structures, and don't turn things around. You are able with the help of the media, Soros media, and as of next year, Soros telecommunications, and the complete future telephony that is being prepared, to turn everything around, so now your main problem is your conscience and towards voters, how to justify that you do not want to vote for the resolution, and then there are reasons, it bothers that they have proposed Serbian radicals, it bothers that all of this Vojislav Seselj hinted at, it bothers that perhaps Slobodan Milosevic on October 5th may have been the only correct speech in life and explained who comes to power. They didn't believe us, but here's the piece, the works show. There's no six billion, a drop in production, chaos, murder, the final phase of the state's destruction. I'm sorry, but you're taking part in this phase. Whether you're aware or not, but you're involved in a criminal enterprise.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6732	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Dacic has a word. Mr. Dacic asked for a replica of Ksenija Milivojevic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6733	Mrs Milivojevic said in her statement that the government, which ruled Serbia, not in the past 10 years, as you usually say, because in the past four years you have ruled Serbia, in those 10 years, from 1990 to 2000, has led a policy of hatred towards members of national minorities. That's a lie. It's a lie. If that's true, look at the results of the list. Today, there are as many national minorities in Serbia as there were before these wars. How, then, did Serbia conduct ethnic cleansing against members of national minorities? Where are Serbs in Croatia, where are Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, of course, where are Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija? And no one's looking at those eyes today. This is not the Serbian People's Assembly, this is the Serbian Assembly, but this is not the Assembly against Serbia and the Serbian people. What Vuk Draskovic suggested is the theme of today's session, not what happened in 1999, as well as what happened in March this year, when a further ethnic cleansing was carried out in Kosovo and Metohija at the time of your and our government in 2004. You don't like Resolution 1244. I would remind you, it is neither victory nor capitulation, but the Chernomidin Agreement -- Ahtisaari has accepted the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, without the Serbian Radical Party, with the help of the Serbian Renewal Movement, which today seeks to withdraw the lawsuit. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia accepted the resolution. If you don't accept it, ladies and gentlemen, if you think it's a capitulation, let's not stick to it anymore, let's make a decision, if you're up for it, that we don't respect Resolution 1244, because the international community no longer respects it. That's what we're voting for. But, please, this isn't about the period we've been through, this is about what reality is. There is a state union between Serbia and Montenegro, there is a foreign minister, who is the image of the parliamentary majority in the Serbian Parliament, who makes statements that do not include the parliamentary majority in the Serbian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about this today. We're talking about how someone can make statements, on behalf of which parliamentary majority? Vuk Draskovic attacked a minister from the government of the Republic of Serbia today, minister of religion from the Democratic Party of Serbia, Mr Radulovic, because he spoke about Orthodoxy. Is that the parliamentary majority? If that is the parliamentary majority, the Socialist Party of Serbia will no longer support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6734	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ksenija Milivojevic is looking for a word. Please quote the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6735	According to the Rules of Procedure, wrong interpretation. So I'm definitely misread, and that's why I'm advertising the Rules of Procedure. I didn't say for a moment that the statements were interpreted, or that they were yours, but that they were quoted, but I said, and I'm going to do it here again – those statements of broader hatred and that's the fact of the situation. Why didn't you quote, say, a British officer who gave the BBC in 1999 in the middle of NATO bombing, who then said that Serbs were a heroic people and that the Serbs helped the English most during World War II, and that it was a shame that one nation, who was an ally in the war, was bombed. There are also such statements, and such statements should be heard much more and much more frequently in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6736	Thank you. Since everyone has used their time, before I conclude a single search into the motion for a resolution, does the motionary want a final word? Here you are. There's an MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is an anecdote about two philosophy schools. A member of the Kirmenite school found a stoic, a member of another school, sitting next to a spring and eating wishes. He told him -- if you'd listened to the master, you wouldn't be eating wishes today. This one tells him -- you, if you wanted to live off your wishes, you wouldn't have to listen to the master. That's all. We are offered here to accept everything they do to us, because we have a sacred goal of entering Europe. Here, let's accept everything they do to us. They bombed us savagely, you kissed and hugged them in Budapest. After October 5th, you took over. Serbia has accepted your story that you will bring her a better life. Serbia, exhausted, on its knees, from sanctions, from bombing, has accepted your story because you said that children will start living better, without fear for the future, that there will be jobs, that there will be free schooling, that every child will have a music column, a computer. Serbia followed you in the 2000 elections. You failed Serbia. Your story was only a part of it. You've forgiven the West all he's done, the West hasn't returned it to you. You've further removed us from the West. In 2000, we were ten years away from the European Union. Today, although it has been four years, we are not six years away from the EU, but 15 years away from the EU. Those nine additional years of distance have taken your power from us. False things have been said about us here. We were in conflict, in war with Croatia, but we don't hate all Croats. We were at war with the Muslim state, but we don't hate all Muslims. Don't talk about how radicals don't like Croats. You know that's not true, and I can tell you frankly-- Croats don't like Serbs. There are no Serbs in Croatia. Those who have remained, slowly receive faith, proselytism is spreading again. Serbian children change their name and name to undermine traces of their Orthodoxy. Nothing bad happened to minorities in Serbia, perhaps to an individual, but don't generalize it. I warn you, a man is appreciated for how honest he is, how much he loves the state he lives in, whether he pays taxes, whether he responds to an army call, whether he responds to an invitation to defend the state. I don't care what faith, what people belong to, which is half and which political party they belong to. I'm not ready, like you, as soon as the pay phone radical comes out, let me say -- here's the old story, here's the hate speech, we've heard all this. Where did you get the right to do that? Everyone here says what they think and what they write in their program, the people judge what they say and what they are like in Serbian politics. I am proud to be a Serb, I belong to European peoples, but Europe does not accept me as a European or as a European. She doesn't accept it, because if she accepted it, she wouldn't introduce visas to my people. Let's not talk about sanctions, because if you say that all the sanctions that were taken were justified, I'm asking you -- these years and a few days of sanctions on the export of our sugar, was that justifiable? If it was justified, why isn't Labus in jail? Who caused those sanctions? Who let us fool Europe? Who damaged Serbia's budget? Who told the peasants to deal with sugar tails? Labus. He knew how much extra sugar was available for export, so why did he give permission to export all the sugar? Who does he cheat on? Those who have a chip in their teeth that they all know about each other? That's how you talk in a normal state. And that -- you were in power ten years ago, that doesn't mean anything to you. It was a story in 2000. Since then, we've passed all the exams in front of the voters. If we were not good, we would not be the strongest political party in the Serbian Parliament. Do not underestimate the citizens of Serbia. Give me a medium that we have under control. Name a medium that pushes us and propagates us, so the citizens don't know what's true and they don't know what anyone stands for. We didn't tell the story of withdrawing the lawsuit to spread to the story of our past, but you're wrong. Especially young people who come out here and talk with indignation. NATO didn't defeat us in 1999. We didn't win NATO, but you never heard any radicals say we won NATO. I'm proud to tell you that NATO didn't beat us. NATO had to look for another way to enter Serbia's territory. He found it in the Serbian Parliament. Not to tell you, there's no MP I called months ago, he said he cried at my office when they signed the Ahtisaari plan, Chernomidin. Even though it was difficult for us at the time, I can't say that this congregation couldn't make such a decision, as you do. Each Assembly of the Constitution provides for a majority right to make any decision it wishes. You see how punished everyone who participated in that decision. It will take them many years to reach the strength they had before they signed the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan. But that's where Slobodan Milosevic made a cunning move. He didn't sign anything, he didn't accept anything. The Serbian Parliament accepted and accepted the federal government. You don't have any signed by Slobodan Milosevic. NATO didn't beat us, and after that, we did everything to make the results four years later worse than to beat us. NATO could not come to Kosovo and Metohija with the help of bombs and planes, it came with the help of the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin Agreement, and you found the agreement. Tell the truth, where are we now in Kosovo and Metohija? Are we at least in the same situation that we were in when you came here? We didn't. You say you're allies of Europe, that you're her favorites, that you can talk to her openly. I am convinced, Miss Milivojevic, that there is a Schengen visa in your passport that may be valid for a year. What's Serbia got to do with it? What's in Kosovo and Metohija? How many of our children can get such a visa? You could have gotten that visa and not taken over power in Serbia. I guess you took it from me that all our other kids could get such a visa, not to go live there, but if their parents had money, they'd go and see what it looked like there. I'm convinced, to me by your Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when I go to Strasbourg as an MP, that our diplomatic visa for five days. All right, you can humiliate the MPs as much as you want. I just want to say what the treatment of your Europeans is and what the treatment of us who are most in the Assembly is, how we are treated by your state bodies. That's how the world divides us. And so the world asks -- you're a political party -- when you go into the world. You've led the world to divide us again. We're dividing by politics here, and don't blame it. In this congregation, we made various political views and assessments. I guess that's our right. That's your right, I don't blame you, but you're doing everything you can to keep the world apart, that there are good and bad politicians in Serbia for the world. Suddenly, the bad politicians for the world are the ones who love the country, the ones who wish to defend it, the ones who didn't hesitate to go to war alone or their loved ones to go to war. Of course, for the world they're not good Serbian politicians, but then the question is, what is the relationship of the world to us? In America, love for the earth is called patriotism. Is there an American who doesn't like America? Is there an American who doesn't want to defend her until the last drop of blood? Look at the athletic races in Athens, three Americans running and going out on the winning podium, and all three, and one is black, one white, one yellow, put their hands on the heart when the American anthem is intonated. I want such a Serbia, that every Serbian citizen is proud to listen to an anthem in Serbia and that none of the other citizens can tell him, you're dirty because you love Serbia. I want such a Serbia, in which, as well as radicals, you will love Serbia the most, that you love Serbs, but that you do not hate other citizens of Serbia. You are not telling anyone that the first vice-president of the Bulgarian Assembly was a radical, that Serbia's first minister was a radical, that he was now the only member of the minority vice-president of the Radicals Assembly of Bulgaria. Why don't you force minority members like that? Just talking about how they'd be better off if you won. Show it to me in the open. The story was told today. I shouldn't have bothered to tell this story and you brought your story here. Serbia has recognised us all, we have no parliamentary elections, this is not a story for local elections, you are in great error. Local elections are told what anyone will do, what the code will build, how it will spend that little municipal budget, how it will help citizens to live better, to bind, to have better communals. Patriotism and nepatriotism don't win local elections, and that wasn't our goal. You're not going to tell yourself what the next step is to the foreign minister. Maybe someone's trying to convince you that his statements mean nothing to you. It means a lot of his statements. Our concern caused by the foreign minister's statements was expressed at this point in the agenda. On every individual's conscience, but you're not the only ones who'll be able to talk to the world. We'll talk too, it'll just be either straight to us or lower to us, if that's the nature that created them. And if we were to stand on our knees in front of anyone from the world who comes here to be taller than us, you wouldn't experience it from one member of the SRS. I call on the MPs of the SRS to vote in favour of this proposal. I call on everyone else, who wants reason and heart to vote, to vote in favour of the resolution. And the others, whose politics is more important than what can be prevented by this resolution, I face their safety.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6738	Thank you. Replica, please, because you're mentioned personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6739	With regard to exactly what I was mentioned in person, I would like to inform you, the Serbian Parliament: there is no valid Schengen visa in my passport at this time, and I am prepared to give my passport to the public, if necessary. I don't think so, because I think it's a personal document. So that's one thing. The second thing is a series of charges you've made about Mr. Labus, which have nothing to do with this debate, so in this replica, I'm going to look back on, when you've already misused your right to the final word. Namely, I will inform you that on 7 August 2004, Serbia was suspended on privileged exports of sugar to the European Union. It came into force on 7 August this year, and thanks above all to the efforts and efforts of Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Mr Labus. If that's why Mr. Labus is going to jail, then I don't mind, but I think it's the opposite. I think some other people should go to jail for that, but I won't mention them here, because when we have the proper evidence and when the court decides, they'll go to jail. They can't go to jail because I or anyone else might like it that way. Finally, since you took the opportunity in your closing statement to explain to us how Croats hate Serbs, you have neither moral nor human, nor as a politician the right to make such a statement, because there is also a Croat in this country. You may not like it, but Croats, citizens of Croatian nationality, are also citizens of Serbia, with all the rights that every citizen of Serbia has. We as a state, and as you yourself said during the discussion, which respects human rights, we have an obligation to fully respect their rights, and to respect all those rights that belong to them as citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6740	Thank you. Here, I know he doesn't have the right to a replica, but he's mentioned himself. A little tolerance for each other. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6741	Mr. President, if you have listened carefully to my discussion, I have never said that Croats hate Serbs. Do you accept that each of us has passed our mandate for what you now claim? I said they don't like Serbs. It's a big difference if you don't like someone to hate them, you have a whole diapazon of feelings for someone. Don't throw anything at me, which I especially care about, because I know the whole world is watching if any radicals are ever going to say something and use it against him. I didn't say it, but the data on how official Croatia treats Serbs is terrible, horrifying. Croatia expelled Serbs in three days, expelled from Croatia's territory. The world knows all about it. What do you want? Forget it? Should I take a passport and go to Croatia to sea? I don't know what you need it for. See whom they raise up the monument, Mila Budak, the creator of the story of the Serbs to the willows; she says, the poetic expression used - the Serbs to the willows. Don't force-load something we're not. Of course I'm a careful judge of what anyone thinks. I don't want to close my eyes to what Casa Joseph is doing. I won't. You shut up, but if someone accuses Serbia of being beaten by hundreds of Hungarians, that police and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are involved, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been accused before the Parliament of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, I will not be silent about it. You keep your mouth shut. Someone kept quiet about what was going on in Kosovo and Metohija for years, so that's what happened. Get Casa Joseph to come forward, bring evidence, I'll convict every such incident, every single one of them. If there were hundreds and hundreds of beatings by the Hungarians, that's what Serbia needs to know. Don't hide it from us. I don't want anyone accusing me of something you're hiding, if there is one. If it doesn't exist, let's see what we can do with Casa Joseph. There are laws for everything. Where's the DA from Saturday, where's to determine what's true? Against those who commit evil deeds, a charge or one who spreads false news, who spreads impatience amongst the people of various nations. And not like this, shut up and shut up. What do we get with it? We've discussed withdrawing the lawsuit, but we won't vote. Does this look like everything Serbia has been doing for years?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6742	Time, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6743	I'm done. The state defends itself with pride, sometimes at all costs. It simply doesn't go differently; either you belong to the state, or you don't belong; either you are a people or you're not. Let's announce we're an unprotected zone, let him come and do what anyone wants. But we're not like that. Our history isn't like that. Change our history. Take the earth back for centuries, change our history, change our genes; we have these, we don't have others. When I see that the weaker he's bullied, the more blood inside me, and when someone goes to the state, I have to defend it, the more I do. We may never win, but this remains our program forever. We're not giving up on this program, and you're doing what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-26-0.u6744	Thank you. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a resolution. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 81(3). Rules of Procedure, I order Thursday, August 26, 2004, at 8:15 p.m., to vote. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my huge apology, this is really unserious, whoever made the joke, whoever took Milos Jevtic and Milan Markovic's cards, is a joke. Now it's okay. I remind the MPs, once again, that they always carry cards when they come out of the O.R. It's their parliamentary obligation. I don't think we need to check the quorum, it's visible that it exists. If that's what you want, we'll determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to establish the quorum for the session to continue. We move to a decision on the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a resolution on the ban on withdrawal or withdrawal from the suit filed by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to the International Court of Justice in The Hague against the Member States of the NATO Pact for damages committed during the 1999 bombing, since the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has conducted a single search on the motion for a resolution, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a resolution on the ban on withdrawing or giving up the lawsuit brought by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to the International Court of Justice in The Hague against the NATO Member States for the damages suffered during the 1999 bombing. For 102, against 58, there was no vote of 50, a total of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted a motion for a resolution prohibiting the withdrawal or withdrawal of a lawsuit filed by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to the International Court of Justice in The Hague against the member states of the NATO Pact for damages committed during the 1999 bombing. Since it was pointed out during the session that the employees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were injured, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(2). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Rajko Baralic, at a session on 25 August 2004, at 12.55 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 38(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 100, against 84, did not vote seven, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. National MP Ksenija Milivojevic, at a session on 26 August 2004, at 13.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 43, against 12, a abstentioned one, did not vote 122, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since we've conducted our review and decision-making on the sole agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I am concluding the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004.
