ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8052	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, we understand the intention that you really want to exhaust these marathon meetings, and then transfer that a large number of our amendments are one kind of obstruction. The amendments are a perfectly legal thing and we are trying to fix the quality of this law, but we don't understand until the end, if you want to work on Mondays and Fridays and other days in the Rules of Procedure, why don't you convince your MPs to come on time. We've been waiting for more than an hour for this to begin. It really doesn't make sense. We will endure, and so far we are, and you get together and see what's wrong with that coalition of yours, because this is one of the signs that something is wrong. One is happening on two ends of Serbia, but that is your choice and your problem. The amendment I have submitted concerns technical details and will essentially not change this law that requires fundamental changes. It is possible for us to cosmetically edit it, but no more than that because if, by accepting this amendment, qualitatively correct it then really, the courts would be able to implement a faster and more efficient application based on an executive document. Those terms shall be processed in Articles 30 and 31. Pursuant to Article 31, the executive documents are judicial decisions, i.e. executive judicial arrangements, executive administrative decisions, administrative alignments and infringements which are declared as such in that infringement procedure. This is, in fact, the first and second points of this single position of Article 31, and there is no change in our amendment that matters. Something more important is the change in Article 31, paragraph 3, where we insist that the application of the second alignment or other decisions is actually more logical and closer to the spirit of the law, that it has been brought to life in legal terminology, even in the colloquial terminology of people who are not dealing with the law and we do not see that there are any particular reasons to leave that the legislator has given "another document which has been laid down by law as executive documents". We have two basic forms of executive documents, we think we can keep them as such in item 3 that this is not some effort and that the minister, as during the session yesterday afternoon, will have a good will and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8053	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, all of us, whether we're lawyers or not, we don't know what the importance of this Implementing Procedure Act is, and we know the gravity of its implementation in practice. Therefore, we Serbian radicals have written a series of amendments that are related to each other with the aim of improving the text of this law and in order to make this law clearer and more practical. One of those amendments is my amendment to Article 32, which I have submitted with the aim of changing the full text of Article 32 of this Law. In order to understand better, I will try to read you a position by position and article 32, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the amendment to Article 32, which I have proposed. The Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed Article 32(1): "The Court's decision, within the meaning of this law, is considered a verdict, a solution, as well as another decision taken in court proceedings, arbitration and the Court of Honor of the Chamber of Commerce, and judicial alignment is considered a settlement concluded before the court, arbitration or the Court of Honor and the Chamber of Commerce." You will see by reading my amendment how improved this first attitude is, as far as clarity and precision in execution are concerned. Namely: ‘The judgment of the Court of Justice of the meaning of this Act shall be deemed to be a judgment, i.e. a decision, a solution, a payment order and a second court order, a court-selected court and arbitration, and a judicial settlement shall be deemed to be a settlement concluded before that court’. We predicted that a settlement could be concluded before the elected court and arbitration. In this other sense, it was given to be the Court of Honor or the Court of Commerce. Such solutions are given that are not good for us. Article 32(2) of the proposed Article reads: ‘The decision in the administrative procedure, within the meaning of this law, considers a solution or conclusion taken by the authorities, officials and legal persons exercising public authority, and the administrative alignment is considered to be a settlement concluded in the administrative procedure’. I provided that Article 2 reads as follows: ‘The decision in the administrative procedure within the meaning of this law considers the decision and conclusion of the authority of the administration and of the other state authority, as well as of undertakings or other organisations, taken in the exercise of entrusted public powers, and the settlement in the administrative procedure is considered to be a settlement concluded within the meaning of the General Administrative Procedure Act’. So not only has the language changed the meaning of this article, but the formulation and application of this second position of Article 32 been given much more precisely. Normally, paragraph 3 is derived from this, which we suggest that "by a decision in a misdemeanour procedure, in the sense of this law, it considers the solution made by a judge for violations or by another competent authority". I must remind you that this amendment is from the current law, and we have seen in practice that this amendment has been applicable to the current law. My amendment should be accepted because in practice it is applicable and thus the whole of this law has one better meaning and a better text. I appeal to Members to accept this amendment to Article 32 because the wording itself is much clearer and more precise and I call on the Minister of Justice to join it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8055	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 33. The draft law on the enforcement procedure, and I propose that the whole member be amended, so that it reads: "The court decision or decision taken in the infringement procedure is enforceable if it has become judicial and if the deadline for the voluntary fulfilment of the debtor's obligation has expired. The decision adopted in the administrative procedure shall be enforceable if it has become final and if the deadline for the voluntary fulfilment of the obligation has expired. The time limit for the voluntary fulfilment of the obligation shall run from the date of delivery of the decision to the debtor. On the basis of a decision that has become executive in one part, enforcement can only be determined in that part. The enforcement will also be determined on the basis of a court decision which has not become a judicial decision and decisions taken in a administrative procedure which has not become final if the law stipulates that the appeal does not retain the enforcement of the decision." This amendment is identical to the existing Implementing Procedure Act. I think this solution is more effective and has found a basis in practice, so I suggest that the Assembly accept this amendment and thus improve the Implementing Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8057	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you have already heard, this is about an amendment to Article 34. The draft law on the enforcement procedure, but concerns the enforceability of the settlement. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group pursuant to Article 141. I have submitted an amendment to Article 34 to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Proposal for a law on executive procedure. Thus, Amendment 34 is amended and reads: “The court settlement, or settlement, concluded in the administrative procedure, is enforceable if the request for alignment has arrived. The maturity of the claim shall be demonstrated by the settlement record, either by public correction, or by law by a certified correction. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The reason for such an amendment is that an existing solution from the applicable Implementing Procedure Act, which the Proposer prescribed under the applicable law, should be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we from the SRS parliamentary group are submitting amendments to make the bill more precise and in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We do not want laws in the National Assembly to be passed quickly so as not to be at the expense of Serbian citizens. That is why we urge you to accept the amendments of the SRS parliamentary group on this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8059	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment which is referred to as "Article 36(1) is deleted". This point 1 reads: ‘If, after the adoption of the executive document, there has been a change in the rate of tightening interest, the Court will, on a proposal from the Executive Trustee or the Executive Debt, determine the payment of the tightened interest at the rate of change’. This is a completely unnecessary provision and will only create the possibility of delaying proceedings, especially by the executive debtor. This kind of request will never be filed by the executive trustee, because there's no reason for that. If an executive corrects an interest rate, it cannot be changed. If determined in accordance with the Law on the height of the rate of tightened interest, the rate that occurs at that time will automatically apply. Usually, when applying for execution, a few changes in the rate of tight interest have already been made, but this is taken into account. I don't know why this attitude 1 was introduced, when there were no problems in these situations so far and it can only create a situation for the executive debtor to delay the procedure, because the interest rate changes about a month and every month it is given the opportunity to ask for a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8061	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to the 40th Amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the minister of justice Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8062	We accept this amendment to Article 44 to delete Section 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8063	The MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to the 44th Amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8064	These members shall be subject to the costs of the executive procedure. I believe that there are a lot of legitimate reasons for this amendment to be accepted, for one simple reason that the enforcement procedure is the other side of a single procedure in which a man through a court resolves a disputed relationship and makes his claim determined by a court ruling, provided that the debtor does not voluntarily approach his obligation. In the end, all costs of the executive procedure shall be paid to the debtor. We believe it is not all the same that the trustee who had the costs until he received the verdict is now required to assume the costs of the executive procedure, and these costs will later have to pay in any case the executive debtor, as is now called under this bill. Therefore, the much better and simpler solution we propose to the amendment, which is that the costs of execution are always borne by the debtor alone, except in the case of an unfounded proposal for execution and withdrawal of a proposal that is not caused by compliance with the debtor's obligation, when the costs are borne by the trustee. So, in the event of abuse of authority by the trustees, he would have to pay the costs, because he unfoundedly initiated the enforcement procedure. In any case, it should be stated that the debtor is obliged to settle all the costs of execution and that the trustee is relieved of any advance on those costs. A team before he proved his right in the litigation process, resolved the disputed relationship in his favour, and he only wants the state to confirm its decision to fulfil the obligation. I get the impression that if this amendment is not accepted, then the advance on the costs of execution and uncertainty will come to a high-quality collection of the claim, to deter many creditors, not to be able to exercise their right that is no longer his, but to be guaranteed by the state on the basis of an earlier verdict in a litigation procedure. That is why it is necessary to accept this amendment. The debtor will always pay everything, and the trustee should be given the opportunity not to ask himself questions that he has conducted in the litigation process, when at even higher costs he can charge, that is, to enter into the uncertainty process, and whether he will charge at all, and practically finance the court and its costs. It is therefore good to accept this amendment and once again confirm what it has decided in the litigation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8065	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8066	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, section 59. The draft law on the enforcement procedure reads: ‘The party and the participant may request the court to remove irregularities committed by the judicial perpetrator in the implementation of the enforcement procedure’. Second position: “The Court will abolish the illegal and irregular actions of the judicial perpetrator”. On behalf of the SRS, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted an amendment and suggested that Article 59 be made. The bill is deleted. Indeed, it is logical and legal for this amendment to be deleted. What does it mean that only a court enforcer will suffer any consequences for a possible irregularity in the execution? I guess the judge running the case has some responsibility, too, because that bailiff is doing everything he does on the ground in accordance with a solution he has by the judge. I don't think it's a good idea to treat judges and bailiffs differently in this way. We don't have the right to protect either one or the other by law, but we don't have the right to put in different positions as judicial perpetrators. They're nothing lower than judges, as people, as workers, as employees in court. Everyone has his own responsibility, but the judge who conducts the execution procedure must have responsibility from the moment of the decision to execute it until the final execution of that solution. I believe that this amendment is perfectly correct and that it is necessary to accept it in order to correct the text of the law, so as not to create any discrepancies in the courts themselves, that we do not create fear among the perpetrators, that the judges remain fully protected in the executive procedure. I'm convinced that Mr. Stojkovic is here to accept this amendment, but he's just now ordering respected colleagues to accept you in Voting Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8067	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 61st Amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8068	I think it's a mistake to type in this text of the bill because what's prescribed in Article 61(4) can't stand. It is a situation where the court also decides on a proposal for a permit against enforcement. Just for an introduction to point out that this is a situation where execution was carried out. The trustee obtained this claim but was subsequently found to have either annulled that judicial verdict on the basis of which that claim was found to be sought or, in the course of its execution, the executive debtor voluntarily settled his obligation to the trustee, and the court was not informed of it, so he carried out the execution. In such situations, a solution shall be made requiring the Executive Trustee to repay to the Executive Debt what has been taken of it in the execution procedure. The parties to the proceedings must be in the same legal position and if the same fate of the appeal should also be in the case of proceedings against enforcement when adopting a decision on the execution of a statement of appeal which did not delay enforcement. Can't go against execution now, appeal to delay counterexecution. It can be stated but does not affect the very procedure against execution, the factual act of returning what has been taken away. This is how we practically have unequal participants in the process. One of them made a claim to the court. The second, also in court proceedings, acquired the right to return it to him. He can't appeal to the first one not to delay execution, and the second one, when he says in a completely identical situation, that he's not delaying execution. So I'm saying that maybe there was a missing word "no" in front of this text, that it was missed, so it came out this illogical and real proof of the inequality of the parties participating in the executive procedure. There was no such thing so far. Too bad the minister is not here, he would probably introduce that word "no" is missing and then removes this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8069	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to the 65th Amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Bosko Ristic and Vojislav Milajic submitted. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8070	The proposal should be reviewed by the Article. 65th and 66th. It's a bill of law. Here, in practice, the most direct play is the executive procedure. I will read as these members are called ‘Delaying the execution on a proposal from the executive debtor’ and ‘Delaying the execution in the event of reference of the executive debtor to a case or other proceedings’. We cannot accept that in the executive procedure, when a decision on execution is reached, the court is now instructing the executive debtor to initiate litigation and to question in some form the justice of judgments in the litigation procedure. If this is the case with the Law on Executive Procedure, then we do not need half the law on litigation because the question is rightly asked: “Why did I conduct the procedure? “ When an executive judge, an individual, can guide, independently of that, I could also be tolerated when it comes to third parties, but only when it comes to the form, manner, and means of execution, but if someone is referring to the facts concerning the basis of the claim that is more legitimately established, the law on the executive procedure denies the litigation procedure. Justice is denied. Legal certainty is denied and one court is questioning the authority of a long court for no reason. These amendments concerning this participation of a third party, a third party, an incorrect execution, a misappropriation, against execution, represent only the logical continuation of those amendments we have made to the introductory members of this bill. The question will rightly be asked why we are conducting a litigation procedure. What is the fate of the court's claim? What is the fate of a judicial obligation? So it's not about the contract or the legal obligation, it's about the obligation established by the highest authority in the area. Now some other authority is questioning that reference. I believe that if these provisions remain in the bill then, although I know that there is an intensity to make as effective as possible not only the litigatory but the executive procedure, they fall into the water. This will only go towards stalling. There will be a situation that a neighbor can appear, a relative may appear, but not challenge the form, manner and means of execution, but the existence of a claim, because he allegedly did not participate in a lawsuit, and this exercise concerns some of his rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8071	The word has a minister of justice, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8072	De facto this amendment binds to Article 22 and we accepted the amendment to that article and deleted it. That's how we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8073	Thank you. Members of the 67th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Bosko Ristic and Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers these amendments to be legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8074	I think this is the exact same situation as the minister. This is where the third person appears, the third person's proposal. It's exactly the same situation. Please, while we had some similar provisions in the Executive Procedure Act by 2000, you know that executive judges almost couldn't wait for a third party to appear with some of their rights. Please, don't make a mistake, we want to point out the provisions of this law regarding counterexecution. If necessary, build up the area with even more precise provisions protecting the executive debtor in the event that an emergency legal remedy falls. Give it to me. That's no problem. If you don't get me wrong, it doesn't mean a solution that's come to mind, it has to be implemented, there's nothing that happens later. It must be respected, but again if that authority decides in the litigation procedure. You will be in real danger if the Executive Judges refute that provision of Article 29 of point 13 of the property statement, that the trustee is unable to find out what he might claim. Yeah, he wouldn't know where to make a claim. Besides, it's a lack and a litigation procedure. You know, when the prosecutor doesn't know how to specify his claim, and some of the lawsuits are directly related to the future case of execution, that's a problem for both court and court. So, if we need to build up the anti-execution provisions, we need to give even more security to the executive debtor in case an emergency legal remedy goes down. That's where we fully agree. The principle of justice requires that something like that be. But if we let a swastika, a neighbor, a colleague from work, a firm, a certain execution clause in some case, he says: "Well, please, it's not my object, it's not my refrigerator" – although the fridge can't, but it doesn't matter – "Regal isn't mine, not he's in my apartment, I'm watching him, and it's the neighbors of Pere". You'll have a situation like that. And then there's the question of why we conducted the procedure. Strengthen the anti-execution provisions to guarantee the executive debtor that he too has security, but in those cases when an executive order falls. And like this, I'm just distracting you, so I don't speak names, there are judges who can't wait to hear from someone like a third interested person and he's putting the case down nicely and he says, "Run the case, exercise your right." Whether it's an executive or an executive lawsuit doesn't matter, you'll finish your job. It is not in the function of effective protection of citizens' rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8075	Thank you. The word was answered by Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8076	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members, I see the whole problem of the executive procedure, if we systematically view things as a relationship to the case – is the executive continuation of the case and is actually the person who has been authorized by a judicial verdict to call himself a trustee in the future, whether it enables him to achieve the full goal faster or shorter. Therefore, the implementation of the procedure from first-degree litigation to final execution. From that point of view, once a Yugoslav executive litigation procedure has often qualified in literature as a process that protects the debtor. We lived in that regime and in some ways we were a social institution for many years, wishing and under one previous thought that actually the debtor was poor and the trustee was rich. These are categories that came from World War II, and that's why our system was nakarad, and that's how it's pointed out. This is a chance to change that system. It's on a very good track what actually adopted the amendment to Article 65. The law and the judgment of the first degree and the action for the annulment of the arbitration ruling. However, I would quite agree that Article 67 is also similar to erasing. Why allow third parties to, precisely what Mr Krasic was saying, interfere with the course of one procedure. Let us try to strengthen the anti-executive assets and if we raise the anti-execution funds to a higher level then we will allow a normal course of litigation until its end, and we will allow all third parties who have been damaged by the right, or the debtor himself from the first degree and second degree judgments to be realised. Therefore, my appeal is only to try to think so, to strengthen the efficiency of the procedure and to adopt this amendment to Article 67. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8077	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8078	Ladies and gentlemen, I would have to agree with my two previous speakers, because if we deleted Article 22 and Article 66, why would we give third parties that possibility we denied to the executive debtor himself? So it would no longer be in accordance with this law, since it will not have a member of 22nd and a member of 66th, to remain a member of 67th. It's my finding after the adoption of these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8079	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8080	We of the SRS have been making objections to the Implementing Procedure Act for two days now. It's just amazing that there's not enough hearing for those who have an honest intention to improve this legal text. The adoption of a certain amendment does not essentially bring about what would happen if most of our amendments were actually adopted. One of my colleagues here yesterday mentioned the existence of a debt lobby, so there was a laugh on this side. Unfortunately, the truth is, this law has two characteristics. One is to delay the execution procedure, and the other is to definitely force the debt lobby. Believe it or not, it exists because there are various lobbies in this country and every day it appears for a new one. I think you should accept this amendment, as well as most, if not all amendments to the SRS, because it would be good to respect the fact that lawyers, ministers, deputy ministers, former and future ones worked on these amendments, and that knowledge and experience should be respected. When it comes to a specific article in 68th, I have suggested on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that this member be changed and said: "The court will postpone the execution of the time specified by the trustee. If the trustee has submitted a proposal to postpone the execution in the case in which the law provides that enforcement is to be sought within a specified time limit, the execution may not be delayed for a longer period than that time limit.’ In the draft law, there is this provision, but the other positions of article 68 should certainly not remain in the text of the law itself. Paragraph 3 of the proposed Article 68 states: ‘If the execution is delayed on a proposal from the Executive Officer referred to in Article 65(1) and (3), the execution shall be delayed until the end of the litigation or other proceedings’. This certainly should not remain in the text of this law, because it continues to create the possibility of abuse in the conduct of litigation, in the conclusion of litigation, order, and I understand the Minister's intention, and I suppose the Assembly, too, that, by changing and adopting new acts in the field of justice, we want to correct the situation in the judiciary. These provisions of the law certainly won't happen. On the contrary, what probably does not want to happen is that there will be more corruption in the judiciary, even more abuses, and it is not good to remain this position 3 within Article 68. It is also the last position that says that the execution is delayed on a third party's proposal, and at the time of the stay of execution, the deadline laid down in Article 3, should also be deleted, and on the existence of a third party in the execution procedure is sufficiently stated by my colleague Krasic and I think that he has really made enough arguments so that I am fully convinced that this amended Article 68. The bill, which I made in the amendment, would make a significant contribution to improving the text of the law and would contribute significantly to the work of courts, preventing and spreading abuse and corruption in the judiciary. I suggest that the minister and the assembly majority vote in favour of this amendment and adopt it to become an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8081	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 81st Amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8082	The problem known and it is about providing accurate data when clearly the debtor hides the property and thus, by hiding the property practically condemns the execution process. The court is authorised to request his notice of the location of the finding, and the previous trustee must make it likely that the executive debtor avoids, that is to say, hiding things prevents the execution. Peter Jojic's amendment requires that words be added: "a false statement sanctioned by criminal and legal responsibility for giving false testimony before the court". I fully understand that this formulation may not be adequate, but I believe that there is room for the Ministry and the Legislative Committee to find an adequate formulation for this situation, to be another asset that affects the debtor to make his property available to the judicial authorities. The Executive Officer cannot be in the same position as the defendant in the litigation procedure. Who thinks they're in exactly the same position is making a big mistake. In a litigation procedure, the defendant has his demands. In the executive procedure, he does not have such requirements. It can only have requirements affecting the scope, manner and means of execution. If it is quite obvious that he is hiding the property, then the state must in some way, as an executive court, force him to put that property into account, make it available and that it can be implemented by enforcement. This amendment is about, I think, Article 96. The draft law, as this concerns the census, and in 96 it concerns the consequences of giving incomplete or incorrect data, including a member of the 95th of this procedure. I'll take the chance, since all three amendments make one whole. He's a little slow about a criminal trial. I'm not sure that you've done a good insinuation here on the elements of a criminal act that resembles giving false testimony. Second, crimes are determined only by criminal law. So I suggest that maybe we should find a formula for these three members. We're about, we're thinking the same thing, we're sharing the same opinion that there's a need for seriousness. I suggest that, in the end, the Legislative Committee finds some formula that would satisfy this, that there is a seriousity, that the debtor knows he can't hide, that he can't joke with the court, because it's no longer a matter of him and the trustee. There was a lawsuit between him and the trustee. It's executive that he launched a proposal from the trustee. What goes further, mahma goes all by official duty, with the guarantee of the right of one side and the other, which the law prescribes. So there are already provisions that dictate some rigorousity, but let's not be unarranged in it. When this law is passed, each executive debtor must know what the consequences are if he hides the property, otherwise he wants to deprive the execution, abuses some of his rights in order to reverse the executive procedure against a third party or on another side, etc. He must know that he also suffers some sanctions, sanctions in the property, and other sanctions in the sense of contempt of the court and, let me say, procedural indiscipline.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8083	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 95 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8084	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, gentlemen of Parliament, we are at the point that this amendment cannot be accepted. Not only that amendment, but that whole head, members of 94 to 99, would have to be wiped out. She'd have to be erased for a number of reasons. We talked about it when we attacked the institute itself, which was mentioned in the opening part of the law, and now let's say that this is, above all, contrary to the principles of civil proceedings. You have in the very act of litigation a provision in Article 267 that no mandatory measures can be applied to a party who has not responded to a court's call for a hearing, or to force the party to give a statement. What has been kept so far has been in civil proceedings, litigation proceedings and in this bill. If that is not given in the litigation procedure, there is no logic that such an obligation exists in the executive procedure, because the party cannot be less free in the executive procedure than it is in the litigation procedure, where its right is determined. Secondly, there is no such thing as entering into a legal system, in which even public legal obligations, what a fiscus has the right, the obligation to pay taxes, it is in every legal system the highest, but Mr. Minister, not even a tax cannot be charged in this way, nor can the tax authority call and ask any taxpayer to tell him where his property is, where his account is, and that under the threat of criminal sanctions, he is forced to admit it, let alone in civil proceedings, in relation to private parties, where private-law relations are regulated. In the end, let me say the most important thing. It is not possible to pass this regulation and that it must be deleted in the provision of the Charter of Human Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, which is an integral part of the Constitutional Charter. In Article 16, where special guarantees are listed, the last statement states: “No one has to testify against himself or admit guilt.” Obviously, the testimony here is against itself, against its own interests, so it must certainly fall at the Constitutional Court. The other thing is that it might be effective, but it's opposed to morality, human freedoms, the general principles that we adopted and which, after all, have been until now, until someone who made this law remembered to introduce something like that. I remind you, and it doesn't take much to remind you that various other solutions are possible. It is still possible in the litigation procedure to introduce that the debtor can be detained, or sued, and to admit whether or not he is in debt. But you can't do that. It's possible to put a prison in an executive procedure, as long as he doesn't admit where his property is, but it's not done, because it's not the principle of civil proceedings. He's dealing with morale.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8085	Anyone else want a word? Yes, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8086	Every argument that my colleague made before me is unacceptable when it comes to the amendment to Article 95. Mr Zoran Krasic, in the context of the interpretation of the previous amendment, also spoke about the amendment of Bozidar Koprivica, in a way that proposed to place the point in Article 95(3) instead of the point of view and to add the words "which will be reached by the court within three days from the date of the scheduled hearing". What does that mean? This Article 3 of the Law states: “The Court will reach a solution on the forced bringing of an executive debtor if it does not act on the order of the court or does not access the court’s appointment”. This general provision really means nothing. This is not the only general and declarative provision in the bill of this law, but there really are a lot of them. They do not contribute to the acceleration of the enforcement process, i.e. the urgency of the legislator. If no period of action is set in which the debtor is to be brought in, then this provision does not make any sense and such a provision should not exist. If we want it to exist and we think it's necessary to exist, then it's necessary to say within what time-limit such a solution will be made. A colleague, Koprivica, suggested that it be a three-day term. I certainly think that this is an appropriate deadline, three days from the day of the scheduled hearing, since the executive procedure should be a quick procedure, and since this law was meant to be with that goal, but indeed this member, as well as some of which I and my colleagues have spoken of, is not in favour of the fact that this law, when you adopt it, will speed up the enforcement process. So the amendment to Article 95 is completely logical and really contributes to improving the text of the law. That's why I suggest that the amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8087	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 96, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8088	It is a member who prescribes the consequences of giving incomplete or incorrect data. Mr. Sarovic asked that this member be added to the new position of 3rd, which would read: "In the event that the debtor is incomplete and incorrect in the property statement, the court will apply the provisions of Article 46 of this Law," those fines. The question is once again raised whether it is possible to apply these funds to the executive debtor, and as provisions, small charters and calls for some provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are quoted, I have no intention of commenting, it is read correctly. However, this refers to something else. The person is not required to give statements that would be at his expense and can be defended and silenced. It's all characteristic of some procedures, especially criminal, although it's dangerous when analogy is used right and in litigation, but the executive doesn't. If we are already using the wrong analogy, then the Law on the Executive Procedure of analogy is found in the Code of Criminal Penalty. Unfortunately, if we misapply to analogy, there's a conviction of a person to a prison sentence or a fine, and here is a conviction of a person's property. So there's no direct conviction by name and last name, but the obligation only extends to property. I say, it's wrong to refer to analogy, it's always right to avoid analogy, because then they make mistakes, because they can't identify property and a physical face. They can't be faces and stuff in the same basket. We're here at that stage when the party used all these rights, protected by its interests and by law based on litigation. The question of authority, the physical possibility that the party that succeeded in the case is now more raised, is what the authority has acknowledged. Of course, take care of it, but these are provisions that prevent the defensification of execution. The execution is carried out, first of all, on property, and there are also those executions that are related to the fact and operation of a particular person, not to mention all forms and methods of enforcement and the kind of obligations that can exist. The fact that you've been saying it refers to a person's personality is in a criminal, litigation procedure, but it can't be applied by analogy in an executive procedure. Other provisions of the human rights corpus can be applied saying that it is obliged to respect the dignity of a person, to resort to the use of funds which, with the least damage per debtor, will be carried out in execution and the need for trustees, etc. It's all present, it's still present in this law. These penalty measures, the obligation to make a statement, please, it is not in the function of protecting the right whether or not there is a right, here is the function of the declaration to enable execution. So if you've done an analogy with a criminal procedure before, if you've done a litigation procedure... (Freedan Vukkovic, from the post: With the tax procedure. )......................................................................................................... The tax procedure is completely different. After these changes to the Tax Administration Act, the tax procedure, there are also some powers, but I have to say that these powers go so far that in some cases complete assets are seized and he doesn't need a statement, because he has already seized it, the tax authority has seized it. Not just about the tax authorities. Vračar municipality charged the rent through tax authorities to the tenants, and after two years everything fell into the water. If you're making an analogy of an executive procedure with a tax procedure, there's another mistake. As for each trustee, he would like his execution to be conducted in the tax procedure, precisely because of this efficiency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8089	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8090	I'd say something about this institute about making a statement, therefore, about the existence of property under the threat of a criminal act of fraud, unless the exact information is provided. This is one method that will contribute to efficiency, but it is contrary to the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, and is contrary to all the principles of civil procedure. If we wanted to find methods to force the debtor to carry out his obligation, it could already be done in a litigation procedure and say, instead of making a forced payment, to say that in case he doesn't meet his obligation and has the property, he'll go to jail. So we're making him sell his own property and pay his dues. However, civil-legal relations are not so premeditated. This is the relationship between the parties and the defendant must find the property, i.e. the trustee must find the property of the debtor and point to it, and the State is there, or the Court of Justice to only help make the necessary payment of the property, and there is absolutely no coercion against the debtor in order to obtain the necessary payment from his property.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8091	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8092	I'm just going to say the shortest way to say that this is not how criminal sanctions are carried out in criminal proceedings, and this is exactly what Mr Krasic said that in financial relations, i.e. in the tax procedure, the financial authority is confiscating, but when it finds the property, it can never call a taxpayer, so under the threat of sanctions, it says, "Come, sign, where your property is, so I'll confiscate it for you." He can't. It never was. We're introducing something here that's contrary to people's freedoms, and we've predicted it, there's no reason to be resilient about it. There is a member, no one can be forced to testify against himself, because that is one achievement that is worldwide. We just copied it, got commendation from the entire international community. We have to respect that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8093	Replica, Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8094	Please, no one testifys against themselves in the execution procedure, because the debtor is not in a position to testify. His statement is only necessary to identify the property, or where it is located. It's not a testimony. I guess you know how to testify. Don't testify to the statements, testify to the record in front of the authorities, before the court, this is where a statement is sought. He's making a statement on his own, so don't go after things. Do you want the executive trustee to stand in front of the executioner's house, and list who enters, and who goes out, to ask the neighbors where his property is located, to pierce his tire, so that the chariot may not be moved until the bailiff arrives? If that's what you want, let the detective agency finish the forced payment. That's how it would work out for you. I guess it's more right and humane that the debtor makes a statement and that the debtor somehow participates in the execution process. He doesn't care, he prefers to be sold a regal, rather than a garage. Why are we avoiding this? This is a very specific procedure. I really draw your attention that the trustee here warns you of the proposal and asks that the debtor has not voluntarily carried out the obligation he was bound by a court ruling, asks the court to implement its decision, what he has decided, and I agree with you. We can't move the entire executive procedure to the tax authorities, to the administration, and there, there are solutions. Read those books as they say, executing criminal sanctions isn't a court case, it's a prison by the authority of the administration, so nobody says it's unconstitutional and illegal. If the court executes its decisions, executes its decisions, criminal acts, then our courts would be good, and investigative, and even prisons of the county, as a prison for maintaining criminal sanctions. So the statement required by the debtor is not a statement he makes on the record to testify against himself, but to that extent he participates in how much to define the form, way and means of execution. It is the state's interest to implement it, because the state has guaranteed every citizen that when he initiates the procedure and receives it in a court procedure, it will allow him to make his claim effective. There's no violation of any freedom. We can't let the confidants find themselves in front of the debtor's house, drilling cars, waiting for the executioner to come and say, "That's his property." We're not gonna let that happen. What you're saying is that if his punishment is threatened, she can go on forever, no matter how much we limit her. And there's one of those provisions here that says that if there's no property, there won't be an execution. It's some minimum to take care of the debtor. Secondly, some things are excluded from execution, some things that are essential to human life. We don't let anyone hide the property and then it turns out to be a funny state. She conducted the procedure, gave the verdict, and it can't be carried out. I don't think that works for the lawyers either.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8095	The amendment was submitted to Article 98 by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8096	All these amendments that we're talking about today are merely attempts to specify some of the things in this bill's proposal, because it's really amazing how much generality and inaccuracies exist in the bill. I guess at least we lawyers know that the legal norm must be concise and concrete and that it must not leave the possibility of possible abuses. In Article 98. The proposal for a law in paragraph 2 states: ‘At the request of an interested person, the court is obliged to approve an examination of the book of executive debtors or to provide a notice of registration of executive debtors within three days of the day of the submission of the request’. What does “at the request of an interested person” mean? Who can appear as an interested person, or in what way will he prove to be an interested person? The truth is that neither this law nor this law, and we talked about it, should protect neither the trustee nor the debtor, but it should also not be brought into the situation by the trustee, the debtor, or their legal interest to be abused or particularly to be abused at the expense of each other. Every generality creates an opportunity for abuse. I therefore suggested that in this Article 98, in point 2 which I quoted instead of the word “interested person” be replaced by the words “persons that prove their legal interest”, because indeed, in order for someone to get the opportunity to make an insight into the book of executive debtors or to provide him with a notice of registration of executive debtors, he must prove his legal interest. Anything else would be abuse. We know well from practice, when it comes to executive proceedings, how many abuses occur, how many opportunities were there where trustees and debtors were in the process of litigation, and then the debtor before this, etc., because he was able to access certain data, and then certain creditors were left completely without property. This was particularly true in cases where bankruptcy property was involved, so I think this amendment must be accepted to prevent abuses and to know exactly who it is who can make an insight into the book of executive debtors.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8097	The word has the minister of justice Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8098	The government accepts this amendment. I don't think this is a more precise and clear formulation, and the actual entry of this property does not represent a public book in which anyone could make an insight. For that reason, I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8099	National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 99th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 155 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8100	Dear People's MPs, I suggested that in Article 192. The draft law adds Article 8. which will read: “If the trustee does not have information on the organisation, where there is a savings deposit of the debtor, he will call on the debtor to provide information about it under the threat of fines, by not delaying the execution of the complaint or appeal”. I think the debtor in practice avoids showing his account, which slows down execution and conduct, and I suggest that the court, by official duty, also asks the debtors to deliver this account to the debtors under the threat of fines, because in practice, most often happens that the debtor hides the account, all in order to delay the proceedings and prevent the execution of the trustee's claim. This is a comprehensive solution, and it would improve the legal text. That's why I'm asking you to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8101	The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 201. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to the SRS has been proposed for reasons that trustees are often unable to obtain accounts and data from which financial organisations or banks the debtor has funds and holds and through which he operates. In practice, the debtor operates through a third account called the so-called "Third Account". a service account, through the company with which the agreement is concluded and the problem is that the citizen won't. I had a chance, as a lawyer, to ask the debtors on behalf of my parties, and by written means, I suggest the court. The court can't even get that information. Even in certain situations, the court orders the trustee to provide accurate information on a financial organisation or other organisation where the debtor holds certain financial resources. That was only the reason why we wanted to warn the debt lobby's intentions, which went to prevent at all costs executions based on credible documents or judicial decisions. That is why I believe that this amendment has room for acceptance and therefore I suggest that the amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8103	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 206 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8104	All these three amendments are in direct connection because they regulate the way the account is executed in a savings account, and you see Article 206 concerns the foreign account of the executive debtor. An insight into the foreign exchange account of an executive debtor may only have a court under the Bank Act. It's classified information. In order to avoid a situation where a person has funds in his foreign exchange account, and here it is assumed that there are no funds, with this amendment, as well as with these previous two, it is practically possible for the court to speed up the procedure and not to bring the trustee into the situation that he is searching for the executive's personal data. The Court shall provide information on the funds in the savings book, on the account and on the foreign exchange account by its order. It's supposed to be the court's office. It would not be good for the trustee to go around the banks, guesses, inquire in the neighborhood or otherwise provide data, as it would not be good to imagine that there is no means to implement them, and in fact there is funds and it hides them. As a result, these three amendments were submitted in order to make the executive procedure more effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8105	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to Article 219 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Prosecutors accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 231st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Prosecutors accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 245 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8106	Dear People's MPs, I have proposed an amendment to Article 245(4) relating to the obligation of the forced payment organisation to provide the requested information without delay, i.e. the home number, the tax number, the names of the banks and the account numbers of the executive debtor, the name of the bank and the number of accounts, by adding at the end of Article 4, the following words: ‘if the debtor does not deliver within three days, the court will call on the debtor to deliver them within three days, which, if it does not, the court will act in accordance with Article 46 of the law until the debtor has acted on the order of the court, by not holding the appeal or appeal’. In practice, it is known that debtors will not give data, i.e. the data referred to in Article 245, they hide accounts, numbers, so it is logical that it should be sanctioned by the debtor being fined within the meaning of Article 46. This solution would only be useful and would lead to a reduction in the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8107	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Jovan Palalic and Goran Rakovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Prosecutors accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Parliamentarians Petar Cvetkovic, Jovan Palalic and Goran Rakovic submitted the amendment together. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Prosecutors accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Jovan Palalic and Goran Rakovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Prosecutors accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 268, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 269. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 305 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 306a be added after article 306a. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed this for practical reasons because in the current Implementing Procedure Act, this matter is very well regulated and does not allow many abuses. What do you want with this proposal? It is wanted to be authorised that a republican public prosecutor may request a termination of the proceedings and that he submits a request for protection of legality. At the small door, a republican public prosecutor should enter to interfere with the executive procedure. Powers under the applicable Implementing Procedure Act have been deleted from that law that applied from 1978. In practice, we will have a number of abuses from some powerful men who will ask for the involvement of a Republic public prosecutor, who should suspend the procedure, stop, and make a request for protection of legality and you have no right to appeal. Therefore, I believe that all the laws relating to how I proposed cannot be applied, and this should be expressed in transitional and final provisions, which means that there is no need for the public prosecutor to intervene here, because the general interest of the citizens is regulated by Article 3. Law on litigation and a large number of provisions of the Law on Liabilities. There can't be a place here, in the opinion of Serbian radicals and in my personal opinion, because as a lawyer, I've had a large number of examples that the public prosecutor only intended to prevent the execution of a certain court ruling, to postpone and not order the citizen, the trustee. A large number of such cases were and this led to major misdemeanors of the court, because if the court reached a first-degree verdict, if it was judicial, if even a review was made, and the Court of Auditors decided on these cases, there is no place to involve a public prosecutor in the executive proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8109	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice want to give the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have completed our work under this law, and I would ask that it be adopted, because we will indeed get a good, modern law on the executive procedure; a law that is truly fulfilling what has been asked of us – that citizens get some protection and exercise of their right within a reasonable time; a law that we have managed to ensure the acceleration of the procedure and at the same time the protection of the rights of the people involved in this process. I think this law is also extremely important because of potential investments, because now the investor will have the security of the possibility of charging in a relatively short time. I especially want to thank all of you for your cooperation. When I say this really seriously, and I mean it, because there have really been a lot of amendments that have been and how legally justified, and that have in many ways contributed to improving the very text of the law. There have also been some amendments that have indeed led to that goal which is why we are passing this law - speeding up the executive procedure. For these reasons, I thank you for your cooperation, and I hope that after the vote, this law will be passed, and the people will get what they really need, to exercise their rights within a reasonable time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8111	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since we're done with the first and second agenda, I'm setting a break by 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8112	Can we see if there's enough of us? I ask the MPs to insert the cards. Thank you. We're going to the next item on the agenda. We've established a quorum. I've invited MPs to establish the quorum. The computer's working. It's all recorded. 91 MPs are present in the O.R., so everything is in line with the Rules of Procedure. There's more of us than there is to be. I thank the People's Messenger Veretha for the warning, but we've done it. We're going to the next item on the agenda. I remind you that at the beginning of the debate, we concluded that we were discussing the proposal for a Law on Sanitary Control and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases in a joint principled search. With this in mind, according to the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the draft laws proposed by MP Miloljub Albianic, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The Serbian Radical Party Group has one hour of 38 minutes 24 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and these are three Social Democratic Party MPs, five minutes each, according to Article 89, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'll also inform you that, on the basis of Article 38. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group at points 3 and 4 of the agenda, shall be the National MP of Dr Paja Momchilov. The mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group for the 3rd and 4th agenda will be National MP Dr Goran Ilic. The mandated representative of the DS parliamentary club for the 3rd and 4th agenda will be Dr Dobrica Jankovic. Dr Zivodarka Dacin represents the SPS parliamentary group on the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – SUPPORT OF THE SANITARY CONTROL LAW AND PROTECTION OF THE PURPOSESES (joint principled search) Does the representative of Professor Dr Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, want a word? The word has a health minister, Dr Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8113	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government's proposal for reviewing the law on sanitary surveillance and the law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases is in front of you today, above all, as an expression of the desire to regulate our country's health care system. I am convinced that we will have the opportunity to meet and discuss many topics in this area and the debate on these two laws should be seen as a debate on two regulations that are unusually important in regulating the health care system. Long before the appearance of written documents in our people lived messages that we all know today and that our children hear when they first go to school, that the health of the mouth comes in and that purity is half the health, that it is better to prevent it than to treat it. These few maxes mark the beginning of what I want to say today. Sanitary supervision is in fact defined as inspection supervision of the application of laws and other regulations and the implementation of the prescribed measures in areas under sanitary supervision, with the aim of protecting the health of the population. The Sanitary Control Act, which we propose to you, is in fact a legal act that sets out the general and specific sanitary and technical and hygiene conditions for all facilities that are subject to sanitary supervision in accordance with these and other laws. Ensuring these conditions, as well as continuous, direct control of the control of their compliance, is one of the important conditions for the achievement of overall preventive healthcare. These conditions represent those conditions of importance for the protection, preservation and improvement of health, which are otherwise referred to by the provisions of a number of system laws which are governed by different areas: the area of production and public supply of proper drinking water, areas in the areas of service, the area of health law of life and general use, the area of education, culture, physical culture, sport, recreation, etc. It is precisely because of the importance and application in almost all spheres of everyday life that a special law clearly determines what conditions, facilities and areas under constant sanitary supervision are. In order to achieve full legal certainty, it is also necessary to precisely regulate the authority's competence and the process in which the Sanitary Control Procedure is conducted, as well as the scope of the powers of the sanitary inspectors in these procedures. The existing Law on Sanitary Control, which is now in force, was adopted in 1994, and introduced by smaller additions in 1996. The law regulated the issue of the health ministry's competence in the area of inspection supervision in the area of sanitary, hygiene and anti- epidemiical protection of the population, as well as in the part of the definition of the organisation, the authority and manner of the work of sanitary inspectors, following the then constitution of Yugoslavia and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. However, the Constitutional Charter has established the obligation of member states, so Serbia-Montenegro, to bring new regulations governing areas outside the state union's affairs. On the day of entry into force of the Constitutional Charter, the Federal Secretariat for Labour, Health and Social Ageing, consisting of the Federal Sanitary, Veterinary and Phytosanitary Inspectorate, also ceased its work. Therefore, he was responsible for overseeing the application of federal regulations that at that time referred to the protection of the population against infectious diseases that threaten the whole country, to the health regularity of life supplies and items of general use and to sanitary surveillance at the state border. The Law implementing the Constitutional Charter found that, in fact, all these powers are now transferred to the republican levels of government, which necessarily conditioned the amendment of the existing Sanitary Control Act. In addition to harmonising the provisions of the Law with changes made in the legislative system at federal level, it should be said that there have been new systemic solutions in the Republic of Serbia in the regulation of local self-government, planning and planning of space and building facilities, establishment of businesses, private sector organisations and the development of private entrepreneurship. Much of this new system solution has actually made the existing Sanitary Control Act difficult to apply in practice. In addition, the laws on local self-government, establishing certain competences of the autonomous province, businesses, private entrepreneurs, planning and construction, some new entities, new concepts and terms in the legal system have been established. The existing Law on Sanitary Control, in addition to the essential changes that are proposed, requires a termological alignment with the new legal, economic and, certainly, life-time terminology. The adoption of the Law on the ministries of a particular area of inspection surveillance has been taken over from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and defined as areas within the competence of the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection; firstly, protection, or cross-border air pollution, protection against ionic radiation, waste management, inspection control in the areas of production and transport of toxics and other hazardous substances. For those reasons, it is necessary to regulate in part the changed competence of the Ministry of Health in areas subject to sanitary supervision. The proposed law also represents a new project of clearly defined rights and duties of sanitary inspectors and parties in the sanitary surveillance procedures, thus fulfilling the legal principle of protection of citizens' rights and protection of public interest. The basic view regarding this law is that, at this point in time, in the current economic, political and legal environment, the law achieves the harmonisation of the basic principles of rational division of operations in the area of sanitary supervision in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia and the rational distribution of competences between the Ministry of Health, i.e. sanitary inspectors, which have over 300, and other state bodies with which in the part of defined work, according to existing solutions of certain system laws, the powers are overlapped in certain segments. This law also proposes new, more modern and more efficient solutions. The objective of bringing the economic and legal system into line with the European Union directives into a faster integration and harmonisation process is clearly defined, particularly in the area of protection of the population from infectious diseases and the areas of health control over the production and transport of life supplies and items of general use, as well as of persons employed in those areas. The main objective of the adoption of this law, as well as the purpose of the existence of a special service - the Health Control Sector, as part of the Ministry of Health, which actually carries out specific tasks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, through the work of 300 sanitary inspectors, is defined through the need to achieve overall, preventive protection of the health of the population. The law on the protection of the population against infectious diseases regulates the protection of the population against certain infectious diseases that threaten the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia, whose prevention and repression really have a general interest. The bill also sets out measures to protect the population from diseases that threaten the health of residents of the Republic of Serbia and clearly defines how they are implemented. The identification of infectious diseases in the way it is stated, as well as the definition of general and specific measures and ways to implement them, provides the necessary legal conditions of importance for the system of protection, preservation and improvement of health for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Modernising the provisions of this part of the legislative regulation actually conditions the innovation and other system laws whose standards define mandatory behaviour, aimed at protecting the health of people from infectious diseases that can be transmitted for example. life supplies, drinking water or direct or indirect contact. The regulation of the protection of the population against infectious diseases determines mandatory behaviours in various areas of public life: in the field of overall health protection of the population, as well as the regularity of life supplies and items of general use, public provision of health care with proper drinking water, areas of service activities – catering, trade and tourism, areas of provision of hygiene services, education, culture, physical culture, sports, recreation and others. In order to achieve full legal certainty in this area, it was also necessary to precisely regulate the scope of the rights and obligations of all participants in the procedures for the protection of infectious diseases, as well as the powers of the authorities in which the work of the control of the application of the provisions of this law has been carried out. In 1996, a federal assembly of the former state passed a Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases that threaten the entire country. We note that the Republic's Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases was introduced on the basis of the powers set out in the Serbian Constitution in 1974 and that it has not been formally put out of force yet. The Constitutional Charter established the obligation for Member States to adopt new rules governing areas outside the affairs of the state union, as well as for existing federal laws to continue to apply as laws of the Member States, until new rules are adopted. Also, on the day of entry into force of the Constitutional Charter, the Federal Secretariat for Labour, Health and Social Ageing, whose responsibility was to protect against infectious diseases that threaten the entire country. In addition to harmonising the provisions of the laws on the protection of the population against infectious diseases with changes made to the legislative system at federal level, new systemic solutions in the areas of the regulation of certain responsibilities of the province, local self-government, health care, sanitary supervision largely questioned the application of existing provisions of the law. The Ministry's Law found that the Ministry of Health performs the tasks of the state administration relating to: the system of health care, the content of health care, the preservation and improvement of the health of citizens and the monitoring of health conditions. In addition, all the jobs already mentioned in the context of the Sanitary Control Act proposal, relating to prominent border control, also refer to the proposal. Given that the administrative procedure presupposes a legal process without dispute, this law also represents a new project of clearly defined rights and duties of health services, natural persons, inspection bodies and all other participants in the procedures for the exercise of the right to protection against infectious diseases, which fully implements the legal principle of protection of citizens' rights and the protection of public interest. The basic position, as for the previous law, is that at this point, in the current economic, political and legal environment, this law achieves a measure of harmonisation of the basic principles of rational division of business. The list of infectious diseases is set out in this law based on recommendations from the World Health Organisation, the European Community Commission, as well as current epidemiological situations in the environment and analysis of quality control over certain infectious diseases registered in the territory of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of previous reports. The important reason for adopting the proposed law is also the need to bring the methodology of surveillance of infectious diseases across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to coordinate with the methodology of surveillance of infectious diseases in neighbouring countries and countries of the European Union, and to improve the co-operation of our health services with relevant services in the region. In fact, both laws represent significant progress in the regulation of the health system and relate to areas that are completely indisputable from the general interest. I expect the debate in the Assembly will show that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8114	I thank the Minister of Health, Professor Tomica Milosavljevic. Do the officials of the committees want a word - the Health and Family Committee? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs of Paja Momcilov, Miroslav Nedeljković, Mileta Poscurica and Milomir Dunjic, who issued an opinion on the draft laws at the meeting of the Committee on Health and Family, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8115	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs who are listed here, and these are Prof. Dr. Poscurica, Dr. Nedeljković, Dr. Dunjic, Dr. Cvetkovic and I, we have excluded our opinion on the Committee, and we suggest that you reject both proposals of the law for the following reasons. First, those are formal reasons. The assembly procedure is not respected in the adoption of this law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in Article 189, states: "The government determines the members of the Government who represent it on certain issues that are on the agenda of the National Assembly session, that is, at the session of its Committee. Representatives of the Government at meetings of the National Assembly and its committees may only be members of the Government. "Not for the first time here is the situation that comes to us so-called. Commissioners, who can be trustees of the minister and interpret certain things to him, and no substitute for the minister. Thus, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are again violated here. Of course, we don't want to make a drama out of it, but we don't think this is the way to do it in a serious parliament, especially when the eyes of the public are on us, especially when we have managed to create a negative image of our demands in public. What's typical and I, unfortunately, have to say today from this pay phone is that we're not lucky that the minister respects this committee in the right way. He also allowed himself to be forwarded to us, not in personal contact to tell us, that the Committee's conclusions were coming out of the responsibility of the Health and Family Committee. It suggests to us, I don't know what basis he's looking for - the Health Ministry is asking the Health and Family Committee to schedule a new session of the Health and Family Committee, where the Committee's conclusions will be put off the table and the Ministry's report will be adopted. It's all about those findings of the famous, of the transfusion. The board discussed it again and refused to communicate in this way again. Please, this is a typical example of demeaning the Committee, the MPs, and we of the SRS are protesting this. One more thing, this home wants to be our country's highest legislative home and is seeking adequate reward. We are increasingly faced, an SRS parliamentary group, by preventing freedom of speech and thought. At the last session of the Committee, which lasted an hour and a half, with all procedural matters, we discussed two laws, the minister said they were extremely important laws, and we have experienced that guests who came to attend the Committee unculturally earning that discussion about these laws can be conducted by me and the Assistant Minister in private. Please, if the hour and a half of this assembly house is much for these two important laws and can't wait that long to give, I wonder what we really are and how far we've come. However, in this Rules of Procedure, there is one censorship of thought and words that is sometimes practiced when we MPs have our five minutes and we can talk if we respect freedom of speech and thought. Of course, we must not insult or endanger others. This parliament, until it adopts, is one communist parliament, a poor parliament and should tell Serbian citizens that they know. Now I'm going to say, these were formal reasons, since we have five minutes at our disposal and since I respect your time, as you respect my exposure while I present, the essential reasons why we feel we should return these laws. First, if we talk about the law on sanitary supervision, narrowing down jurisdiction and transferring other, incompetent ministries is a bad solution for the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, and we will prove it in principle. Secondly, leaving sanitary surveillance to be a sector within the Ministry is jeopardising the quality of the work of this service, as our ministry is currently incompetent. Thirdly, the UN guidelines, or seven EU guidelines, are not respected, and we will give them a tax code. Here you have adopted a resolution on the accession of the European Union. You said our legal system has to be harmonised, and as soon as you're ready to bring it, you don't respect it and throw it aside. As for the law on infectious diseases, it is old-fashioned, it brings major problems in the practical work of doctors, does not respect international contracts and leads to large administrations. Finally, this law has the intensities to restrict human rights and freedoms, especially freedom of movement, and we will prove it. Therefore, we invite you to return these laws, I will not speak any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8116	I'm warning the MP that he's out of time. I thank you for your understanding. When I ask the press and the means of information to respect this home, I ask that the MPs also respect this home. This has been a multi-party parliament for 14 years since 1990. With respect to every political opinion and political option, when the communists sit here, then it will be communist, I don't mind, but citizens have to plead that only communists get it. Now there are various political options sitting here and I ask that it be respected, that MPs are not offended. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising article 100. Rules of Procedure. I was present at that session of the Health and Family Committee. What was the object of one MP was the way and way of holding a session of the Health and Family Committee. One thing is strange: when you attend the Committee, you are not sure whether it is the SRS Health Committee or whether it is the Committee on Health and Family of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Every committee president's announcement lasts more than a few minutes, and members of the Committee rarely get their word. Not to mention the other MPs, because I think that's the problem, not getting into Mr. Pai Momchilov's problem with the minister. It's really hard to work on that board. For each committee, we listen to lectures from representatives of the SRS, from teaching about other medical principles and rules to political motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8118	Dr. Pai Momchilov picked up the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8119	The matter is very simple and clear. Please, say – it is very difficult to work on our committee because Paja Momchilov speaks very much. No one in the position or opposition has said a word, no remarks, no praises about legal regulations, means that they should be adopted without a word. Paja Momchilov tried, thanks to his colleagues, to save time, not to talk, not to repeat ourselves, and to express the unique position of all MPs of the SRS. Paja Momchilov, when he heads this board, always says, "Whoever answers the word, please come in, let him talk as much as he wants, and he can say what he wants, let him answer the word neatly, and let him speak." There's one thing that bothers you: the facts we present, both me and my colleagues. I speak most of the nature of things, because I run that board. Tell me, when did I forbid you to speak, when I took anyone's word? When you say that, I'll apologize to all of you myself. Mr. Chairman, why are you angry when I say "communist", you're a socialist, it didn't apply to you, far away.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8120	Please interpret me correctly. I'm just asking the People's MP Dr. Pai Momchilov to interpret me correctly. I was very precise. This is a multi-party parliament, I won't mind that when the communists get absolute authority and all 250 MPs, they sit down too and say it's communist, and for now it's multi-party. Otherwise, so I wouldn't be angry, and I said very precisely, that all 250 would be communists, if that's the will of the citizens, and that's one question. Second question, please do not discuss the Committee's work here at the Assembly in terms of respect for the Rules of Procedure. If there is any objection to the respect of the Rules of Procedure during the work of a committee, I would ask that those who have objections to the instructions be told whether or not the Rules of Procedure are being broken, and that will be the case for the National Assembly and MPs of the National Assembly. When it comes to attending the Committee meetings, more because of a reminder, Article 190 says very precisely: "For the sake of providing expert and other explanations, at the session of the Committee of the National Assembly, the Government can determine its creditors. "Of course, when it comes to a session of the National Assembly in the third position of Article 189, it says very precisely: "Government representatives at meetings of the National Assembly and its committees can only be members of the Government." These are two different positions when it comes to those present at the meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly, and I don't think there are any ambiguities about that, but more reminders do. Does Miroslav Nedeljkovic answer the question after he singled out his opinion? No, I don't. Mileta Pocurica? No, I don't. National MP Milomir Dunjic? No, I don't. ( ) Do representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Zivodarka Dacin, representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8121	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, I am truly disappointed in the fact that the health laws are on the agenda. Especially when there are two of these, as if we're trying to introduce some negative energy, to conflict our opinion on a topic that really shouldn't be absolute politics. I have always been an advocate of this, and I believe that this implies that when topics of this sensitivity are in question, there should be an absolute agreement on what it is that we do well for the citizens of Serbia, to improve them anyway because of the difficult economic conditions at risk of health. Of course, I expect there to be a lot more stories when they come to the agenda of system laws, such as the Health Security Act, the Health Insurance Act, because there will certainly be enough disputed points around which we will try to defend all our views and by the programs of the parties we stand before. Today we have a bill on sanitary surveillance and a bill on the protection of the population from infectious diseases, and I was really convinced that there would be no big dispute about them. Why do I say that? First of all, we all agree that what we all care about is health. These are two laws that are absolutely of general interest and we at the SPS at the MP's club have one serious grudge, and that's primarily whether the government was a trom or the Assembly didn't have enough hearing to put these two draft laws on the agenda when it was meant to be done, and it was at least 10-11 months ago, because it was finally something that was binding. It is clear why these two draft laws are being held in a united debate. Logically, their basic problems are identical. On the one hand, we have a bill on the protection of the population from infectious diseases, and on the other hand, a bill on sanitary surveillance, which can, in the good part, prevent the occurrence of infectious diseases, especially when it comes to hygiene, life supplies and water, but in terms of life supplies. We saw this simply as an essential need that arises, because in the light of the law... We have to remind ourselves, these two laws were an emergency procedure, and I'm sorry as well as a man and as a health worker why it didn't happen in June or July, even though it was already a missed term. Why? First of all, it is said that there is a obligation to comply with the laws under the Law on the Action Plan for the Harmonisation of Economic Systems of the Member States of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to prevent and remove obstacles to the free flow of people, goods, services and capital, which, of course, stem from the signing of the Constitutional Charter. Dear colleagues, we in the SPS always talk very objectively and specifically about all the laws and write amendments where we think we can make a positive move. In this case, these are several laws of technical nature. If we even listened to Mr. Minister's opening statement, if we followed, and there are plenty of us that are a little longer in this assembly home, we have seen practically that there has been a need, respect for all the laws that we have passed here in the Serbian Parliament. Practically, there was a regrouping of everything that existed in some laws, which are valid even though by all standards they should no longer be. So, all of the sanitary surveillance that belonged to other areas, it's from this bill isolated, everything that should have been passed was put into this law. Also, on the basis of the proposal for a law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases, there were objections to the Committee on Health that since the classification of infectious diseases, this law contains absolutely everything. Of course, there was controversy about why 70 infectious diseases, and why not less, as the World Health Organization prescribes, although it makes recommendations. It is simply because we have experienced and analyzed the infectious diseases that exist in our country, in the country of Serbia, that have been eradicated, and where we are fortunate that none of these are ever happening to us again, but that is life above all. Despite these 70 listed diseases, we often face the problem of the outbreak of infectious diseases that are unknown to our territory, or to say, they are not specific, and let's remember, it was almost when we were all very seriously concerned, whoever was getting pneumonia, that there was no chance of SARS disease. An unknown disease, and the fear of the unknown is the greatest. In this law we even foresee that if, as the people would say, "don't God," something like that could happen that the minister could be the one who will prescribe quarantine and prevent the possible spread of such a serious disease with unspeakable consequences. We cannot understand that Serbia is a state and that we are a country that must have its own legislation. I think we should be more content, because we know that so far there's been a lot of regulations. The federal law, which has not existed long ago, and this republican law did not cover everything, because there was a division of intelligence. Now virtually there has been maturation and finally that for the first time as the Republic of Serbia, or to say the state of Serbia, we have this bill. And what I would mention here, simply because the debate is still united, I think it's very important, which is that, in the proposal for a Sanitary Control Act, the practical control of the flow of people and life supplies at the borders is being carried out by our sanitary inspectors, by all the regulations that are laid down here in the law. I would say that these two laws may be the only two laws I would have nothing to say about in that critical sense, unlike all the other laws we're always prepared to compromise on. Our desire can only be that these laws are absolutely respected and that they are not just some logistical support, and that, like many laws, they remain just a dead letter on paper. I advocate that, above all, the much more quality work of the Republic Sanitary Inspection belonging to this law and that it be provided with all the necessary conditions for objective and reliable professional work, in order to prevent, God forbid, any epidemic as a consequence of the bad ingredient that exists in food, in drinking water and in everything that can endanger health. So it's about laws that we can only strive to enforce as they're written. One more thing that is very important, because probably all colleagues working in health care institutions belong to this risk group, and in this proposal, the law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases is foreseen, as has been so far, but in some modified form, vaccination and protection of high-risk groups of employees. I would really like the Ministry of Health to provide in the Republic of Serbia's budget enough funding so that what happened three years ago in health care institutions, when that vaccination started to protect health workers, so when there wasn't enough resources to comply with the whole protocol, and that part of the first vaccines that were given and distributed, that money was thrown from the financial aspect, and absolutely couldn't be done from the protection aspect. I would like to say for the first time that MPs of the SPS Group will support these laws as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8122	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go, Paja Momchilov, authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8123	Dear colleagues and colleagues, since we have already highlighted the main points to challenge our proposals, just to remind you, as far as the Sanitary Protection Act is concerned, we have said that narrowing down the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection, i.e. monitoring what the law calls it, we consider a bad solution to the existing and solutions that exist in the environment and in the world. We said that we consider it a bad solution that sanitary supervision should be one sector within the Ministry. We think it should be either the administration that has its director and one drive that will have hundreds of people, can normally function and work. On the other hand, we know that in one of the studies that foreigners worked for the ministry, which was paid for about 105,000 dollars, the inspectorate was given advice to set up within the Serbian Ministry of Health, so it may not be a waste of respect. You're saying there's no dispute here and we're running this debate for political reasons. We lead both from political and we don't consider politics to be something that's pervasive and that's bad. We're politicians. However, since I am a doctor, I also allow myself to lead this debate as a doctor, to have some expertise. That knowledge isn't always enough, I have to admit. Then it is our custom, Serbian radicals, not to be wise with our limited intelligence, but to ask prominent experts from our profession, who are known names, to advise us, to see this problem, and to come up with some solutions in a joint debate. These public debates in Serbia today, when it comes to healthcare, are gone. Let's start from the beginning. Let us look at the reasoning given for the adoption of such a law and see the legal basis. One legal question, this is politicization. "Being in mind that sanitary supervision is defined as inspection supervision of the application of laws and other regulations and the implementation of the prescribed measures... ", then says -- "indirectly it could be implemented from Article 72 point 7 of Article 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which found that the Republic of Serbia is regulating and providing a system in the area of health. "When you take the Constitution of Serbia and the member concerned, who says, "The Republic of Serbia regulates and secures" to skip all members, and says "7) the public service system." What kind of public service system when it comes to sanitary surveillance? I'm looking for an answer. It can't be an indirect constitutional basis for this. You have above that – a system in the field of health (point 6); that you called for it, so that man may say, "Yes." What you called yourself is point 11) and it can. If you take the Labour Act, it's about state authorities and public services. What kind of relationship is that? What does that mean? How can this be a public service? Explain that to us. Let the lawyers explain it, but please don't write such misunderstandings in such reasonings. We said the title itself was inappropriate. The title is - Proposal for a Sanitary Control Act, and we say that it is actually a sanitary inspection, because the law treats work, the subject of work, the field of work of sanitary inspection. Sanitary surveillance is something wider. Sanitary surveillance is conducted in medical institutions, but not carried out by a sanitary inspection. Therefore, it should come from what it is and call it the law itself. In order to be absolutely clear, we believe that when it comes to sanitary surveillance, it should start with the fastest definition. We believe that sanitary surveillance is not what is written here, but what is a textbook definition, which is that sanitary surveillance is an inspection of the implementation of laws and other regulations covering the supervision of persons and works, construction facilities, rooms and spaces, facilities and devices that could in any way adversely affect human health and sanitary conditions. It is a general definition and certainly must, when it comes to health, and it is an inspection that deals with health, to be complete. There can be no exception from this context to poisons, noises, harmful effects of smoking, ionizing radiation. The Ministry of Science can deal with these problems, but it is not qualified to appreciate health hazards. That's why there are specialists in medical professions whose jurisdiction it is. Take the lands around, Croatian law. In law, it is all numbered, the Croatian law does not put it beyond itself. Because of this old-fashioned interpretation, where we gave it up because of one regulation about the ministries, and a bunch of others skipped over (I can also quote what other legal provisions we skipped), we came into a situation to get a car of radioactive material to Nis, to get us lead poison through Presevo and not to tell us any other data. We have come to the conclusion that we cannot detect a radioactive blueberry, but we need Montenegrins to tell us that a radioactive blueberry is being imported into this country. He's got a lot of problems. Our border is terribly ugly. The reason is that this ministry has waived jurisdiction and directly threatened the health of Serbian citizens. This is where one of the loudspeakers was made. There's a normal man here who can't come up with definitions and concepts. When you read the text yourself, then it's said - the area and objects are determined. In Serbian, the area is territory, and this can be – work and facilities. Then we can specify exactly which objects. On the Committee I received an answer – our Constitution regulates. He can in the socio-legal sphere regulate what he wants, in health care he can't. We speak medically, we Serbian doctors, yet in Serbian; when we do not have adequate terms we use Latin, and we also use Anglo-Saxon. We don't use other terms or terms. It has to come from a general definition, it can't be thrown out of this thing we said. We will explain that in detail in our amendments. What does this sanitary law, according to us, have to ensure by implementing the measure? The protection of the population against infectious diseases, the protection of the health and safety of life-threatening foods and objects of general use in production and transport, the protection of the health status of the population. That's where we pick up exactly what the law should contain. Now, that's where it's all scattered. You can't figure it out, you don't know what the object is, what the object is, or what the area is. It's a galamatias. We have taken these solutions from previous laws that have regulated this area in a pure, beautiful Serbian language, understandably. Why does it bother someone now and why someone calls it politicizing, I don't know. We have precisely defined this by our proposal, since we have made counterproposals, and we do not criticise us because we believe we should criticise the criticism for the sake of it, but we always give our own solution, which we consider to be right. Of course, we don't always have to be right. What's very interesting about the adoption of this law is that you had the opinion of the Institute of Veterinary Research in Novi Sad that required the rejection of this and the return of the old proposal. Therefore, if this institute has done so for the sake of the SRS and if this is politicisation, gentlemen MPs, I will agree with you. Here he is, so I don't read what they wrote and why they're asking for the law's withdrawal. Don't ask the SRS for political reasons, it requires discipline, science. What is still very interesting to you who are Europeans, here is the opinion of Karl Bro, who, when speaking about this law, says where the European Union's regulation is not respected. And here, there's a taxi number of seven directives here, and a certain Mrs. Maja Sandic, an expert on a project that works for our ministry, has signed it. If that's the same politicisation, okay, and this is our expert team that worked, the Serbian Radical Party, I'll agree with you distinguished colleagues. You have a bunch of memos from the Department of Agriculture, which I won't read. So, one resorient ministry with three or four submissions that opposes these solutions, that's also politicization for you, so that's not a profession... (President: Mr. Momchilov, will you use the other 10 minutes? Yes, in continuity I'll take advantage of all of this. We also believe that there are illegal legal solutions in this law, i.e. the law is on the one hand and insufficient, it does not determine some things that need to be decided any closer, but allows that when sanitary inspectors are concerned, it is also someone who is found with higher expertise. Please find me the regulations of the European Community, find me country regulations in an environment that predicts such an opportunity. So, what's going on? What kind of explanation did we get on the board? We got a replacement thesis. They say – we have people going to the sanitary school and we have a higher sanitary school. Well, those people should work. When a biochemist has a lab, that lab guy does a lot of work, some people do everything, and a biochemist gets signed. The Sanitary Inspector is a person with special powers, which should lead and administrative dispute, as a task; and now you want to delegate such powers to someone who is not competent enough, in today's time when your bureaus are full of experts, when you have people crying out for work from the professions that you predicted to be your sanitary inspectors. There's another thing that you're still going on, and you say, and you've explained -- that it's our socio-political situation, that if someone finds themselves and isn't with certain qualifications, they should remain as a sanitary inspector. It cannot stay and should not stay, if you want to introduce modern solutions, not to make precedents, but there is another thing – you are obliged to write in transitional provisions that you owe these people, within your ministry, to hire and find them suitable jobs. That would also be fair from a human point of view justifiable. What is another of our objections – you have centralized the maximum and terrible of this service. We're talking about decentralisation, we're talking about privatisation, and you haven't given jurisdiction or the opportunity to think there's a city health inspector. There are some jobs that may be less complicated, which these city health inspectors would do nicely. It knows both the world and our environment. I appeal to the Croatian law again, take it and read it, you'll see what it looks like. But let's move on to this other law. There'd be talk of this for a long time, I hope from a professional point of view, not a political one. I think we can move freely to this other law. The law on protection against infectious diseases is also an important law. What we have put as a principled remark is that we have pointed out that he is imperfect. We said it was inappropriate for the countries of the European Union. And here, right now, let's catch that 70-odd disease number, which is defined here. We have through the amendment given what the European Union directive requires, which is 2119/98 EC, which in its annex gives and defines diseases in the way Europe sees it today. What you've given, as you say the World Health Organization has given, is perhaps, but it includes Africa, while we live in Europe, we want to go to Europe and we're talking about harmonising laws with European laws. Well, if that's the case, then you should have put that on this specification. Why all 70 diseases have to be reported, I'm asking you. And today, whoever wants to be honest and realistic has to admit that you don't even have 100% registration for typhoids. It is a reality in Serbia, and you are now looking for additional coercion; we are not able to report what we are supposed to do today, and you are still extending it. There's no need for that, that's for sure. Next, you're talking about definitions here. We had a dispute on the board about what that definition was. He says to me, "I'm an authority." It's not a definition. It writes well – some expressions used in this law have the following meaning. I again call on the European Union and the definitions given in the acts of the European Union, that is the document (maintaining in the hands of materials), copy and translate it properly. This definition lacks two or three key things, which you didn't see, you didn't know, so she's a dork, old and can't be good for Yugoslavia when she's not good for Europe. Just read this and I won't waste my time, and you find me a document from which you prescribed this, to compare the documents, so let me say, yours is a newer, more modern, a great honor, that's the way to do it. (Comment refers to the dropout from the O.R.). Now, talk like that, please, not by throwing, and then -- the guy's a usurper, the guy who doesn't need to be allowed to talk because he's uncultured. I'm sorry, this culture of yours is looking around here today, in these parliamentary benches. Further three or four attitudes contain incomplete definitions again. It's the same document, I call you, I don't want to translate literally, I don't need to read to you. But what it says in Article 4, be careful – applying the measures set out in international conventions, or saying that international conventions will be applied, and no one here says what the convention is. I've been given an easy answer – well, we're not going to write now, the law's changing, so we keep writing changes. Look at any law of the European Union. The one on which I'm particularly showing you three pages is marked by the changes followed by this law and the last version given for adoption. The real laws, our old laws had all the changes numbered. When you refer to a foreign convention, you have to specify it, name it, and you're even obliged to say when it's ratified with us, that it's binding for us. Those charlatan explanations of yours are really not going to be accepted and adopted. We'll always answer for the word, waste your time, as long as you don't behave differently, until you start acting professionally and the way the whole world behaves. In Article 4, for example. It is said that the measures laid down in this law have the highest priority compared to other health care measures. Well, if that were even true, this law can't regulate it. It must be regulated by the older law, which is part of the law we refer to the lawyers, and it is known which is the older law, it is the health care law. We can't see that law, there's no law, nor is there a law that regulates the financing of health care. These are the system laws that had to precede this proposal, and only then would we be able to talk about this so-called. technical laws. This law is full of unnecessary administration. I specifically point to Articles 12 and 13. Then, if an article 19 is taken, it states tuberculosis, which is now on the rise with us, and our ministry has taken one major project, it has received a donation for tuberculosis. Why don't you regulate the area by law according to these modern principles of DOC? Why do you keep the patient quarantined and say – while he is potentially infected with the environment. Only 10% of tuberculosis patients should be hospitalized according to these documents. They should be hospitalized people with severe complications. When you talk about quarantine, the minister cannot determine if another disease occurs, that quarantine is needed. The international world organization may, if a disease occurs, make a recommendation and we will certainly adopt it. Quarantine is in one obstructive and strange way here defined as a prison. That is exactly what is contrary to the new international rule that will be adopted in May 2005 and you should know that. It prevents quarantine from being carried out the way you predicted. Since my time for speech is running out, I urge you once again not to adopt the bill. The MPs of the SRS will surely be against him, and you can, by the terror of the majority and the congregation terror, vote this. This is going to stay as a permanent document, this is going to be looked at sometime, and someone might think about it, and someone's going to laugh.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8124	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is from MP Goran Ilic, the mandated representative of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8125	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Minister, today two important health system laws are on the agenda, especially important for a country like Serbia, because, unfortunately, after economic development, it is on low scales compared to European countries. It is precisely these countries that are exposed to the emergence of infectious diseases, unfortunately some diseases that we see in other developed regions of Europe are rarely occurring, and therefore the particular importance of these laws which primarily improve the area of preventive action in the health system and prevent these diseases from occurring. Hence, probably one of the reasons for spreading the list of infectious diseases that threaten us from the one adopted by the European Union. The two laws are completely complementary and it makes sense to adopt them at the same time. We've already heard today that in this area so far, due to the new circumstances of state order, contradiction and overlapping jurisdiction. As doctors, we welcome that the lawyers have decided to help us, but of course, without the medical foundation, these laws would not have been created, in order for these areas to be well regulated. In order to properly implement this overall preventive health care in order to preserve and improve the health of the population, laws from different areas need to be harmonised. We had this Federal Secretariat for Labour, Health and Social Care, which has in its jurisdiction part of the obligations that are now being made to the Ministry of Health and the Family. Of course, these are very important elements of the health system, such as prevention of infectious diseases, control of the regularity of life supplies and supervision at the state border. It is now the jurisdiction of the Republic Inspectorate and we hope that this law will allow this concern to be better regulated in the area. These new and modern legal solutions are in line with the new Law on Local Self-Government, laws in the field of economy, and they must certainly comply with the Health Protection Act, which I suppose comes in the coming period for adoption into the Assembly. When we talk about the laws of this speaker, it is often one of the key arguments that harmonizes our legislation with the regulatory countries in the environment with which we are referred to co-operation and also with the legislation of the European Union and the legislator claims, and we who have read the law confirm that this harmonisation of this law is possible and that it will be achieved. Of course, this law provides for an even distribution of the competences of different entities, which has been heard from this pay phone today, and the DSS has been constantly insisting on that decentralisation, and we assume that if these services are within the Ministry, it will be well regulated and that people on the ground will be able to directly contact the problems of this area to regulate them properly. I suppose these sublegal acts will come or already exist and will be complemented in the best possible way by this law. It's about the areas this law deals with, and I'd say it again, because I think they're very important. It's about protecting the population from infectious diseases that threaten the whole country. There is a newspaper here, precisely because of this new regulation, that this law provides for the supervision of persons and life supplies to be the inspectorate's authority at the Ministry, which was previously in the jurisdiction of federal authorities which today practically do not exist and that it will enable prevention, repression, elimination and eradication of infectious diseases, as we all expect. The newspaper is also the new authority of sanitary inspectors in the control of life supplies; it is also one of the important areas and in the control of the regularity of drinking water, where water is considered a lifeline. What is the area of some other ministries is not governed by this law. It's thought of water that's used in a different way. The subject of this law is water as a food supply, and we think it's a good solution. The law regulates in a similar manner and obligations of legal persons, the authorisation of sanitary inspectors, planning and editing of space, and as such a prescribed condition for the establishment of a plan and in law, the pre-established health conditions are established through technical documentation. This is very important for these facilities to be properly built. The law regulates the powers of sanitary inspectors, rights and obligations and conditions that must be met by those persons. The solution that provides that those who did this job at the time of entry of this law, and with a different education than what this law provides, can continue to do it simply is the principle that we had in some other laws. So, taking care of the people who do this job and who have proven by their experience that they can do it. We at the DSS think it's not an obstacle to modernising the country and this system. You remember we talked about a similar solution in the Drug Act. Although the problem was similar, we supported the principle that this area is being regulated in this way, and of course new, young and educated people will come with valid qualifications and slowly replace those who have done so. It's completely complemented by the law on protection against infectious diseases. This law, first, sets out a list of these infectious diseases, defines general and extraordinary measures and ways to implement them. Practically, it is a legal basis for improving the health system, health care system, preservation and improvement of the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia. A list of infectious diseases, as I said, contains 70 diseases. This is compared to 39 diseases predicted by the European Union, but according to the legislator, it is made up of recommendations from the World Health Organization, the European Union Commission, but also of our epidemiological experiences. What's good is that the possibility was left, when some new dangerous disease occurred, that the list should not be closed and that the minister, according to his authority, would include some of these new dangerous diseases. He mentioned himself here and SARS. Monitoring pneumonia in one special way allows, although SARS is not on this list, to correctly consider the danger of this disease and to take appropriate measures, if necessary. And here there was a overlap of jurisdiction. There was federal law, there was the Federal Secretariat for Labour, Health and Social Ageing, which ceased its work, and whose responsibilities shifted to the Republic Ministry. This law is governed by it. He was necessary to make this system work. It has already been said today that the law has foreseen solutions to problems in this area. Certainly, we expect the sublegal acts of offices in a more detailed way to the elements of that system. Of course, we welcome the role of the Institute for Health Protection of Serbia and the relevant health care institutions, because it is important to function this network, this system, and to respect professional opinions; there are rights and medicine completely complementary, monitoring the movement of infectious diseases, gathering, analysing and distributing data on epidemiological surveillance. (President: Will you be of use to the other ten minutes? Yes. This system that exists needs to be nurtured and developed. It will allow us to prevent these diseases from occurring in an effective way, and we hope that we will not get into a situation to deal with other emergency measures if they do. Some experiences and definitions of the Serbian medical community are also mentioned here. We at the DSS also welcome that the expert opinions of these organisations are respected in writing this law. Of course, the law provides for general, special, extraordinary measures, epidemiological surveillance measures in emergency situations, which were expected and which was similarly regulated by the old law. What's good is that it's a special accent put on stopping hospital infections. It is something that is in Serbia, unfortunately, reality; occasionally, but reality. The Commission for Protection against Hospital Infections provided by this law is an instrument we hope will effectively address this complex problem. We know on what conditions our health care facilities are working on. We hope that this will improve in the next period more and more, but these intrachospital infections must be prevented. It's a good thing the law paid special attention to that. Article 34 also mentions the provision of services in special facilities of legal entities and entrepreneurs, today it is quite up-to-date, where classical medical interventions are not provided, but hygiene, beauty, non-medical and aesthetic interventions. In our cities, it's a practice. It is good that the law provides for conditions to prevent the occurrence and spread of infectious diseases even in these places, where many of us think that such a danger is not threatened, and unfortunately, experience shows that it is not, but experience is different. Of course, the law provides for the obligations of all participants in this process, the powers of sanitary inspectors, etc., in accordance with the Law on Sanitary Control, regarding the control of the state border itself. In particular, I would draw attention to Article 8 which, in very significant general terms, makes preventive measures to prevent infectious diseases, talks about the provision of proper drinking water, the sanitary conditions in the facilities of social activity, and in point 3 on the removal of human and animal secretions, corpses, organs and tissues, waste water, etc.; something perhaps at first sight by most citizens does not represent the possibility of a possible problem. My experiences, as a doctor of judicial medicine, specialists, show that this area has not been properly regulated so far, i.e. that the law in this area has not been properly applied. We hope that this explicit solution to strictly control this area will be properly arranged and will allow a practical problem to be dealt with in the right way from day to day and that there are no consequences that can arise from this. All in all, it is two significant legislative projects, mutually complementary, which regulate this area legally under the emerging circumstances of state regulation and some new legal regulations. We believe that, under the sublegal acts arising from this law, this area will be better arranged, and that directly means improving the health of the population. I repeat, the problem of poor countries is greater than developed countries. Unfortunately, we're still in that zone and out of it, hopefully, we're coming out, but we have to take care of these problems strictly. It is good that these laws have come in relatively quickly, in all that we must adopt in this congregation. Of course, I expect complementarity with the health care law, which should soon be adopted in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8126	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? Here you are, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8127	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today we are discussing very important health laws. I don't want to qualify in advance whether it is or not political demagogy to be against these laws, but I want to tell you something. Last Saturday in the Assembly was open - door day, and I was among the few MPs who had the pleasure of talking to the public in the Assembly. Citizens have an understanding of our political differences, and they understand that we think very often of things differently. The basic question that has been repeated in all the groups of citizens visiting this home was - how is it possible that you always have different attitudes and how is it possible for all the issues that are of utmost importance to the population and to the citizens of Serbia to have very different attitudes? Believe me, it was not easy to explain this to the citizens of Serbia, as I believe today is not easy for the opposition to explain to Serbian citizens the proposal that these laws should not only be amended, but that they should be completely withdrawn from the procedure. Why is it not easy to explain this to Serbian citizens today? Because I have to tell them something, which is the fact that, unfortunately, at this moment, this area in our country is not well-organized enough, that there is a real danger of carelessness, the irresponsibility of people who are in charge of caring about the hygiene of foods or about all those areas that need to be under sanitary supervision, essential to the health of our citizens. So there are no clearly regulated procedures, there is no clear system of responsibility and unfortunately there is no clear criminal policy in these areas. That's why in our country sometimes situations happen that we don't want to happen again. Of course, clear laws should be passed, of course, to regulate these areas, of course, that the Ministry of Health is coming out of these laws to meet the needs of citizens and one basic need, the need for national interest, and that is the need for citizens' health to be first priority. That's what these laws do. The Law on Sanitary Control and the Law on the Prevention of Proliferation of Infectious Diseases is currently being regulated by the area of protection of the health of citizens, to the extent most significant and in the area of preventive protection of the health of citizens. I would say that nothing is more expensive than health, that's what our citizens know well, and I would remind you of another one of those people's wisdom "better to prevent, than to heal". To prevent it, we need to have clear procedures and a system of responsibility and everything these two laws regulate. It is therefore important that these laws be adopted in the congregation and therefore it is very difficult to be against these laws. Why aren't all these procedures precisely defined at this point, and why is there no clear Republic law? Because the law was passed in 1994, it was introduced some changes in 1996; these are laws that offer outdated solutions and it is clear that these solutions should be changed because, meanwhile, there have been major changes in all areas of life in our country. Among other things, there have been major changes in the legal system, legislation, so that many laws have been changed and we have to act accordingly. These are laws that offer new, modern solutions, in line with the Republic legislation, with the requirements that the Constitutional Charter has put before us, with EU requirements and with living needs at the moment. These laws provide a clear answer to several questions: who, what, when, how should work in cases of risk of spreading disease. Furthermore, these are laws in which it is unequivocally clear that the entire professional public has been fully consulted. I must say that these are the laws that have been conducted in public debates in professional circles, that the Serbian Medical Society and the Republic Association for the Fight Against Infectious Diseases has been consulted, which make up the most valuable experts in this area. It's allowed to have an individual expert opinion different from them, but I'd say it's still an authority that we can't bypass in cases like this. What are the differences that are defined by this law and what are the newspapers they bring in, which the minister has already spoken of. I'd just like to remind you, as far as the Sanitary Control Act is concerned, he has a newspaper that is consistent with the current legal solutions. Three basic areas are defined which this law deals with. It is true that earlier there were several areas that this law regulated, it is true that the area of ionic radiation is now excluded from this law, as it deals with some other law, which regulates this area. Also, the area of environmental protection falls under the Law on the Protection of the Environment and the latter deals with the second ministry and it is true that there are certain changes in terms of the reduction of jurisdiction in inspection supervision in the area of construction, i.e. buildings in construction and reconstruction, because this has been regulated by the Law on Planning and Construction. So it's clear there's no overlapping jurisdiction here and that's why it's clear what's whose jurisdiction. If we want to change these responsibilities, we need to change these laws and if we are responsible for saying that people working at the Ministry of Environmental Protection are not competent enough to deal with it, then we need to amend the Ministry Act. It's not the subject of our conversation today. The topic of our conversation today is the Ministry of Health's jurisdiction in this area, which is very clear by this law. It is also very clear what the procedures are and what the responsibilities of sanitary inspectors are, as well as the responsibilities in protecting the population against infectious diseases. These are the newspapers that this law adopts, and it is consistent with both domestic and foreign legislation. I still have to point out one area that is very important to me. The G17 Plus Group stands behind both areas, although perhaps it is a little unpopular what I'm about to say. This law also defines a clear criminal policy, namely a system of responsibility. It encourages the establishment of a system of responsibility in this area. I think you'll agree with me, I'm sure it's very important for the citizens of Serbia that there is a system of responsibility in this area. So it is very important to know who is responsible if there is a spread of certain diseases. It is very important for a person responsible to be adequately punished. I'm sorry, but we're not in a situation yet, and we still don't have that level of responsibility, and perhaps a level of developed awareness in the field of health care, so that we can rely entirely on our conscience, our awareness and our knowledge of health regulations, in all people who are in contact with some important life supplies. So far, it could have happened that some unconscious person, because she didn't wash her hands, and she served food to our children in kindergarten, brought in germs, and that the children were infected. Do I have to tell you how many penalties have been provided for such and similar offences so far? The fines were very low, let's say, for a natural person, the mandate in case he didn't comply with the hygiene rules was 100 dinars. I think it is clear enough for Serbian citizens that this is something that needs to be changed and that, no matter what, nothing is expensive enough as expensive health. I say that in both economic and subjective terms. The penalties are more severe and I think that all citizens will stand behind the fact that criminal policy must be clear and that the system of responsibility must be clearer. If anyone was willing to do such a thing, they must be willing to file sanctions. I believe that this way we will develop a system of responsibility and that it will be greater. (President: Mrs Plassic, are you using another 10 minutes? Yes. As for the law on the protection of the population against infectious diseases, I would like to say that the situation is very similar. This area has not been regulated enough, or has not been regulated so far on the republican level, but at the federal level and with the Constitutional Charter, there is a need for one such law to exist at the republican level. The Republic of Serbia now has the opportunity to pass a law that will fully regulate this area within its territory and within its powers. I think it's something that Serbian citizens can say hello to. As for the list of diseases, I wouldn't go into a detailed discussion. I just want to say that this list of diseases is consistent with the 10th International Disease Classification. I also want to say that it is wider, but that it is absolutely consistent with the situation that is suited to our country and countries in the environment. I am pleasantly surprised by the efforts to ensure that this law is fully in line with European laws and with the requirements that Europe is putting before us. The G17 Group of MPs plus absolutely welcomes every initiative that leads to European integration, but I also want to say that we have full awareness, and I hope that others also have awareness that we can enter Europe only by respecting the specificities of our country, and that is something that is fully respected by this law. What is also new in this law is the open possibility of dealing with a new disease and clearly precise intelligence and responsibilities in this area. They are specified to the extent that a mistake can hardly occur, from the lowest level, from the homes of health, the health care services, to the ministry, or the minister, and to the government that attaches measures such as quarantine and even declaring dangers to a new disease. So these are the newspapers that this law adopts and I am convinced that all citizens of Serbia and, of course, all their representatives will support these laws and this newspaper, because they absolutely bring benefits to the citizens of Serbia. I would like to repeat that the G17 Group will absolutely support this law, because it is the image of what we have always said, which is that we believe that an individual, a citizen, his health and his happiness is an absolute condition for the achievement of all national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8128	Thank you, deputy president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Here you go, authorised DS representative Dobrica Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8129	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, there are two laws before us that deserve our support and that is the position of the DS-Boris Tadic Parliament Club. We will uphold these two laws. They are what Serbia needs at this point, and that is one of the key reasons why we support these two laws, which is why we are so clear about them. We also have a remark that we expected them much earlier; we have heard that in today's debate in principle. Our next observation is not about these two legal acts, but about access to legal regulation in the field of health protection, which is that there are no long-running, but even longer-expected system laws, above all, the Health Protection Act. We expect a serious basis for such laws in these system laws and, as I said, above all in the Health Protection Act. What we see here today and what was expected is that this debate, at least in principle, is a boring debate; it always happens when you have decently done, good legal proposals, and that could be our assessment of these legal proposals. In fact, in the announcement of these legislative proposals, we have received something that I would call an approach to work on these legal proposals, which is a technical approach and it comes down to more or less harmonisation and we have heard all the harmonisations that this relates to. I'd just say it's a decent job. What I would add to that is that I have seen a special quality in it, and that is a feeling for the future life of these laws, and that is the future space for new alignment, primarily through sublegal acts. That's another good reason to accept these two legislative proposals, not to repeat all those reasons that make us define ourselves. Simply, if you wanted your performance to last as long as possible and it seems like you have a lot to say, then it would all come down to repeating, quoting or paraphrasing members of this law or trying to, as the people say, drain dry drenotine and try to invent the reasons and places where you could criticize. These are simple technical laws, when you observe them, which, of course, does not diminish their enormous importance in the health protection system in Serbia. And because of what I started with, and it was a matter of coordination, which, to our satisfaction here today, has been successfully done, the DS will vote for these two laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8130	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted by the SRS, DSS, DS and G17 plus parliamentary groups. I give my word to the Messenger of the people Miroljub Maric, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Dr Milet Poscuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today we are considering two laws in the field of health and it is to me as a doctor, who has spent 15 years dealing with infectious diseases in pulmology, a great pleasure to present these two laws to you and to the public today. It's quite right that we both took the procedure to present them together, because they intertwine in their areas of treatment. That's why I'm going to start by saying something about both laws, about the goal of passing and the reasons for the law. I may be a bit of a monoton, since we've heard from Mr. Minister and my distinguished colleagues the essence, the main content, so I'm going to try to push through the law to let the public know what the problems are about, what problems are actually solved by these laws. The Sanitary Control Act and the law on protection against infectious diseases have the same objective. Their goal is to prevent, that is, anti- epidemic protection, and all in terms of preserving and improving the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for the adoption of these two laws are identical because it is about transferring competences from federal to the republican level, in terms of compliance with the Constitutional Charter, because so far we have both federal and republican laws, which have somehow been complemented, but have not specified the matter to be defined at the level of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, the reason for the adoption of these two laws is to comply with other republican laws. Here we also find new system solutions, as well as the harmonisation of our legal system in health with EU regulations. We are witnessing new challenges that also condition the adoption of these two laws; we are witnessing large population migrations, communication with the world. We have a change in environmental conditions in terms of environmental pollution, where we also need clear and precise views on certain problems arising from immigration, due to communication, due to environmental conditions. These laws should also address some new approaches to problems due to the development of medical science. Now I'd like to say something concrete about the laws of a person. The Sanitary Control Act provides for the affairs of sanitary surveillance. It is actually inspection supervision of sanitary conditions that must be met by facilities, rooms, installations, devices, furniture, equipment and accessories, dedicated means of transport and persons subject to sanitary supervision. The aim is to protect the health of the population, and the supervision is done by the Ministry of Health through health inspectors. The main areas of sanitary surveillance are the protection of the population from infectious diseases; the health regularity of life supplies and items of general use in production, transport and import; public supply of the population with healthy drinking water. Of the facilities subject to sanitary supervision, I would like to list the health performance, performance of the production and transport of life supplies, public supply of drinking water, hospitality, hygiene, care, beauty and non-medical interventions that disrupt the integrity of the skin. It's about aesthetic interventions. Further, the work of social protection, educational and educational activity, the work of culture and sports, public traffic and other facilities that are defined by this law. The Minister of Health prescribes general and special sanitary conditions for facilities and hygiene conditions for employees in them. Sanitary inspectors are in control of the procedure of regular sanitary supervision. Sanitary inspectors have the authority to take samples to examine from the scene, then monitor the prevention, suppression, elimination and eradication of infectious diseases, monitor the excavation, transport and transfer of the dead, give sanitary consent to facilities under sanitary supervision. From the rights and duties of the sanitary inspectors, I will mention the ban on the use of objects due to non-compliance with the sanitary conditions and the lack of sanitary consent. Sanitary inspectors shall have the authority to order the removal of deficiencies, where there is a danger of human health; if these deficiencies are not corrected in due time, they shall be entitled to prohibit the subsequent work of certain institutions, facilities; they shall monitor deficiencies in the hygiene conditions; they shall have the right to submit requests for infringements. In the end, let me say something about criminal provisions. A little while ago, a colleague of mine said something about it. This law provides for appropriate penalties. It is a very interesting punishment that has so far been 100 dinars, a fine on the spot that a sanitary inspector can determine due to a lack of respect for hygiene; it is now intended to be 5,000 dinars. Because there was an absurdity that certain offenders vulgarized punishment, they say -- I'll give you 10 fines in advance so you don't speak to me anymore. So we need to regulate that criminal policy, to adequately punish the offenders. The Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases determines infectious diseases that threaten the population of the Republic of Serbia. Prevention and control of infectious diseases is of general interest to our Republic. The law contains a list of infectious diseases. There was a comment earlier on whether the list was enough or not, whether it was large or small. Simply because of information for the public, I want to say that the list is not an eye made, it has been made according to the World Health Organization's recommendation, it has been done according to our epidemiological situation and at all the epidemiological risks that our environment carries and based on the reporting of certain infectious diseases. The advantage of the law and the general list is that it allows for expansion depending on the real epidemiological risk. If I didn't get into the details, I'd like to commend the concrete reporting of the pneumonia that this law provides. Only pneumonia caused by streptocus pneumonia has been reported so far; however, this law stipulates that pneumonias and other causes are reported, precisely in order to control SARS, one severe type of pneumonia that threatens us from the Far East, and that we would have insight into how many of our inhabitants are sick, to make a non-incidence of pneumonia disease. Epidemiological surveillance is organised by the Institute for Health Protection and Reference Institutions, Health Protection Services. I want to say that this law stipulates that all prevention measures, in order to protect the population from infectious diseases, are priority measures, and also provides for priority means in relation to other health care measures. This gives meaning and importance to this law. A Republic Commission for the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases is being established, as the most competent commission envisioning certain measures to protect the population from infectious diseases. I would briefly like to list, there are general measures, special measures and measures in emergency situations. For general reasons, I would like to mention the provision of sound drinking water, life supplies and objects of general use, the provision of sanitary and hygiene conditions in facilities under sanitary supervision, the removal of human and animal secretions, corpses and other waste materials, and disinfection, disinfection and depreciation in settlements, facilities under sanitary supervision, etc. I would mention the diagnosis of an infectious disease; laboratory studies to determine the cause of the infectious disease; then a very significant item – reporting of infectious diseases; epidemiological testing; health education; transportation, isolation and treatment of infectious diseases; quarantine and health surveillance; medical examinations of certain categories of employees; immunisation and haemyoprophylaxis; disinfection, deratization and disinfection by epidemiological indications. Let me list short and extraordinary measures. These are: the announcement of an epidemic, declared by the Minister of Health, the measure of preventing the introduction into the country of infectious diseases and epidemiological surveillance in emergency cases. Other measures to protect the population from infectious diseases include supervision of hospital infections, hygiene in providing care and beauty services and procedures with persons who die from infectious diseases. The inspection of the application of this law shall be carried out by a sanitary inspection and shall have the right and the duty to order compliance with these regulations. Penalties are provided for healthcare institutions, for other legal and physical persons, as well as for potentially unconscious healthcare professionals. The G17 plus parliamentary group will vote in favour of the two laws, as it is about regulating two important areas, which are important for improving and protecting the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8132	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milet Poscurica, and let Dobrica Jankovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister and Associates, here we have heard two forms of evaluation of these two laws. I am in favour of the first grade, according to which the law is not done well, is not done thoroughly and is not done according to most of the EU recommendations we have seen here. It is indeed a used classification of the World Health Organization as regards the tenth revision of the international classification of disease, and this is formally and logically coherent, however, we in our proposals gave another type of classification of disease, which would have another clinical imperative. Of course, I'd like to start with the opening part, I'd like to say that one part of the comments we've heard is an amazing, unreserved commendation of this law. I understand that for the members of the party to which the minister belongs, what else would they praise as they still remain on the scene, but I am surprised at the representatives of some other parties who have made such flat-rate positive assessments that they have not arrived, as a gentleman in front, who has taxfully read the entire law, to see that, for example, the minister edits the way to remove. Imagine you high school technicians, not talking about epidemiologists, whose minister will prescribe a way of getting rid of, culture and materials for review. Unbelievable! Either you seal his place, and he will at the time remove the defect that was observed in the bar or in the food processing facility, meat production. A sealed place, written -- closed, it must remove it in the meantime. So these are some rough mistakes that we did no longer want to correct with amendments, since we have assessed the law as we have assessed, that it is not well done, despite the fact that there are certain shifts in it. I couldn't appreciate those shifts being made. But let me start off with something positive. Something positive can be found. It was complicated to move on to a republican jurisdiction with a combined federal - republican. That's where I agree, because I spent some time working in a federal institution. From what I've seen, there are at least five laws involved, in order to bring about the conglomerates of these legal proposals. In some ways, veterinary and phytosanitary inspections, the one most competent for the border traffic of matter, meat, meat processing and other preparations, herbs, plant seed and other. What are we facing? When we put the doctors in charge, I agree, with different profiles and not just doctors, within the framework of sanitary supervision, it is good in the context of being able to be better, more correct and in a more adequate way to control final, final products. How will the sanitary and veterinary inspection work? How will an inspection now belong, under this law, to the Ministry of Science and the protection of the environment? I don't know exactly, but I hear from the practical examples that there are problems because they aren't exteriorally placed, that they're waiting for the inspector to leave Belgrade this one or that one, to carry out a customs check, and that way, we may have lost one thread in efficient work. But it's a good thing that doctors are getting control of the quality and regularity of food, water, food, etc. In that part, it's one of the hits this law has made. Furthermore, as far as specific details and the development of this law are concerned, we don't mean much of a good thing. A lot of things could have been done differently. You see, we have a problem with what's going to happen. other inspection services belonging to other ministries. It is hard to believe that it will be equally effective, not entering expertise, for example, physicists or environmentalists, to assess the real danger to human health, if it is not a doctor from a particular profession, and it deals with the traffic of goods coming from the other side of the border. Even within the territory itself, not just at the border crossings. Will someone who will be an inspector at the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection or the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry be competent to assess the real danger of what they find to be incorrect, while the danger being so real that it is assessed by a health care doctor in the field of epidemiology, hygiene, medical work, etc.? In the context of the organisation of this service at the Ministry of Health, this sector, we have put a principle comment on our health committee. We've heard from Mr. Paja Momchilov who are all the reasons we think it's better that there's an inspection office or some inspectorate, a directorate, some other body that would be able to unite and make coherent work of different inspection services that, on the same issue, can often co-operate; as they will, for example. about issuing a useful permit for the work of different objects to plant people in the field of health, construction, architecture, veterinary inspections, if it is a meat processing facility, where it is for the way of organization, creating so-called. General sanitary conditions for the operation of such an industry or technology are very important to include a veterinarian. So it's going to be necessary to create several different teams, which I don't know how or who will unite. So only by the way I comment on the fact of the deadlines; much has been taken by the minister, I do not enter into who will prescribe it, the ministry or the sector, and the minister will sign deadlines when someone will have to perform a specific task, to give a report or a minimum of the necessary qualifications which prove that the task has been done and the goal set when opening an object or its reconstruction. This means that the user of the facility, the owner, especially the entrepreneur, who is the most frequently punished here, can delay the time until the deadline, which even the local laws wouldn't often be able to regulate and implement. When we talk about local jurisdiction in sanitary surveillance, I can see that much more jurisdiction has been given to the province's sanitary inspection than any local. In fact, the local one can be seen in a hint, and I see that we, radicals and representatives of other parliamentary groups, are talking about, that it is likely that local importance will also have these out-of-the-way inspection services, which are otherwise under the patronage of the Ministry of Health. We do not know why it has not been done more to formally strengthen the importance of local inspection services, because their view must be directed towards Belgrade or the sector, according to the minister himself, and it certainly creates a chance for an unprincipled inspector to behave. And to open one topic – why inspectors are not the best solution, because they are often inclined to behave unfairly and unfairly and abuse their position. I don't know, when we don't have real two-degrees, real control of their work, how objective they'll be in all their work to the end and coherent. We'll see when we start with the general type thing, about the sanitary supervision that is the subject of this law, about which we still don't know whether it's regular or extraordinary, whether it's active or passive, or whether it's a combination of sanitary surveillance. All of these options are possible. With regular sanitary supervision, we should know how often, as the minister will prescribe, whether everything will go into sublaws. If it goes into sublaws, then it has some other weight. If it was known in advance that someone had to control some objects several times. Either it's gonna be permanent, continuous or extraordinary, so someone's gonna have to be afraid that the inspector's gonna come to him all the time. What kind of authority does he have? As Lord God, and the question is, when he starts to take all sorts of swabs, wipes of all materials, all work surfaces, and about sanitary books not to speak, they have a periodical of their renewal, how many times will this unfortunate person or private person or someone to whom the inspector is going to have to do and pay for the review. We know that a routine wipe and its reading cost about 1,000 dinars and more, depends on what health care facility. How many times will someone have to do that, they'll have to pay for it. To whom does the inspector answer if he finds in five visits to one institution that everything he has asked is more or less correct? So there's a chance he can do it whenever he wants, because actually we don't see it exactly in the law or it's just going to be prescribed. If it's going to be prescribed, dyspression, we expected procedures to be prescribed, measures regarding the law we've passed, good laboratory practices, good manufacturing practices, so we see what happened to the vaccines. Why isn't an official answering? Just a few doctors from the Institute. What's going on here? What's the essential problem with the vaccine? They're harmful to their health, and we've removed them. If we have implemented a guideline of good manufacturing practice, good laboratory practice, why is this not established on site? Did he set up the Pharmacy Institute elsewhere? Why isn't there a Batut? We don't know much about sublegal acts and the official messenger to publish, so it didn't come out, so what happened happened. So, the field opens up for doubt that it can be like this, it can be like that, and of course we don't know that. Will there be an active or passive surveillance? Whether someone will be obliged to periodically take swabs, certain cultures, to apply it, and when the inspector comes to show he's done it, or say it'll be a passive form, so it'll only work when the inspector knocks on the door. We don't know that. What is the relationship, within the framework of this Sanitary Control Act, between different institutes or health care institutions and the inspectors themselves? Are these institutions useful places where inspectors will do their job or have jurisdiction over themselves? That's part of it. And we know that both have to report, especially with regard to the Law on Infectious Diseases, and that the Inspectorate is reporting that this cross-border may have SARS, call in control, etc. That kind of written communication exists under these circumstances. Since routine work is not clear from this law, except at some points in infectious diseases, where we see that control should be carried out by a competent health care institute, especially in health institutions, but then we will see how much there is. When it comes to prescribing, he just said that it's really a little ruckus that the minister prescribes a way of taking swabs, frequency, etc. I guess you know how to wipe your throat, wipe your nose, wipe your wound. It's just amazing that it's prescribed by the minister. Then why did we learn that? Every student has learned to do that, but there may be something new. He is not in agreement with the European Union again. We have seen what you have not copied from the European Union. It's a question of the coherence of this law, of who wrote it, of whether it's all right, of whether someone was sitting in the next room when this was written, so he was checking it out. We don't understand why it technically didn't come to an end, and some of the essentials are not right. The deadlines for delivery of consent on construction, reconstruction, idea solution, permits for use of facilities subject to sanitary supervision; these deadlines will be prescribed. But in local self-government, you have deadlines for which when someone asks for permission to use, they will have a deadline when they have to be issued. The election is over and everyone promises to cut those deadlines considerably. What will we do when this segment of sanitary surveillance is responsible for the enormous extension of the deadline? The question is how big it's gonna be and what it's gonna be. Don't think and beg colleagues when they come out for a pay phone if they don't claim they're radicals against the law to cause chaos. We are against laws that are not done well. We're not against laws like this. He was just saying that someone is against the laws on infectious diseases, which protects the health of the population from spreading the disease. It's pointless, and no one would wish for their people. So, we criticise, when it's already done, why at least it's not done to work and why not all amendments and all proposals are heard to the end. We know that the laws are made inside the cabinets of a certain number of people, and sometimes at some seminars, but we have to make sure that they are truly coherent. Not to praise the overly sincere minister of justice, we saw how many amendments a man adopted this morning and yesterday, which were logical and rational. Are there entirely two different channels of thinking within the government and the priorities of rejecting something that does not come from a privileged group of promoters? I don't know why that is, but that's what it looks like. When it comes to infectious diseases, I said it's normal for a man to accept such a classification logically, he is what he is. Is everything that's interesting about this environment, that's the question we've already opened. We think that this qualification, this bill of law, and what is fundamentally at the very beginning must be followed by some professional and methodological instruction. If for no other reason, the fact that you're threatening medical doctors with criminal provisions is that if they don't recognize or suspect anything, and they don't, they're going to be punished. Even, paradoxically, more will be punished by a specialist doctor, with 25,000.00 to 50,000.00 dinars more than a national institute that brings a protection program, than a director of that institute. Imagine the salaries of specialists and doctors of general practice and directors of the institute, only in one city in the interior, without speaking to the Republic Institute "Batut". Little can be seen here that no one can respect all that is presented to him if there is no clear guidance. It's been said, a car in the professional public, that Batut made some of it, some kind of elaborate, some kind of professional methodological guidance proposal, but that it stopped around some disease. It's possible it's misinformation, but when you ask the question of laboratory diagnostics, are we able to set a diagnostics lab. So far, what we do know, and it's possible that I don't know enough about it, is that such diagnostics are abundant in clinical and neurological symptoms. If this is not in laboratory diagnostics, it is a matter of place, but if there is a place, some sort of accompanying instruction must come to someone's hands with practical instruction, professionally and methodologically, as has come to many professional areas. This must also follow, so that doctors and professional associates are not exposed to the risk of being severely punished. Speaking of which, I'm gonna touch the fact that we're reporting all the pneumonia. It's more logical that these pneumonias that matter, let's say SARS when it comes, far away, should apply. But even if everything is to apply, we won't be cepidlakes, but imagine how many of these diagnosiss are made without an expert methodological manual, which is the final diagnosis of pneumonia. How many times has a specialist doctor been and not been diagnosed? She sets herself up like that, the radiologist sets her up and disproves her. If they were to bury health protection institutes with applications that are and are not, they are not valid, such galatias and chaos in their computers would become, in their records centres, that it would be really hard to understand why we are doing it, why we create ourselves so much obligation to, say, report any strepococcal infection. How many are there? The general practice doctor must report it, and if he does not report it, he will be punished. It's a huge multiplication of applications, and there's no methodological guidance, whether the one with the complications, the one without complications, or anyone. Let's say, intra-hospital infection, reporting, and who's going to give you a dead cold confession that he's developed an intra-hospital infection. What's the criterion for that? I guess the minister's going to prescribe a criterion for that, too. Almost professional public debated whether the swab or surgical wound was red due to mechanical inflation or bacterial inflation. It won't be easy for anyone to agree to be declared an intrachospital infection. How many times does an inspector have to go in and get a record of what to open and what to see and how many clinical wards in a mediocre city hospital to determine something like that? So there's a lot of misunderstandings, and there's a taxing number of illnesses and situations that are subject to mandatory reporting, and whoever doesn't do it has to be punished for it. Imagine a doctor with a salary of 25,000, and you'll punish him for not reporting something, suspecting something. Take some potential but serious stuff. Haemorrhagic fever, not accompanied by renal syndrome. Really dangerous. I'm a nephrologist and I know, but he can't develop kidney syndrome right now. Tomorrow someone's going to punish me for not getting my lab proof that it's hemorrhagic fever with kidney syndrome. It can't get to you, it takes a day, two, three to be done on Torlak a relevant test, so you get back. You three days doubt, you didn't report it, and the same one should be transported to Sanity. It's an obligation that's recommended, but that doctor doesn't know the general practice, and as soon as someone has a little red eye and a hemorrhagic fever, give him a dream, drive him. She could be someone else without being the one with kidney syndrome. So there are these individual weaknesses that destroy the concept of the law, to be as ideally praised as it is. But what do we do? Mandatory resistance to bacteria is also reported. What if you have resistance, how many antibiotics, antibiotics that groups? You're going to say multi-resistance, I know that, but it needs to be defined as well. If someone has to be punished, it has to be clear why he's being punished. So these criteria are gone. Will they all be determined by the minister? What doesn't make the waist, what doesn't that chamber that, cobajagi, read the cure? You know what, I'm increasingly doubting that these chambers are being proposed by the law, that someone elaborated on them and they nodded their heads and said they could. When someone reads to detail, they'll probably say, "What is this all about?" How are we going to do that? Vaccination - a very interesting problem. There have been mandatory vaccinations up to now. To be clear for the public, we already have mandatory clinical indications and epidemiological indications. Epidemiological indications can often confuse us. If anyone has a chance to get flu, someone is nursing him, a difficult mobile person, a chronic patient, a doctor, a nurse, he enters the categories of epidemiological indications, to get a clinical indication for vaccination. So it's spreading. How are you going to take one, say, hepatitis B vaccine, when 3000 or how full the dose is, and only recently in some centres, it appears that the institutes distribute and carry out the vaccination. It was before -- buy and vaccinate. In dialysis, in the department where I worked in Kragujevac, the patient's mass bought that vaccine. That's what sisters should buy. The professions are defined at risk, I know that, but how are we going to make them if we write that it's mandatory to vaccinate a surgeon? It was a simple story that they were Chinese vaccines, that they weren't like that. Then everyone gets scared, sisters, cleaners carrying dialysis material in plastic bags, in sacks, so they can take it to burn it. How many times do they have a chance to get hurt, hurt, and get an infection? They must be vaccinated for epidemiological reasons. If a free vaccine is not provided, few will do so. Imagine another nonsensus when it comes to, say, seroprophylaxis, immune gammaglobulin protection, or tetanus-specific. When someone has a car accident, an easy wound, gets hurt, something is done, goes to the doctor of general practice and the job ends there, and then he suggests he has to get a serum, a legal sea. He ran out of criteria when he was a soldier, a dose parapel, and now he's 40 years old. Get a simple vaccine, which is 15-20 dinars, but the serum is 600-700 dinars. That sicko, like a peasant, has no money on him, the doctor wrote a warrant for an injection, he left, the pharmacy closed, doesn't receive, and tomorrow the doctor will respond because he didn't carry out the vaccine. He didn't do it because he didn't. So let's do something. If we order something as mandatory, that's what we're supposed to do. It's a discrepancy between the imagined ideal version of the law and the situation on the ground, which doesn't suit us, that we don't enter, that we don't bother the public with many other, more serious things, about who and how he has the right to treat cytostatics compared to the age, which is a text that officially orbits the funds, and a guide to where he goes and who gets a drug that's not on the list right, and whether he's older or younger than I don't know what number of years. That's amazing. If it's reforms, reform laws, reform states, if it's all so categorized that someone will receive a cytostatic according to how old it is. I haven't, perhaps, been uninformed, read that the cytostatic is looking at the calendar biologically and knows when it's efficient. If that's rationalization, let's say so. These are the difficult situations on the ground we're seeing, just like what someone, not receiving tetabulin, is likely to get tetanus. Tetanus has, because he doesn't have the money to buy, he's in no condition, the infirmary won't offer him. Why are we angry at times when it's been as long as you want? No one's crazy to cause a serum disease or anything else, and to prescribe something he doesn't need. You don't have to run from it. Somebody can't use tatabulin. So the doctor must have, if required, what the patient has to provide. I'd also like to say something about criminal provisions. I already said they're kind of weird. For example, the director of the Institute for Health Protection, which brings a strategic project and plan, can be punished by 20,000-40,000 and by a doctor with 25,000 to 50,000. Now the minister knows the doctor's salary specialist is 25,000, I don't think she's bigger, at least to me with all the belongings is no more than 32,000. So I don't know how it's possible. Furthermore, it is said that medical institutions will be punished if they do not implement all the specific measures prescribed, and so many of them are, take Article 9 paragraph 2 point 1) and beyond, as many of these general measures as there are. It's so easy to find someone who can move or who can be that it wasn't even necessary to do it, and then he'll be a health care institution, a director and even personal, medical staff and institutions, severely punished, that I don't interpret or read the law. The institutes, I've already told you about this discrepancy in relation to doctors, and I'm guessing it's a very serious discrepancy and to a criminal extent. I understand those inmates who are found to have broken some obligation, like in kindergartens, and wipes, I totally understand that. I don't think I'm adjudicating unhygienic behavior and unhygienic conditions in institutions, but I think we should introduce more order into such a sensitive problem, that we should finally establish when it comes to vaccination and that post-exposure protection for hepatitis B, whether there are specific serums available or not, for protection, as we have for tetalpan, because it's a mandatory vaccine. What are we going to do, say, in situations where someone who succumbs to the need to be vaccinated avoids that vaccine, and it says that the vaccine is mandatory? So, we found a number of other shortcomings here and we're putting objections into the general debate, because after a few of our amendments, we saw that you had no intention of accepting them. We will not try to correct the law as a whole, but we will give the public obvious reasons why we do not think that these two legal projects can be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8134	The word has a folk MP, Dobrica Jankovic. He's not here. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8135	Dear People's MPs, the adoption of these laws is necessary, above all, because formal jurisdiction must be transferred from earlier federal to the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, but we know that much of the jurisdiction in the fields of these laws has been in the jurisdiction of the SRJ and that there is now a need to pass it on to the Member States. By the way, some necessary changes have been made, which is the redistribution of competence between several ministries within the Republic of Serbia; above all, it goes to the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, and rightly so far, something that has been in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry. That's what's positive in this bill. I don't want to repeat what previous colleagues in the SRS have been saying. After the presentation of his colleagues, I don't think he should go that far in detail, because he covered everything. What is most important to me in this proposed law is the question of how adequate inspection, i.e. sanitary control of food, or the life supplies imported. We know that Serbia is flooded with import goods of every kind, especially food, or life-saving foods, and that there is a great risk of importing wrong life-forms. There is indeed a need for rigorous control in this area, in order to avoid endangering the country's population's health. Before I try to analyze how this bill regulates the area, it is necessary to say what is the situation in the area today. First of all, there is a division of jurisdiction between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, which will now change. The current situation is such that there is no uniform system of control of the correctness of life supplies. In fact, the control of imports, i.e. food exports, is now divided between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, and is further split into three different inspection services, each of which works independently and without coordination with the other. Instead of uniting requirements for parties and single sampling for laboratory analyses, there is chaos at the state border in the submission of four requests for the same subject, taking four samples instead of one on which laboratory tests are to be carried out, with a higher number of unnecessary identical tests. Instead of adequate, unique and specific measures in border surveillance by Republic inspectors taking over jobs, tragic solutions are imposed. For example, applications and samples are accepted, all supplies are sent for analysis by the withdrawn quality market inspectors, and the assurances are signed in agricultural inspections by some authorised inspectors who are in the districts. All this slows down and interferes with the free flow of goods at the border, and nothing contributes to the safety of food supplies. One of the previous federal governments tried to improve the situation in this area, and it formed a federal sanitary, veterinary and phytosanitary inspectorate as a single body in which a phytosanitary laboratory was involved. Since the basic principle of food safety regulation within the EU is that the state is responsible for food safety and its control, it was necessary to form, in addition to integrated inspection bodies, a system of state laboratories that will unite the food safety chain. This proposed law does not show that the Ministry has that intention. In fact, much is left for later, for the adoption of sublegal acts, but I would draw attention to the minister that in 2001 the Federal Government established a central laboratory as the first state laboratory and established the work cycle. The initial activities of these central laboratories were such that they carried out most of the tasks of that jurisdiction. It started working, as logically, as a non-profit institution and due to its large volume of work, it made nearly 11 million dinars in the near budget for less than nine months between 2002 and 2003. However, rather than achieving further development plans as regards the functioning of this central laboratory and the accompanying services, the Republic of Serbia has broken down the Federal Sanitary, Veterinary and Phytosanitary Inspectorate and by breaking this central laboratory, contrary to the principles that exist in the EU, and we always call on these principles. Therefore, the Ministry of Health has shown an extreme misunderstanding of the importance and importance of border sanitary supervision and its specificity, and the only explanation can be that it was probably not in someone's interest that the funds charged with these sanitary controls were poured into the state budget, and perhaps it was in someone's interest that all these analyses were done in other laboratories without the funds being poured into the budget, rather than going to some other persons. Otherwise, I would like to join my colleague Jankovic, who in principle made an objection to the Ministry of Health, which is persistently proposing these technical laws to this assembly, not to argue that they are necessary, and the state of health in the Republic is such that urgent adoption of system laws, above all, health care laws and health insurance laws. I hope that this assembly assembly will take at least so long to see these bill proposals that the minister often spoke of in public appearances, but as though the libi would bite into that cake, we assume that these laws will have to be radically and radically reorganised health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8136	The word is by MP Predrag Mijailovic Lune.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8137	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the respected presidency, respected ministers, from a professional and legal point of view, it is logical that the draft law on sanitary supervision and the proposal for a law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases were found in the assembly procedure at the same time and the debate was united. The laws are compatible with each other and can only be applied in practice if we have both laws at the same time. That is, it is enough to read Article 6 of the Sanitary Control Act, where the areas that are subject to sanitary supervision are listed, and that is: the area of protection of the population against infectious diseases is sufficient only this point. But also other areas, such as the area of health regularity of life supplies and items of general use in production, transport and import; the area of public supply of drinking water to the population. These laws are of general national interest. These are not only technical laws, as they regulate preventive measures to protect the health of the population from infectious diseases and harmful substances that can affect the health of the population. What's more important than health? Only a healthy man has more desires, and only one sick is to be healthy. If we look at Article 2. The health care law of the population against infectious diseases shows that there are 70 diseases. Dear colleagues, I don't think the list is large and perhaps even small. What I particularly like is that other diseases can be added to this list, and we know that in the modern world, there are very often new diseases that can be contagious, which not only create an epidemic in one country, but can cause an epidemic on the entire continent, or on several continents. We must remember the variety of faith, we have forgotten the panic of 1972 that affected our country and the whole of Europe. Back then, as a young doctor, I was on a faith-restraint team in Tutin. In such cases, it is not only the health of the population, which is most important, but also the economy, and thus the stability of the country in both security and other spheres of life. Let's look and remember, there hasn't been a year since there was an outbreak of SARS in China; and what was the Chinese government doing? Maltene met nonstop, the ministry sat down, all preventive measures were taken. There were fewer people coming to China to invest; there was a ban on people coming because of business, tourism, etc. So the Chinese economy at the time suffered some damage. So, gentlemen, no one is going to invest where it's not safe; let's say for us in tourism, if we don't have good sanitary supervision. Therefore, each government and every serious country strictly enforces its laws in the area of protection against infectious diseases and the Sanitary Control Act. As our government wants to have a step with Europe and the world and that our laws in this sphere are fully equal to the laws of the European Union above all, the DSS will, since it is the main holder of this government, support these laws. These laws should be supported, because they are clear, concrete. So far, we've had no idea who's declaring the epidemic and who's to say there's been an end to the threat of an epidemic. We only have to remember one example, it wasn't a long time ago, when we had a disease of congohemorrhagic fever without knowing who had to declare an epidemic. The worst, doctors and patients who were in contact with these patients went to their homes by bus, and they were able to spread the epidemic, or spread it to their family. This law is precisely defined, if there is any doubt, what should be done with the patient, what professionals and those closest to them must do to avoid spreading the epidemic. Gentlemen Members of the People, we must support this law, not for political reasons, but for our health and for our people's sake. Now it's precise, Articles 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14 and 16 and others detail what needs to be done to prevent infectious diseases. That's why criticism in the sense that it's not precise doesn't stand; it is, but we need to know as people that everything in the law can't be put in, because there's so-called. Sublegal act. I would especially like to point out that Article 22 defines quarantine and medical supervision in the event of an epidemic. We've had so far that we don't know where our location is, which facility will be used for quarantine. From the moment this law is passed, we'll know exactly what space it needs to be for quarantine and what conditions it needs to have quarantine. It can't be a prison, but it should be a hospital, or an object with the right conditions; these people may have to go in healthy, but at the same time they have to last five, 10 or 15 days, depending on the period of incubation. That's what all of us who work in medicine know well. Article 25 defines immunisation and haemyoprophylaxis of infectious diseases, which represents a pointy barrier to the prevention of infectious diseases. Gentlemen, MPs, who are engaged in the profession, immunization, immunology, it's not a simple thing, just to get a vaccine, a dead vaccine, or a half-live vaccine. We have a vaccine that affects the immune system in the system. We with the vaccine normally want to achieve a positive effect, to protect ourselves from the disease, but if we give a vaccine that is not adequate we can get the worst; that won't work, it's not that bad, but it's terrible if that vaccine changes the immune process and we can get diseases that are incurable. Let's just look at what HIV is. HIV is the same virus that destroys the body's immune system. So the introduction of the virus isn't just like that, usually, and when you ask the question here why the Torlak vaccine is banned, logically, because that vaccine doesn't fit the standards and the expert teams said it couldn't end the story. The worst thing is to give a man the wrong medicine. In Article 31, we have measures to prevent the introduction and spread of infectious diseases, where a ban on travel to countries where an epidemic of infectious diseases has ruled. So far, we, like all serious countries of the world, have not recommended to our citizens (or even forbidden) not to go to areas where infectious diseases exist; there can be no economic reason to justify if someone goes into such an area and brings to this country an infectious disease, because there are no diseases that can't be brought from the north to the south within 24 hours, we know what kind of communication we have. I would like to point out that in article 33, special attention is paid to the supervision of hospital or intra-hospital infections. All of us who work at the hospital know that despite all the preventive measures, hygienic and others, it is often impossible to defend ourselves from these diseases, because very often resistant bacteria that threaten not only patients, but also people who work there, and visitors; we know that relatives often come to visit the sick. The Democratic Party of Serbia will support this law and we believe it should have been passed before, but we haven't been in power long and that's why it hasn't been brought before.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8138	The word has the Minister of Health Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8139	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, during today's debate showed a high degree of responsibility of MPs in relation to matter concerning the health of Serbian citizens and it is good that viewers watch and listen to us through TV screens and actually see that there was no single argument that spoke against the adoption of such laws. However, there were no concrete arguments that refuted concrete solutions. Certainly democracy implies the right to differing opinions. This esteemed home provides an opportunity for representatives of every political option to express their position that once has more, sometimes less arguments, which are once based, clear, firm, sometimes not so clear, not so firm, but in any case recognizable is a good intention among all. I am actually giving myself the right to thank, as Minister of Health, all MPs today for showing that they understand very well how important and urgent it is to have laws that regulate a very important health care area. Laws are not everything and cannot do what more than 120,000 people in health care institutions across Serbia can do, but these two laws very clearly show that they are not just employees of health institutions responsible for the health of the population. Responsibility begins from ourselves, and it is contained in the people's sayings that have been mentioned several times today. These two laws best confirm that it is better to prevent it than to treat it, but editing this area in such a serious way should actually be a clear message that the responsibility of the state is even greater and more severe when it comes to such serious matters. It implies that when sanitary supervision is said and it is said that the government is proposing to the Serbian Parliament to consider a new law on sanitary supervision and to be in circumstances where it is very clear and knows that the country's legal system has been changed a few months ago, among other things thanks to all of you, by adopting a series of laws that regulate different areas, and sometimes it seems that construction, entrepreneurship, businesses have nothing to do with such health areas. These two laws and today's debates and the debate that we're going to continue show that there are no areas of our lives that have no meaning when the dimensions of life are this sensitive. Sanitary surveillance involves better prevention than treatment. As the matter with the right powers stands, with the taking over of federal responsibilities at the level of the republican authorities of the administration – it stands so that jobs are carried out all the time thanks primarily to employees and several hundred inspectors, and sanitary ones, who are actually workers of the Ministry of Health, but also other inspections. That sanitary surveillance is on-the-line check every day. Citizens had the opportunity to see how the sanitary inspection works when the population of this country was threatened by the emergence of a new disease that at that time even had an unknown cause. Life can't wait for us to come up with all the laws that are necessary, but it's good when the government and the Assembly clearly recognize their responsibility and put on the agenda such important acts. Sanitary surveillance regulated by this regulation actually recognizes what we have today, and in most of the exposure we have heard here today it appears that the MPs understood well. Legal regulations in the country have changed. What we do today in our country every month is more orderly thanks to you when you pass every law that means a positive step forward, so from the point of view of the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary today to regulate these two laws, we propose in exactly this way, there has been no amendment. We're just going to talk about him, who suggested essentially different things. What I'm trying to say is, what I'm saying today may not be sufficiently accentuated today, it's that the widest possible advisory framework of the Republic of Serbia really took part in these legislations. There is not a single professional association and no institution in this country that has shown its creative contribution to defining very sensitive members who sometimes refer to things that can be professionally interpreted. The list of diseases is in line with the World Health Organisation's recommendations, and some diseases that are not currently under strict recommendations recognised by the EU, but the country's epidemiological situation has been respected. There are professional circles behind it. When I address the MPs of the Serbian Parliament today, I do have an increased responsibility when I talk about sanitary surveillance and protection against infectious diseases, I have the responsibility to pass on to you that the broadest professional circles of this country participated in the drafting of these regulations. What could best have been achieved in the Republic of Serbia through the analysis of positive experiences from our daily practice, and these experiences have many, many decades back, as doctors and nurses and non-medical workers work every day and every night. As we speak, they are now on duty to take care of people who need medical attention. They did it in the 1990s, when they had to wear a towel and soap from home to be able to wash their hands, they did it, and when they didn't have any apparatus to determine whether there was an infectious disease or not, they did it and when there was no reagent to determine leukocytes in an emergency service, somewhere in the country of Serbia, from the south to the north, from the west to the east, and they're doing it today when I can say it, health institutions don't look what they looked like then, thanks to what you're doing here. Every day, the state of health care facilities improves. A message from the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia that MPs are aware of a strict degree of responsibility when it comes to such problems and that they are fully clear, no matter what political option they belonged to, that supporting the adoption of such rules defined by the profession, which have been checked for months in a very broad advisory framework, that the message that such laws are adopted is actually the right message, that the interest of citizens and that the health of each citizen is above any political interest. There is no political interest that will force the Minister of Health to say something that is the opposite, nor for this speaker. I am convinced that in each of you, when it comes to these things since these issues, there is no one who will not have -- where there is general interest, where the interest of the citizens is, where it is of interest to all of us, because we are citizens who at this moment have a special responsibility to sit in congregation benches and to make responsible decisions in government sessions concerning everyday life and the fate of the people and who judge citizens every day and who will judge one day will be pathetic and history, but it is not pathetic, it is. I am convinced that you will be at the level of the task, not just today when we talk about the law in general, not only when we talk about whether we need such regulations, not only when the Minister of Health explains that these regulations are important, because they show a sign that we are editing every area in the health system and I am glad that I heard the message today that you expect as soon as possible other system laws. I'm holding you by my word now. You'll have them in front of us for weeks, they'll be in public debate again, they'll be able to discuss themselves and they'll be re-engaged by the professional public and broad circles of the Serbian citizens, and I'm sure you'll still have a degree of responsibility when you speak to the public of Serbia, because you're talking about laws that regulate what's most valuable. There is no economy that will recover in this country if we are not healthy. Now I'm going to use the end of my exposure to remind you that there is a law against smoking cigarettes in closed spaces. I call on all MPs, there are 250 of you in the Serbian Parliament, 2005 is a sign of an intensification of all our activities at prevention, to prevent disease. I'm sure you'll be there too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-05-0.u8140	Thank you. One announcement: a first, constitutive session of the Survey Committee was called to determine the facts and circumstances in the elections for the Belgrade City Assembly, held on 19 September 2004, starting at 9.30 p.m. on Monday 8 November 2004. On the basis of Article 81(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, due to the extensive agenda and the importance of the law and the need for urgent adoption in the interests of citizens, resumes the session at 10.00 p.m. on Monday (November 8th).
