ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7333	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 120 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Nadika Momirov, Vladimir Milankov, Željko Ivanović, Ksenija Milivojevic, Aleksandar Lazarevic, Milos Aligrudić, Dragan Šormaz, Dusan Proroković, Milica Gavrilović, Željko Tomić, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Esad Judjevic, Nikola Milosevic and Vladimir Milentijevic. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Freedom of Access to Information From Public Meaning (Substance in Details) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Snježana Lakićevic-Stojačić. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Committee on Culture and Information proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7334	Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to Article 4 in order to narrow down the discretionary right of a person who has information that is of public interest to know and in this regard to the provision, because it is said that it is justified for the public to know, unless the Authority proves otherwise. In order for this discretionary right, which is quite broad, to be narrowed down and in accordance with the positive regulations, we suggest that there be an amendment – that the case for which this law is excluded or restricted to access to information is mediated. In this way, the fact that the information has a legitimate public interest to know can deny the information to the applicant only if it is strictly prescribed by the provisions of this law. I think it's very important that this amendment be accepted. This has been pointed out by all the members of the Committee on Culture and Information, and I suggest that MPs think carefully, because I think that this is how it is arranged that the rule of exception should only be in that case, if the legislator so provides.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7335	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7336	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted an amendment to Article 6. The proposal for a law on free access to information of public importance requires that this article be changed by saying: "The rights of this law belong to all domestic legal and natural persons under equal conditions, regardless of residence, residence, or seat or personal property such as race, religion, national and ethnicity, gender and the like." According to this law, the principle declared in Article 6 was later broken in Article 17 by exempt journalists from payment obligations when they request a copy of the document to make their call. Then, human rights associations where a copy of the documents is required to achieve the objectives of the association and all persons when the information requested relates to the threat, i.e. the protection of the health of the population and the environment, except in the cases referred to in Article 10(1). It is unacceptable to first declare rights for all under equal conditions, and then to deprive some of these rights. The objective of this amendment is to limit it in accordance with the Constitution and the law, because the Constitution allows us to be able to regulate foreign natural and legal persons in a special way to exercise certain rights before the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. This would be good for a lot of reasons. As soon as we prevent various world and white-world organizations, associations, foreign governments, foreign agents from obtaining and requesting information from our state authorities without any restrictions. We would prevent the possibility of our organs being buried by hundreds and thousands of demands. In addition, for these domestic agents, or various NGOs, which have so far earned large amounts of money by exporting data from the state authorities, via the Ibar Highway, through motels and in various other ways, and this has been an extremely profitable activity, we will prevent these people and their families from being left with no means to live. Because a trend has been observed that with the arrival of the DOS authorities at the head of Serbia has been drastically reduced aid to various NGOs previously paid from abroad, and now citizens of the Republic of Serbia are forced to pay various Sonja Biserko, Mrs. Vuco and so on, and Serbian citizens do not want to do so in large numbers. This way, we would solve this problem, and instead of those like bloodsuckers sucking their lives out of our budget, we would put them back into foreign budgets.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7337	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Committee for Culture and Information proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7338	The Democratic Party's parliamentary group believes that the reformation is necessary for the accuracy of the solution and for its easier application in practice. In addition, at the end of the article, another condition has been added, which is closer to explaining what is meant by the abuse of the right to access information, so it is indicated that abuse is involved when, due to the excessive request of a search engine, other potential applicants are condemned to receive the requested information in due time. We feel that it is necessary to anticipate these possibilities and that it is very important that the law is precise. As a result, we do not see any reason why amendments which are in line with the specification of certain legislative proposals and do not, in fact, change its essence, are not accepted and in this respect I propose that the MPs of the Republic Parliament accept the position of the Committee on Culture and Information which this amendment has adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7339	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 13. It's a bill of law. It is totally unacceptable this argument, Mr. Minister, for not accepting the amendments to Article 13, I mean the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because exactly my main argument and the Serbian radicals is that we define this member more precisely, and you say in your explanation that the amendment is not accepted because the proposer has better defined it. You see, the SRS and I, as the applicant of the amendment, think that's not the case, and I'll explain it to you on a few examples. In Article 13 of the Law, you said: "The authority will not allow the applicant to access information of public importance if the applicant abuses the right to access information of public importance, especially if the request is unreasonable, often when a request for the same or already received information is repeated or when an excessive number of information is sought." Who is it to assess, and it is the state authorities and individuals, officials who have to give that information, what is unreasonable, what is often and how many information is needed? If a search engine comes to a state authority, which according to a member of yours now has discretionary authority to behave in the right sense of the word, and asks for five information, let's say, you estimate what the upper limit is; for you, or for a state official of five or ten, it may be too large a number, and maybe it's just the beginning of a procedure where the searcher intends to continue, therefore, to look for some information. You now have regional privatisation agencies in many cities in Serbia. That's the case in Kragujevac. It's a regional agency for the Woodland County. One of the mourned workers from Venčac's company comes from Arangelovac, one of the PKK workers from Kragujevac comes from the company "Knjiz Miloš" and asks the competent authority, the representative of the Privatisation Agency, the information that privatization has been done – this is the most often done by the Assembly's Privatisation Committee, it's covered with a bunch of material – and the one there tells him, you know, I can't give you too many information, or one day delay it, will give him the next day and so on, and of the five he requests he gets two or no information. In addition, legal uncertainty is being created, because you are giving this and this member the opportunity for civil servants to abuse their position, or to say, for me it is a large number of information and why you come so often. He must come often if he has been robbed, or if the factory is nakaradically privatized. For example, I now come and ask for information about how Cementara in Popovac is privatized and the competent state authority tells me – I can't give you that information, it's too many information. And if there's any knowledge that needs to be made in continuity, then it's better to accept this solution that I've made, that you can't suddenly give up such a number of information, and gradually get to the real truth, or what's important to me. So it would be good to propose a better solution instead of these completely unacceptable words, often and unreasonablely. So I put in my amendment that it was not to be a request for the same number of information and to define what it was and how many information, or to accept that in the last sentence, as I suggested, it was that the applicant couldn't suddenly ask for that number of information. What's that number going to be in the end, you don't know, because it all depends on the case to the case. It's just amazing that in a way like this you're taking away the right of someone, and apparently by law you're giving them the right to come to information, by limiting them and not giving them the opportunity to finally come to the full truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7341	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Committee on Culture and Information proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7342	Ladies and gentlemen, when we spoke in principle yesterday about a law on access to information of public importance, we Serbian radicals said that we are aware that this law in Serbia should be passed, but we also said that we have invested a number of amendments with the intention to regulate, be applicable, usable and comply with the conditions that exist in Serbia. Our intention was truly sincere, and we said, if any of the amendments were to be adopted, and indeed made a vital contribution to the improvement of this law, that we would be willing to vote in favour of this law. The Committee on Culture and Information, as the committee responsible, accepted this amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, however, the Serbian government did not accept it, and here is some reason for the government, but I think the essence is that the Serbian government did not accept this amendment so that last night, in all media, it could be said that only Serbian radicals were against allowing access to information of public importance. Of course, that's not true. The truth is, this law is bad and it is our intention to arrange it with submitted amendments. The amendment to Article 15 is indeed completely meaningful, fully in accordance with other laws and is simply an amazing explanation of the government when it rejects the amendment. The amendment requires that "the applicant submit a written request to the Authority for access to information of public importance, in a language that is in accordance with the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters". Paragraph 6 states: "If the applicant does not remove the deficiencies within 15 days of the date of receipt of the supplemental instruction, and the deficiencies are such that they cannot be handled at the request, the Authority will conclude the rejection of the request as messy and deliver it to the applicant. "I don't see who in this room would say that this amendment isn't really real and that it really doesn't make the law qualitatively improved. The government, when rejecting this amendment, says - an amendment to Article 15(1) is not accepted for the reason that the use of language is already regulated by the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters and the General Administrative Procedure Act, and the provisions of these laws do not need to be repeated. So it is obvious that the government also thinks that what I suggested on behalf of the SRS is totally fine, completely acceptable, but it cannot be accepted because the proposal comes from Serbian radicals. In the second part of the argument, the Government says – nor does a change in the position of the 6th member be accepted, where a 15-day deadline can be strictly determined in which the applicant can remove the shortcomings of his request. The solution given in the bill is much more flexible and contributes to the search engine. I also think that this argument of the government is unacceptable and I am fully convinced that this proposal that we have made in this amendment is something that must be accepted, that is, to become an integral part of the law. Regardless of the use of language and letters is regulated by law, we are asking it to be highlighted, because we all know well what is happening in certain parts of the Republic of Serbia, and not that it is not necessary, but it is necessary to stress in every law, where it is spoken, the need for use of language and letter in accordance with the applicable law in Serbia. After all, we need to know what language we communicate in. These days, we have, uh, about these last local elections, a series of events that tell us that we don't seem to understand each other and that we don't know which language he speaks. In the Municipality of Zemun, although yesterday was the last day until the former president of the Assembly could have appointed the Assembly, he had no idea to do so, apparently a man does not know what language the people of Zemun say that they were looking for changes in Zemun. Also, for example, in Babusnica Municipality, where the president of the municipality changed all the locks this morning to the newly elected president of the Assembly and his deputy, who are from another political option, would not be able to enter the premises to perform the functions for which they were elected. So it's very important how we communicate, how we communicate, how we get public information. I suggest, dear colleagues, that you adopt this amendment, because that's how we qualitatively amend the law, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7343	Anyone else want a word? National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seemed to me for a moment that the Secretary of Resort would call, but nothing seems to get him to get involved in his business at least a little bit. It was obvious yesterday that he was not at all familiar with this law, and that he had not seriously read it, either he or any of his employees at the Ministry, when they responded to the amendments, would be made clear from the reasons for the amendment to Article 15, which was submitted by Ms. Verica Radeta. This amendment requires that the possibility of submission be limited only to a language which is in use in the national authority in accordance with the Law on the Use of Language and Letters. If such a formulation remains in Article 15, then we will have the consequence in Article 18(4) that a formal request can be submitted in any language in which documents exist in a national authority. So it doesn't matter if it's Chinese, Swahili, Arabic; the state authority will be obliged to find a court interpreter at its expense to translate that document, and then, although it's very expensive, it won't be able to charge, because in Article 17 it's strictly determined which things can be asked for compensation. Then, as distorted as it is, the anti-legislative, even anti-systemic understanding offered by the Ministry is seen in the second part of the argument that begins with "the same" and continues "no change of attitude of the 6th member is accepted which strictly determines the 15-day period in which the applicant can remove the shortcomings of his request. The solution given in the proposal is much more flexible and contributes to the search engine. "It is said in Article 15's position that a 15-day deadline has to be given in which a deficit has to be removed. If this is interpreted this way, and it is said that the state authority can determine both the shorter and the longer term, then this 15-day deadline is completely unnecessary. Then why would it stand for 15 days, if there is already the authority of the state authority to say – it can be within 24 hours or it can be within two days. Then that solution is more flexible, it's that it creates legal uncertainty, but it's not true that it goes in favor of the search engine. It would go, possibly, in favour of the search engine, if it were to be set for a longer period of 15 days, but in this way it gives the state authority the opportunity to, on the basis of its free assessment and assessment, give a much shorter time limit for editing requests and thus abuse its right and prevent the applicant from settling his request. What was the essence of Part Two of this amendment, and apparently the Ministry of State gentlemen did not understand, is to ensure that a state body which rejects or rejects any request for some information because it is not possible to comply with that request has an obligation to provide the applicant with a conclusion on the rejection of the proposal. That was the essence, and that was the goal, so that the state authority couldn't simply reject someone's request because it couldn't be handled without in any way informing the applicant that his request had been rejected. In that case, the applicant will not even know that his request has been rejected and will not be able to complain, that he is potentially using his other rights, but will appeal, for example, to the trustee because he is not in charge of the request, so that he will only then receive information that his request has been rejected because he could not be acted upon.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7345	Mr. Baralić, MP of the people, then MP of the people Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7346	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is not usual for legal traffic in one country to operate languages that are not suited to the law. If we want to enable anyone who wants to get information of any rank or any meaning, we are able to all support it, but we have an obligation here and that, representing citizens whose will we are here, protecting national dignity and protecting a few laws that always touch any of the acts that we're talking about here. It is not possible in any serious state to ensure communication with national authorities in any language, but to prescribe in which languages, if bilingual administration, or as regulated, it can be done. The Committee on Culture and Information supported the Verice Radete amendment to Article 15 of the proposed law and, respecting the argument presented here by Mrs Radeta and Mr Sarovic, the SPS parliamentary group will support the amendment to Article 15.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7347	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7348	This amendment is trying to correct something that practically cannot be corrected. That's what I have to say and focus your attention on Article 2 and Article 4. It's a bill of law. If you look at this in one row of Article 2, Article 4 and Article 15, you'll see that there's been a general confusion of terms. It is probably assumed that information of public importance as a term is not only related to the location, place and status of the one who has the information, and then "public" is interpreted as a state, parastate, close state, what you define as the authority in one of the following members. In Article 4, you're talking about the legitimate interest that the public knows, that they get that information, so you divided it into two groups. For some where the law creates presummation, if it questions life, health, security, or not environmental security, and for another group, you said that if the authority does not prove that it has an interest not to be published, then that information is also considered to be of reasonable interest to be published. Of course, as a result of this confusion comes Article 15 in which the amendment only touches the part concerning the language of communication, but you have in one of the following views that one who submits a request does not even have to state the reason why he needs that information. And as searchers of information, legal, physical persons may appear, and by your concept, by strangers. I think you've overcome all possible frameworks in that democratisation. The Constitution does not give it the right to treat one who seeks information in this way and the Constitution does not allow him to have such rights at the beginning. It doesn't guarantee the Constitution. Be aware that we have a capillary network of spy structures in Serbia's territory, which are those who write the indictments, will probably reach out to the Serbian guard and someone else because they are preparing those from NGOs. They're going to interpret it this way -- knock, knock on the door, good day, I'm the one and that one, I need that information. Consider also the lack you have installed in Article 2(2) when defining what all information may be. Then, practically, the complete work is open as a can. It is about the same as when Svilanovic came as foreign minister, so he abolished the codes for communication between the embassy and the foreign ministry. No, Maja Nikolic said it goes through fax; she says what we need codes for when four Americans in the next office control everything. It's probably the same now. If this has been done to you by Vodnelic, Rakić - Vodnelic, Vodnelic, pull this, it's no good. Everything they wrote didn't come to life, nor did the Law on Broadcasting. This is what we talked about when the Public Information Act was passed. And he's disfigured. This won't come back to life, remember. Either you withdraw or accept these amendments to make this look as much like something.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7349	The People's Messenger, Vukosav Tomašević, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7350	The amendment shall be submitted to Article 15. This article begins with a chapter called The Procedure in front of the Authority, and then has the following chapter called the Procedure in front of the Trustee. There are about 15 members who are governed by the right of citizens to access information. Yesterday, from this pay phone, we were more urged to use this new law when it comes to encouraging and educating citizens to use this new right. I registered a completely opposite example this morning, so I need to bring it out here in public. So, at 10.00 p.m., a radio show, on the listener radio, the leader of multiple awards in the field of radio creation, includes a listener and asks: how am I supposed to do it now? She says, you know, that law establishes the trustee, you write to the trustee, so he answers you in 15 or 40 days, and if you are not satisfied, you have no right to appeal. This one says - what kind of law is that? I really feel the need to, on behalf of the legislator and all of us sitting here, but also on behalf of the citizens, appeal to the media to explain and to correctly interpret the rights of the citizens of this law, of course, and of all other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7351	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7352	The SRS amendment refers to the trustee institution. In principle, the Serbian Radical Party pointed out this as a fundamental remark. In fact, our wish was for it to be a government organ instead of a trustee. That's what Tomislav Nikolic said yesterday, and that we led some recklessly into this amendment to be a ministry, but yesterday we explained in detail that it would be good for the Administrative Committee in the Serbian Government to do so. In fact, it is clear in the proposal's explanation, if this amendment is accepted, that the essence of the law will change. More debate is being directed here when it comes to the availability of information, so during yesterday, there was controversy in the principle debate over what the true role of the trustee was. However, I would sort of explain what it means to information about the setting up of an institution that will be a mediator between the one who owns the information and the investigator who needs the information. That's clear, investigators are always either in most cases journalists, or citizens who are interested in certain information. This is where information selectivity is achieved. Why selectivity? Because the very nature of setting up a barrier or a mediator between one who owns information and one who needs information implies the possibility of selective information being provided. What's worse than the denied information, if someone's not clear, is giving selective information, they're the haired, manufactured information. Since we continue to express a large reserve when it comes to the impartiality of the future trustee, we do not express the reserve when it comes to its expertise, its expert part, but we still need to warn you to make sure that, while the time, through the amendment, repairs this law, is specified. My dear fellow journalists are right - the law stipulates that there is a deadline when they should receive information. Whoever does this as a trustee can, by respecting the law and within the framework of the law, give someone sooner and later information. Don't judge immediately, because the goal and essence of this proposal is not only European integration, but rather a little bit to the media, but obviously in the wrong way. You still have to listen, because you yourself spoke in the light of this law -- journalists are the eyes and ears of the people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7353	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking today about the law on the availability of information, and there is no TV transmission from the Serbian Parliament. No one's informed us why there's no TV transmission. Some of the fish are on channel three, in the aquarium. They may be waiting for the finance minister, I don't know what it is, but there's no transfer of the National Assembly session, so I'm interested in who banned this information and why it's not allowed for Serbian citizens to be familiar with what's going on in this high house. We could have guessed that, because I see that there are few people at the top of the government who want to attend this session. They're not particularly interested. There aren't any who are a little power, not a bit, when what suits them enough. It seems everyone knew but us, so it would be good, Mr. President, to let us know what the reason for not passing the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'd point to one more thing. I would like someone to answer that directly, and it would be good if Mr. Koadinović consulted with other colleagues and told us who would answer in this country; it was information that was available to the public, and they were not allowed to be available, because they were primarily untrue. It is the last case that represents the most terrible crime committed by Boris Stajkovac (by the way, a member of the Democratic Party); he is in the midst of a campaign that a Belgrade daily led against him, because of the pool and I don't know what miracles he has in the house, decided to transfer the message and draw attention to the other side and say that a man raped the baby and inflicted serious physical injuries on her. Then it turns out that man didn't do anything like that. He did no harm to one man, but in a frightening way he distracted public opinion from his property card. The question is, will someone always do it? Is that the democratic party's manners? Will such information be available in public? When someone finds you a pool and shows you a pool, or finds you some villas without knowing what you've been all about in your life except that you're a humanitarian worker, and you answer that by telling people, yeah, I found a man who raped a baby. That man didn't rape the baby. Is it by the same principle as when Mr. Tadic comes to people outside the presidency building, the poor come, the naked and the barefoot who seek freedom for themselves and their children seek their future, and if he tells them – excuse me, and who paid you the way? Oh, I'm sorry. Who paid you for the roads? Here, I'm looking at Palma Plus TV in Jagodina last night, and it says that 13 million are scheduled by contract to do business and exit to 46 million. In all cities the same, 3-4 times, and according to the law is possible only up to one quarter, i.e. up to 25%. Just grab and get where you're going and move the ball to the opposite side, and no one else does anything. Let's see who's responsible for that information. Let's see if anyone in Serbia has asked that question. Only one text about it could be written, one woman is, I think her name is Zora Latinovic, in NIN wrote a text about it. No one else in Serbia, although the whole of Serbia is disgusted by what Stajkovic was doing. He's disgusted. Because imagine if someone accused you of raping a child without any evidence, without any paper, that the bastard would take his attention off himself, his houses, his villas and his pools. Is that our country? Is there anyone who can answer for that? Is there anyone who can tell us how it's possible, how it's supposed to happen in a serious state of law? Or—there's no one here, we keep quiet, we don't care. Well, we wanted to stamp it as a phenomenon. You ruined the whole family! You wanted to stamp as a phenomenon to protect yourself as a phenomenon. Is that what we're supposed to agree to? Is that what will be available? Please again, Mr. President, let us know the reasons why there is no direct TV transmission. I hope it's not gonna be some new practice. Of course, time is up, but I'll let you know. ) I would ask you to inform us about this, and I would ask you to influence your authority, as the President of the National Assembly, and I know that you feel and feel the same way about this kind of abuse, because every normal person in Serbia feels the same way, that we do something, that we react and that this kind of abuse, of this kind of human impudence, of political indifference in the future, is prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7355	Thank you. They will repeat the announcement that the chairman, Mr. Mihailovic, has already passed on to the Assembly. So, for a time now, it's been settled, there's been no transmission for technical reasons, and that's what MPs are familiar with. It's a technical notice. As there was no electricity on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, because there was a trafo change in the Assembly, so it didn't want anyone to get hurt,... (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: I was just asking.) I thank you. This is a good example, just like the one you mentioned at the beginning, that there are no more dangerous things, and they can always be inconceivable consequences, if something that is in the domain of technique or what should be in the domain of the profession is being misused. Of course, the insistence of all of us today and on this law, I hope, is to prevent the error of information and to establish the right way, and I thank you all for your patience. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 19 and 19. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović. So there's no confusion, I'm going to try to read the amendment, because I see that people often... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the amendments to the SRS so far have been linked, with the aim of making this legal project fit, that it has some meaning in application, in practice and in life, as well as this amendment to Article 19, which speaks of the trustee and the trustee institution itself. Namely, the Institute itself – the trustee is something that is an institution itself, which we Serbian radicals disagree with, and that is why we have also suggested that these free access jobs be carried out by an authority, i.e. it would be best to have the Assembly Committee in charge. Thus, the Serbian Parliament, in some ways, and even citizens would have control and insight into labour control and access to information. This law, like all previous laws that have been passed in this high house, is unfortunately only distracting the public and citizens of Serbia. In fact, it draws their attention from those burning problems, which is that in this assembly house we should discuss first and foremost those laws that solve the problems of Serbian citizens, such as the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Labour and many other legislative projects that are much more pressing. Unfortunately, we have been passing laws here for months now, and Serbia's citizens have very little or perhaps nothing. Each legislative project proposed, as well as this one, aims to distract citizens of Serbia, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to get in touch with foreign mentors, many NGOs, who are free to operate freely with our country, which unfortunately undermine this system and the state of Serbia, such as domestic mercenaries Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko and others; when there are no major earthquakes in Serbia, they import foreigners who will make something in Serbia's territory, such as this latest imports of Hungarian fascists into Mali Iđoš. Unfortunately, the government and the Serbian government do not react to that. Only a few journalists write something. It's waiting for something more difficult to do, that's to say, don't mind someone. That's the burning thing, which is why we all have to fight in this high house, because that's why the people chose us. The word itself – the trustee is not something new, but it is new in practice to have such powers and powers and to be able to do whatever he wants without any control. At the initiative of one-third of the MPs, the trustee may be replaced, but if this is assessed by the Committee on Culture and Information. So, just that trustee institute is for itself. All the legal projects we adopt here, and the Serbian Government is proposing, aim to transfer the burden and responsibility to someone else, someone else; whether it's some agency or some committee, whether it's some advice or here's the latest one -- the trustee, is the main one to transfer their responsibility to someone, and there they'll say it's a non-partisan personality. However, the same figure will be set up by the Serbian government, i.e. it will be one obedient, who will obey the orders and demands of the authorities. So that's what the Serbian government is divorcing. He simply wants to have some detours, while on the other hand he wants to court the European organisations that ask the Serbian government to decentralise and democratisation our society. Finally, I will also say that this high house would have to adopt our amendments, because only by installing our amendments enables us to get a law that will be applicable in the practice and life of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7357	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, Mrs. Snow White-Stojacic. I would like to remind you that the amendment: In the title above article 19, the word "religious" is replaced by the word "minister", and in article 19, the word "religious" is replaced by the word "minister", and the word "trustor" is replaced by the word "minister".
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7358	Mr. President, I follow the course of the assembly session, and when I answer my word, I always know what amendment it is. In view of the clarification and clarification of certain matters, I would really have to remind myself that the MPs of the SRS have repeatedly said that the proposed amendment, which they are asking for the removal of trustees and propose to entrust the ministry's work with complaints, is not well-determined. Now we've heard from one MP that he thinks a better solution would be to do so by the Administrative Committee. At this session, we are not able to make an amendment to the amendment, so I am asking the representatives to identify themselves, whether they remain with all their amendments, because all the amendments concern the trustee. We have heard that they themselves have found that their amendment to Article 1 is not appropriate and that it does not offer a good solution, because it is quite certain that the complaint cannot be made to the authority from which the information is required according to the law, so when it does not give you, it also acts as a second-degree body, which is a completely unknown procedure in the positive regulations. I don't think there should be any further debate, because it's impossible to accept the amendments that I'm proposing say are not based on this law that's on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7359	Thank you. Anyone else on this amendment? Necessa Sarovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know who Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić needs to be proven and why she is so burdened with the amendments of the SRS. Unlike your MP group, we each have a democratic right to think and you should not be surprised if one MP thinks this way, and some other thinks that maybe another solution would be good. These are democratic fluids and you could learn something from us. As for the amendment, if you're already saying that when an amendment is submitted, there is a solution that needs to be offered, I will return to your amendment that you gave to Article 4 where the word "conversely" is replaced by the words "to mediate a case for which this law excludes or restricts the right to access to information". What's the basic problem with that article is that the government's authority is proving it. Whether to prove otherwise or prove what you said, it is essential that there is no procedure in which the Authority will prove it. Your amendment is as pointless as the Ministry's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7361	Please, let's talk about the amendments that are on the agenda. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Igor Bečić submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 20 and 20. The amendment reads: In the title above Article 20, "the trustee" is replaced by the word "ministration", and in Article 20, "the trustee" is replaced by the word "ministration". The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Igor Mirovic submitted an amendment to the title of the chapter above Articles 22 and 22. The amendment reads: The name of the chapter above Article 22 is changed and the procedure before the ministry is replaced by the word "minister" in Article 22, which is replaced by the word "minister" in point 3. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The amendment reads: Articles 22, paragraphs 2 and 3 are deleted. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Committee on Culture and Information proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. You want a word? Snezana Lakicevic - Stojačić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7362	I am impressed by the democratic capacity of the Serbian Radical Party MPs and I welcome the fact that the last two MPs have given up explaining their amendments, because they have therefore come to realize all the senselessness of proposing amendments that are practically legally impossible. As for the amendment to Article 22, I think it may be the most important amendment that the DS parliamentary group has submitted to this law and I am pleased to conclude that all members of the Committee on Culture and Information unanimously supported this amendment. By erasing the positions of 2nd and 3rd, the rights of form of this law are achieved, as excluding the possibility of a right to appeal in the decision of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Constitutional Court of Serbia and the Republic Public Prosecutor, you are making it very impossible for information seekers to obtain information from those entities from which they can be expected to be sought most often, and to file a complaint, rather than refer them to the launch of a administrative dispute in the next position. There is a general guarantee of public work in the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 10 also states that the work of state authorities is available to the public. The Charter of Human and Minority Rights, which is an integral part of the Constitutional Charter, also contains a provision on the right to the availability of data. There is no possibility of introducing two categories of authorities in any of the country's positive regulations. I do not see any reason why the Ministry has not accepted this amendment and why it thinks that citizens of the Republic of Serbia or anyone who is allowed the right to ask for information could not be allowed to complain about the lack of information by the highest authorities. I would ask Mr. Minister to explain to us why the Republic Government and the Ministry did not accept this amendment, because that means that this law has a narrow fact, that it applies only to lower authorities, to authorities in local self-governments, at regional level and thus prevents the right to the availability of information, rather than knowing that this fundamental human right in the new constitutions of modern countries is classified as the right for which the state requires it to have special protection. I hope that MPs of the Republic's parliament, no matter what political party they belong to, will use the right of capacity of the free term and of their own free will, reading once more a member of the law but also an amendment, will vote in favour of this amendment. Because it is in our best interest that this law on free access to information of public importance really be something that we will be able to enable all interested natural, legal persons, as well as members of information funds, to come to the information they care about in a simple way, and that, if they are denied that right, they are making complaints to the trustee responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7363	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 23 and 23. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment reads: In the title above Article 23, the word "religious" is replaced by the word "ministers", and in Article 23, the word "trustor" is replaced by the word "minister". Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7364	This law is not bad, but it is not European for us to be admitted to this Europe tomorrow. He's just the beginning of something called access to public information. We've had access to certain information so far. I don't want to comment on how it all happened and what direction it all went, which I think this law will regulate, and we'll tell someone there – yes, we passed that law. Some analysts say that this law is a maze that can and does not have to be solved, and we will see in further context whether and when it is applicable, whether there is a dynamic that will solve this matter in the shortest time period. If there is an acceptance of our amendments, and we have mostly set them up and suggested that trustees should not be in this law, we will accept this proposal and vote for it. We're mostly setting things up in the context that the proposed trustees are being removed from the law and that these jobs are being done by a committee. We have installed this proposal in the system so that more responsibility is given to the ministry; and the trustee, someone said a mistrustee, we know that those in Serbia today have more than they need. We will not allow people like our enemies, such as Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic, Biljana Vuco and Borka Pavicevic and other analysts of our present and creators of the future, who daily poison our public with known information that we Serbs are responsible for everything. The term trustee is not founded in law or in the Constitution. We had a desk up until recently, and he was doing wonders. We all know how this bureau worked, he had unlimited powers and they were abused, and today he feels this abuse. We don't want these trustees to be non-partisan personalities or any experts, for reasons I've already pointed out. My amendment proposes: in the title above Article 23, the word "religious" is replaced by the words "some committee", and in Article 23, the word "religious" is replaced by the words "some committee". This amendment is in line with our proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7365	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Petar Jojic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 25 and 25. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed law contains 50 members. Twenty-two members regulate trustees' powers and rights. Article 25 provides for the power to decide the trustee in this procedure by means of a solution. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, we believe that the powers of trustees are equal, at least as far as I'm concerned, immunity and the powers that Reza Pahlavi had in Iran. It doesn't suit anyone, the congregation chooses him, there's no guilt if he abuses his position. What's gonna happen in practice? This trustee, ladies and gentlemen, who, as a new institution, which the Constitution does not know, is proposed by the promoter, will be the biggest information trader. You heard what the MP Mr. Vukic said just now. He reminded you, and I believe you've all been aware of yourself, which all the consequences and disturbances of the public caused by one false piece of information, released into the air, in the printed and electronic media, caused by the damage to that family. Those powers granted to the trustee are not constitutional categories. Therefore, the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party have been made in good faith, in order to correct the text of the law, to make this law practical, to ensure that dispositive norms are implemented, and if you do not accept them, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, this law will look like ordinary paper. In practice, it will not be applicable, and it will cause a number of consequences and many abuses of one power, that no one in the country has more authority, and it will be your biggest information trader.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7367	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government proposes not to accept the amendment, the Committee on Culture and Information proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7368	The amendment to Article 25 is in a very close relationship with the amendment to Article 22 and in fact complies with this law if an amendment to Article 22 is adopted. The most important thing in our country right now is to build trust with the institutions of government. The most important thing in this country is to try to come up with the great mistrust that we have and to build the faith of people in each of us who performs a public function, that if they want to get some information from the authorities, they can get that information. No one should be an exception and this amendment effectively erases the views of Articles 2 and 3 and suspends the privilege that can be enjoyed by the most state-run authorities in the Republic of Serbia and allows information seekers to receive information from the highest authorities that is relevant to them and that if they do not receive a complaint from the trustee. No provision of this law states that it should be an extra-party personality, but says that it cannot be the bearer of the highest functions in one party, nor in a permanent working relationship with a political party; it cannot be a trader of information without control, because it is appointed by the majority of the Republic Assembly, and thus depends on the will of the majority in the republic's parliament. It also controls his work and, according to positive regulations, that is, the provisions in this law may be revoked if that function does not work well enough. From the fact that he is appointed by the Republic Assembly, his reputation, legitimacy, and authority to act on the appeal that information seekers will be able to make to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7369	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Milorad Krstin submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 26 and 26. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7370	Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Committee on Culture and Information, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on free access to information of public importance. Someone on the board said we'd re-painted the text from a country in the environment. If we have to have that law, and we should probably have it, it's logical that we get it from the European Union, and I guess, as you say, we're going to enter the European Union in 2014, but if we're going to rewrite this law from countries in the environment, I hope we're going to enter 2041. Namely, in the title above article 26. - Establishing the facts by the trustees should be the word "minister". In Article 26, paragraph 1: "The Commissioner is taking action to determine the actual state of play that is necessary for the adoption of the resolutions set out in Articles 24 and 25 of this Act", it is logical to say "The Ministry is taking action to determine... "and so on. Also, in the second position, instead of saying "the trustee" stands the word "minister". The main stumbling block, as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, is the very word "religious". Gentlemen, we have agencies at the Ministry of Health and the Agency at the Ministry of Energy, and suddenly a new word appears, the trustee. The trustee is a man with a recognised reputation and expertise in the field of protection and promotion of human rights, but a man who is elected for seven years. That's very interesting. So the trustee is entitled to a deputy elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the trustee. So neither the MP nor the parliamentary group nor the president of the National Assembly has the right to propose, but once again the trustee has the right to propose, which the National Assembly will adopt; and that deputy is also elected for seven years. Therefore, gentlemen, if you really think that this law is a law that will be a law that is worthy of one law on free access to information of public importance, you must make sure that the main stumbling block here is "the trustee" and that all amendments proposed by the SRS are accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7371	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 26 has been unspoken and will create problems when the law is passed, and it is obvious that the law will have the majority needed to be voted in parliament. Article 26(1) should further explain what the trustee will do when he receives a complaint referred to in Article 24. In this respect, Article 24 provides that the trustee shall adopt a solution to the appeal without delay, after allowing the Authority to make a written statement. Now in Article 26, you say, the trustee is taking action to determine the actual situation that is necessary for the adoption of the solution referred to in Article 24. There is no further indication of what actions the trustee is taking to determine the actual situation. Whether the trustee has the right to call for information talks, to legislate, to bring in; what actions the trustee may take to determine the actual situation, if this is not a written statement by the authority already provided for in Article 24, even there it is said that, if necessary, the claimant may be made in writing. What other actions does the legislator provide that the trustee is taking over, therefore, whether he is taking over the interior ministry's intelligence and conducting the actions to determine the actual situation, whether he is conducting an investigation, which the state authorities are helping him carry out in carrying out the investigation? It's not worth writing about the trustee like this, because neither he knows what he can do, nor we who need to make a statement about this law know what he's going to do. It's so wide-ranging that he can do whatever he wants, because the law gives him the right to take action to determine the actual state. If it's the law, it's a lot. So, if the Constitution writes – the trustee takes action to determine the actual state of affairs, I could agree and say, well, the law will work out a constitutional solution, but here by law you provide for a general provision, so the trustee may, by his act or by some organization, decide that he will determine how to determine the actual state. What if he writes there that he's gonna call the parties, what if the parties don't respond? Is there a criminal measure if someone doesn't respond to the trustee to make a statement? They can't even respond, because in Article 24, you've provided for an exclusive written statement by the authorities. I suppose we'll come up with criminal provisions, that you've provided for a criminal measure for Article 24 for one who doesn't give a written statement. If this is already foreseen by one member, why has this spread to Article 26? I'm against this trustee. It's not a constitutional category, and you're predicting too much jurisdiction. That's why I'm up for a new constitution. Let's write it down. But what are you doing? You write new laws that adapt our legislation to European Union legislation, and I agree with that, but you have no basis for that in the basic act, the Constitution of Serbia. So I ask you, don't sew clothes first, so you can make a child, but first make a child, and when it is born, buy him everything you need.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7373	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 27 and 27. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7374	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS, both yesterday and today, tell you that we have nothing against the intentions and ideas of the legislator of this law on free access to information of public importance, because it is precisely intent and idea that is good. What are we criticizing in the bill? So certain wrong institutes, expressions, inaccuracies in terminology, especially legal ones. In this proposal for an amendment to Article 27, the emphasis is not on having the ministry in charge of resolving the case of an appeal, but rather on not introducing a trustee institute. One lady criticised our intention to provide, instead of the trustees, for some other institute, such as the ministry, and of course, we realized that another body needed to be introduced, perhaps to be the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or another state body. But it's not about who it's gonna be, because our accent is just about not being a trustee as an institute, and why? Because in the bill of law, you gave him too many rights and powers. You even went to the inaccuracy that you were in the provisions of Article 1. The bill said the trustee was an independent state body. If you're talking about the trustee, the person the National Assembly is going to choose, it's one person, an individual, and in any case, one person can't be a state organ. It's not the judge of the state, it's the court. It's not the Minister of State, it's the Ministry. So the trustee can't be a state authority, he can be an authorized person with certain rights and obligations, but certainly not a state body. That is the fundamental reason why we of the SRS are against introducing trustees as an institute in this law on free access to information of public importance. There are amendments to this bill, probably in this part. We appeal to the proposing representative on this matter to see the justification of our objections, to accept what we are looking for, to indicate that it is not good; then the law itself will be given to quality, and the amended bill would be acceptable to us SRS MPs. Next, Article 32, we criticised it yesterday. You are giving unlimited criminal and legal immunity to the trustee, therefore, that is a higher degree than the MPs, the president of the Republic of Serbia, members of the government, enjoy. The trustee cannot be punished and called on to be held accountable for an opinion on any part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You say, apparently, within the framework of his rights and powers and duties he performs as a trustee. The MP cannot be punished for his opinion only on this speaker, in this hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Then, when it comes to criminal acts and detention for criminal offences, the trustee cannot be detained regardless of which crime is called to account, no matter which sentence is applied for committing a crime. Whether it is a one-year prison sentence, five, ten, twenty-years-old, the trustee cannot be detained, while the MP and, adequately constitutional provisions, the President of the Republic, members of the government, the Constitutional Court judges can be detained if they are found in the execution of a criminal offence for which the sentence of prison is scheduled for more than five years. Do you not think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is something wrong here, that it is necessary to amend the provisions of the bill in order to comply with our legal order? In addition, it is already said, the category of criminal-legal immunity is provided only by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and it cannot, in our legal order, be provided for by some lower act, in this case by law. The most important thing in all of this is for the information to be true and true, for all of us, for the sake of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to protect and prevent child abuse for media manipulation and to play the legal order of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7375	The SRS parliamentary group president Tomislav Nikolic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to prove to you the absurdity of the institution of trustees, as conceived in this bill of law, comparing that Article 27, Article 22, and Articles 1 and 3. You see, Article 27 says that an administrative dispute can be initiated against the resolution of the trustees, and that is the same fate as with the resolution of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor. I understand that you have no right to appeal against a trustee's solution, no one to complain to. He's, for God's sake, independent. I understand that you have declared the legal solutions by giving the state authority, which is listed in Article 3(1) as a state body, the right not to comply with this law. There is no trustee for the government of the Republic of Serbia. She doesn't have any contact with him. She has no obligation to him. It is a member of Article 24 that the trustee allows the Authority to make a written statement, but there is no obligation by the authorities to make a written statement. So this is the law you predicted... I single out the government of the Republic of Serbia because we are somehow opposed to the authority, I could say that for both the National Assembly and all others, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia has no obligation to the trustee. It is absurd for me to have this solution so that the court informs the trustee that there is a administrative dispute over some of the solutions issued by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the availability of information. What's he doing in this administrative dispute? To send one of his clerks, like we have at the Watcher Gallery, he doesn't have another role. He can't do anything anymore. There is also an administrative dispute against the resolution of the trustees. If the authority of territorial autonomy refuses to give you information, you have the right to appeal to the trustee, and to the solution of the trustee, that's the second degree, you have the right to have an administrative dispute. Three times you're exercising your right. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia gives you a solution, you immediately go to the administrative dispute. No complaints, no trustees. For the most important information, the trustee won't be able to help you, so what do we need him for? Because of the local self-government unit that's hiding some information. Don't adopt a bomb like this because of the local self-government unit. We need someone to provide us with information from the government of Serbia, the president of Serbia, the National Assembly, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, the Republic Public Prosecutor. We need protection past the protection so far, because this law introduces new protection of our rights, and you, for the most important authorities, direct us to the solutions so far, to the administrative dispute. A citizen can take it now. I don't see the purpose of passing this law if in front of that trustee, who you gave immunity to, who you said was independent in the work, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not standing; if he can't assess her solution, if he can't oppose her solution, then I don't see the function of the trustee. The laws exist to prevent the self-will of officials and judges. That's the definition of the 12th century. This law does not prevent the self-will of the bearers of power. A law that prevents the self-will of power-holders, the general law, already exists. This special law that should have further protected us against any additional protection against those for which it is actually being passed. The Serbian public would never stand up because a municipal authority did not say whether the drinking water was correct or not. But whether there was an election theft, whether the results were well established, whether the bodies of the authorities were established after the elections, that is, the information owed to us by the authorities, who are no longer responsible to us. So I ask you to take the law seriously, so we don't waste any time. We could've done a lot more serious jobs today. This law could have had 10 members, and I would have raised my hand immediately as a trustee, but only if it were above the government, above the president, above the Assembly. If he's independent, then yes. And if, as individuals, a trustee makes us go after Serbia to make statements, there's nothing from that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7377	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Snow White - Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7378	It is very important that the trustee be above the Parliament, above the government, that information seekers have the opportunity to declare a complaint about the solutions made by the Government, the Assembly or the highest state bodies that are required of information. What surprises me at this time is the fact that the MPs of the Democratic Party and of the Serbian Radical Party are replaced by the fact that the parties that make up the Government and the representatives of the Government have absolutely nothing to say about this law, because we have all found that they have new rights; that they have nothing to say about amendments to Article 22, which certainly improves this right, certainly gives even greater importance to this law, and that ultimately, this institution of trustees puts them in that place and gives them powers that they certainly need to have in order to build trust in the institutions of the system, in the government, in the National Assembly and all of us who exercise power at any level: local, regional or highest level, the level of the state of Serbia. What I'd still have to say is it's impossible to even the prosecutor and his jurisdiction with the authority of the trustees. First of all, the prosecutor is not an administrative authority. Secondly, the prosecutor does not make the solutions, and therefore against the prosecutor's decision or decision, as has just been said, cannot be initiated by the administrative dispute. It's basic legal knowledge. The administrative dispute is being brought against the authority of the administration, against the decision taken by the authority of the administration, and this is being brought by the complaint by the administrative dispute. The trustee should not send anyone to debates with the authorities in the administrative dispute, because, as I said, the proceedings are being initiated by the prosecution and decided in an out-of-court manner. Therefore, there is no reason to ask this as a question, because it represents a fundamental ignorance of the right to equalise the public prosecutor or prosecutors, proceedings before the prosecution and proceedings before the trustee, because these are to this extent different things that it is unacceptable to try to even their powers, but also procedures that are conducted before these state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7379	Article 99: "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. “ That is why everyone who respects the congregation is now talking about what is on the agenda, and these are amendments. It's very natural to me what you said, the people who spoke about the law were talking and it's natural that they don't answer now. Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7380	Ma'am, I don't know what you've been coming after me like a honey bee and why you have to comment on everything I say about this pay phone. When you want to comment, turn on all the screws. I've been commenting on a legal solution, not showing whether I have legal knowledge or not. The bill contains this solution that you're telling me I don't have enough legal knowledge. Tell that to the legislator, or tell your party, she suggested it. In Article 22, paragraphs 2 and 3, what you are attacking me for is regulated, and it says "against the resolution of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Constitutional Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor cannot be declared a complaint. "Resumption: "against the resolution of the 2nd article's position, a administrative dispute can be initiated... "That's what it says here. I didn't say I was going to have a dispute against a prosecutor's solution, it says in this law that you're going to vote for.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7381	First, please, no throwing. Second, once again I remind you of Article 99, the speaker speaks of a matter that is on the agenda. On the agenda is an amendment relating to the title above Article 27 and Article 27. I ask everyone who missed in the previous period, when we talked about other amendments, not to return to those amendments. Let's respect the basic logic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7382	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 97. I was misread. In that part, we agreed. The Democratic Party's amendment to this article is something that corrects the anomaly that is in this law, given the circumstances, as it is. I've already realized that all MPs unanimously accepted the amendment, so it's something we didn't argue about, and you didn't listen well. What I have pointed out is that it is impossible to equate powers, jurisdiction and proceedings before the prosecution and authority, jurisdiction and procedure before the trustee. One is the administrative dispute...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7383	Mrs. Stojacic, I'm going to have to interrupt you, because I warned you yesterday that article 97. The rules of procedure only regulate the basis of which the replica is sought. It's not a member of which you can talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I accepted the explanation you gave. Be kind, or call another member...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7384	I was misread, and that was why I had the right to address the National Assembly, since it was not about what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7385	It's an interpretation that, if you're misread, you're calling for a replica. That's quite clear. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, pursuant to Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been amended to propose a law on free access to information of public importance. It is Article 28 where certain provisions on the legal force, i.e. the obligation to resolve and conclude: "The decision and conclusions of the trustees are binding. The execution of solutions and credentials, in case of need, is provided by the government of the Republic of Serbia. "It was explained that in this way the concept of the law was changed, the Institute of Trustees and its powers were transferred to the competent ministry. It is considered that the concept of a law providing for a trustee for information of public importance contributes more to the affirmation of the right to free access to information of public importance. In any case, citizens either have the right to free access to information or do not have it. I don't think this is about any greater contribution to the affirmation of that right. It is more important that the commissioner has a longer mandate than the MPs of the National Assembly, than the president of Serbia, because the MP's mandate lasts for a maximum of four years, the president for five years, and the trustee has been proposed here for seven years, and the possibility that he can have the same mandate twice. The very position of the trustees is with great authority, ingenuity and immunity which, apparently, has no basis in the existing Constitution. There are even more ingenuity than there are judges of the Supreme Court. That's why the MPs of the SRS are trying to change the existing bill. The DS representative, who has been authorised, repeatedly interprets the behaviour of the SRS MPs. Even when some MPs are not present in the O.R., they realize that they have given up the amendment, not knowing that they are not physically present. If it has the right to start working in the National Assembly as a member of the People's Party, and now represents another party, and perhaps by the end of the mandate to represent the third party, then the SRS MPs have the right to differ and defend their amendments in the best possible way. In order for everyone to know what this behavior is about, it's because in that last meeting, the parliamentary majority of the DOS changed its Rules of Procedure. It was clear before - every MP explains the amendment, who agrees, is fine, and who has different arguments can make it. Right after that, the government also said that MPs were voting on the amendment. If you go with the amendment to Article 1 and then you have a dozen more amendments to follow that first amendment, you must accordingly follow all amendments. For the very reason that we do not have the opportunity to immediately declare this amendment, we are obliged, as MPs, to follow the entire law, from the first to the last member. The fact that you had earlier problems, as you have now, that you have a quorum, so you have to schedule a voting day on a special day so that you can vote on what you suggested, that's your problem, not what you've repeatedly insisted on, because it's obvious that you're not being directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7387	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Please don't... (He speaks to the MP Snowman Lakicevic-Stojačić. ) Here you are, so much for kindness, now according to the Rules of Procedure – replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7388	Dear sir, this is not about the different opinion represented among the Serbian Radical Party MPs, but about the conclusion of one of the SRS MPs that the amendment to article 1 is not good for you. Because of the finding of your parliamentary group that the amendment you have submitted is not good and does not mean a quality solution, I have asked whether you will give up the amendments that follow it. I thought you'd simply figured that out and in that sense you'd give up commenting on the amendments that don't bring or improve the solution. And the solution that you later remembered, in order for the Administrative Board to do so, is, unfortunately, an ex-post mind that you cannot realise on this occasion and with these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7389	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? MP Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7390	Yes, as a grandfather, I advise you that it's always better to have an ex-post mind than none. But we didn't need the amendment to Article 1 and the amendments to the other members are valid – you couldn't understand that. So let's get this straight. It's not good because it won't be implemented in practice. Now I'm going to prove to you how I know it won't be. "The resolution and conclusions of the trustees are binding. The execution of solutions and credentials, in case of need, is provided by the government of the Republic of Serbia. "This provision is very similar to the provisions governing the work of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. So, what happens in case the Constitutional Court makes a decision, and the Democratic Party won't implement that decision? It's binding. The government is obliged to implement it. It's not being carried out by anyone. So, what was the consequence, apart from the political consequences of the election, and you've already been a bit of a wrinkle, so you're breaking up? What's the second consequence? How will the government implement this obligation if it does not wish, as it did not wish in the case of some MPs whom you have denied here and the Constitutional Court has determined that you have denied them their rights. Does the trustee have a police service? Does the trustee have any bodyguards from the police? Does he have any debt exorcisors? What force is available to the trustee if the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not ensure the execution of its solution and conclusion and what punishment it is for the Government of the Republic of Serbia if it does not provide; beware that it is formulated, "the execution of solutions and the conclusion of the trustees provides". He executes, and they give him security? Well, you see how pointless the whole law is. We'll take part in power after the next election, I guarantee you, but I'd hate to find a law like this. I would hate to have a legal counsellor come to me and say, "We can avoid this and stay in accordance with the law, because the law is set in such a way that it does not bind us." I wish when we make laws, they make commitments. In principle, this law is due to a dispute of citizens with some state authority. You want to help a citizen. Secure him by this law, lest his help be denied, lest there be a dead letter left on paper. It's my only goal, and that's why I go out so often for the amendment pay phone, not to fight politically against you or any other party, but to get the better legal solution, so that we don't have people who read this as the final text.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7391	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted an amendment to the title of Chapter V, title above Article 29 and Article 29. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Pai Momcilov submitted an amendment to the title above Article 30 and Article 30. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? Please agree, MP Tomislav Nikolic can go first, since he is older.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in relation to Article 30, I'm going to repeat part of my discussion in principle, because I don't think that might have been enough, and I won't speak too long. It offends me that in your position of 2nd, you have provided that for the trustee, the National Assembly chooses a person with a recognised reputation and expertise in the field of protection and promotion of human rights. Since there is no degree to recognize the reputation, then the Assembly will have to form a new body – a reputation recognition committee, and any official to whom the conditions of the elections are recognised, will have to address the committee of recognition the reputation to recognise it. But another question arises – who will honor the committee to recognize its reputation? Because in order to judge whether to recognize someone’s reputation, you must be recognized for yourself. Did he deserve his reputation to be recognized by one who is in power or by one who is in opposition? What are the criteria for recognition of reputation? So, is there a graduation? It is acknowledged that he is respected, he is admitted to be the most respected, he is admitted to be the most respected. What you did not write – the person recognized most, for the lowest degree – is respected. There is more of it – the most prominent and the most prominent. Second, what do you need for a trustee – a proven human rights fighter? Here you need a lawyer who will determine whether the solution is in accordance with this law or not, whether the state body should have given information or not. So, what does that have to do with fighting for human rights? Well, you don't think that every time we invent an institution that's going to fight for some right condition, it should be that a human rights fighter is being witnessed. Now, who's gonna give a witness to a man that he's a human rights fighter? The Assembly Committee for the issuing of testimonies to human rights fighters. Who's going to issue a witness to the Assembly's committee so they can issue testimony to human rights fighters? That's how you get entangled like a chicken in a puppy. Why don't you just tell us who's supposed to be here? To tell you the truth, with all this jurisdiction, with this much protection, with all this praise, with immunity, only the president of some of your parties will apply for this. It seems to me that the president of one of your parties can't afford to have someone more prominent than him, that he has someone who's a bigger human rights fighter than he is, that he has someone who's a bigger lawyer than he is. Did you set this up for some political party president who's pulling out of politics? I'd really like to know. And if you've already written the terms, how many years of life does he have to have? Will it be someone who is more asked to do so, or will the provisions of the Labour Law apply to him? Will he have to retire when his age comes? Life of work runs, you come to 65 years of age, and you're not yet testifying as a human rights fighter, no one's ever recognized you, and you have to retire. I'm trying to convince you how much nonsense this law has been passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7393	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7394	Mr. President, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, yesterday I pointed to a problem in this article and I want to ask all those who propose the laws that send us that what cannot be precisely defined should not stand in law. There are several important principles in the frame, from recording, deployment, evaluation, evaluation, protection, etc. When you give someone a medal, then you can say it's a respectable man, that he did this or what he did in life. When you prescribe it in law, then you can't get out of it without making a mistake about someone. I don't dispute the good intentions of the promoter, but I don't think either this law or any other law can withstand the establishment of a criteria that needs to be ensured to be staffed, to make the choice of appropriate people in responsible places, and for that we are all interested. To repeat yesterday's sentence - what cannot be measured, which cannot be measured cannot be in law, cannot be evaluated. The reputation is something that is achieved during life, professional and other engagements, is achieved primarily by behavior, leaves an impression on the environment, the public and the public may have such an opinion about it, but there is no place in the law for such a thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7395	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 31 and 31. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7396	Ladies and gentlemen, following the debate so far, I can't help but think that Mrs. Snezana's proposed law is Lakicevic-Stojacic. That's why I looked at what it says on the front page. It says the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing, at least formally. Neither the government representative nor the assembly majority MPs are involved in this debate. As far as the law itself is concerned, he's quite confused, in many segments he's superficial, unspeakable. Many provisions are ambiguous, without concrete solutions. In many provisions where deadlines are mentioned, they are extremely long, and we know that information is very often and daily current. I believe that such a law will be very difficult to implement in practice, and therefore the Government, which is the representative of the Government present here, should intervene to suspend this debate and to regulate this law in a legally valid manner, to be more concrete, more complex, clearer, so that it can then be accepted by all MPs and adopted in this assembly. As far as the amendment that I have submitted to Article 31 is concerned, it is a logical trail and a continuation of previous amendments, namely the different concepts that the SRS represents here. Article 31 refers to the trustee provided for by this law and speaks about how the trustee ends his term of office. A lot of arguments have already been made in support of why we can't accept the trustee, at least not in this way, and I'm going to repeat some of these arguments that are most important to me. And the former Article 30, which is explained, also gives a strong argument that makes it impossible to accept the trustee, is a way of choosing the trustees, we've already heard that, and I'd say just a few more arguments that are very important to me and that speak in favour of our concept that the trustee can't be constructed in this way. Namely, this law provides for a trustee who will have extremely broad powers, but this trustee, in addition to his personality, also implies an appropriate professional service defined by Article 34, which means that, in addition to the already bulky and huge state apparatus, besides all the agencies that we have so far voted, adopted, we will have another service to do the jobs provided for by this law. The service will have a number of employees, which is self-determined by the trustee; who will be employed, in which place and in what way, on the systematicisation of the place, the structure of the service is decided by the trustee, which is also very problematic from our point of view unacceptable. We believe that within the framework of an existing state apparatus, a solution can be found and one of the existing state authorities is left with this job, in order to take advantage of the existing authorities and the existing infrastructure that the state authorities have, not to invent new places, new services and to employ new people in these places, all of which on the burden of this people, or taxpayers who finance the state. Also important are costs, as part of this, mentioned in the explanation, which says that in the next two months, perhaps in a shorter period, by the end of the year, it will be necessary to provide about five million dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget for trustees' costs and services that may not even be established in the next two months. This concludes that in the following year we will have a minimum cost of 30 million dinars for the work of this service. It's probably going to be a lot more, and that's a big cost to this country, this people who are in a difficult situation. Once again, I would like the minister to get a little more involved in the work here, to think about all this, that maybe we should interrupt the session, so that we can find some solution that will be acceptable to all the MPs here, so that, if we already bring it, we can live in practice, that we don't bring something that won't in practice come to life... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Because we're going to formally try to tell Europe, here, we have one law that is in line with your recommendations, but that really won't come into practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7397	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Nikolic, come in. I warn the People's MPs not to call from this pay phone for a violation of the law. The clarifications work, I suppose all MPs know well that when the debate begins, the law cannot in any way withdraw from the agenda. Therefore, let us not call upon such things. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7398	I know you need publicity, Mr. President, but don't break the law when you give an explanation. At any time, the proposer can withdraw the bill from the procedure; take a break and withdraw the bill. I would criticise Article 31 with two aspects, technically and as a solution. The technical aspect is to repeat Article 30 in Section 3. If you have already prescribed that the trustee cannot be a person who is not a citizen of Serbia, a person who is a functioner or is employed by a state body or a political party, then you do not have to state that as a reason to suspend the trustee's term. Of course, if one of these conditions is obtained, he can't be a trustee. He can't be elected, and then you write if he starts doing it he can't be a trustee. It says he can't be a trustee. That's quite clear. The most dangerous thing to do is to get rid of duties if he does his job indiscriminately and unwittingly. That's the strong trustee who's independent of his work. You guarantee him that independence in Article 1(2). You guarantee him that he is independent in his work, and then you say that the congregation can assess that he is unprofessionally and unconsciously doing his job. Is he independent? It's not. Who's it up to? Of the majority in the Assembly. I have been a witness since 2000, saying that judges and prosecutors have been unwittingly and unprofessionally doing their job because DOS wanted to bring in its judges and prosecutors. What happens now to the trustee you choose for seven years? A change in power and a third of MPs is proposed to establish that the trustee is doing his job unprofessionally and unwittingly, the new assembly majority is voting that he is unprofessionally and unconsciously doing his job and is choosing a new trustee. Since you've been doing it since you came to power, and I'm not saying that anyone else would do it, then why didn't you say in the law that the trustee could be relieved even if the government changed? Don't tell me the trustee isn't a political being, that he's an idiot, so he doesn't care who's in power, so he doesn't care who's gonna propose him here and choose him, he's a trustee, born to the trustee. Whether DOS will be in power or the SRS or the SPS, it doesn't matter to him, he's a trustee. It was written in his birth certificate -- he was born a trustee. Each government decides who will be the trustee. To be chosen, there must be a majority in the congregation. To be resolved, a different majority must be created in the National Assembly. So much for the independence of the trustees, so I'm telling these future creditors -- it doesn't take you seven years, not up to 65 years of your life, but it takes your term as long as that power that has chosen you. In Serbia, a new government – a new trustee. The new government has no confidence in the old trustee. That's because you predicted a seven-year term in a member before that. Isn't it too much seven years for one function? You're counting on one prominent face, with a recognized reputation, to remain in the place of trustee for seven years. Imagine, a man with such qualifications and agreed to be a trustee for seven years. There will be no judge of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Supreme Court, will not be President of the Republic, wants to be a confidant. Seven years, seven years after that. The constitution will provide for a reduction in the term of office of the President of the Republic; by five years to reduce the term of office of the President of the Republic, and for the trustee to remain a term of seven years. This member mixes some competences and inserts the Information Committee. How does the Information Committee determine if there are reasons for the resolution? Don't we have any other committees that do that in the National Assembly? How is it that the Committee on Information informs the National Assembly of the request of the Commissioners to stop his duties, as well as of the fulfilment of the conditions for the termination of his duties for years of life? Since when does the Information Committee deal with the status solutions of officials elected by the National Assembly? This is done exclusively by the Administrative Board, if the law is no different, but the law never interfered with any other committee. He could've mixed some other organ into it. It is simply not appropriate for the Information Committee to follow the years of life chosen by the National Assembly. It's not a committee of that kind, it deals with completely different things, it deals with freedom of information, the right to information, but it doesn't determine when they've acquired conditions for retirement or resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7399	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Stevovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 32 and 32. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 33 and 33. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7400	Dear People's MPs, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled more amendments to this law, because we believe the law is conceptually bad and will not be applicable in practice. First of all, this law is against the constitution because the new institutions he introduces, such as the trustee and the deputy trustee, are anti-constitutional. The trustee and the deputy trustee have not been established by the Constitution. Practically, it will actually be a parallel body of government that will be above the president of the National Assembly, above the Prime Minister, above the President of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, the essential part of every law is a legal norm that must be clear, precise, must be consistent with other laws and be applicable. In this particular case, there's none of it. You had to take care of it when you were cheating, if you were cheating, and I think you were cheating. That's what every lawyer, even more experienced, will tell you. As far as my amendment is concerned, I think I can defend this proposal to delete Article 33, for the reason I consider them to be the trustee and deputy trustee of the anti-constitutional category. The Serbian Radical Party will always be against constitutional and illegal solutions. Even the promoter, ladies and gentlemen, did not deign to point out the authority of the deputy trustee. No, and only the very volunteer and the layman says, I will quote this to you: "The trustee has a deputy, elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the trustees" - this is pointless. The trustee has his deputy, the deputy trustee is elected for a period of seven years, and the same person can be elected as the deputy trustee no more than twice. The deputy trustee shall perform the duties of the trustee in the event of his absence, death, expiry of his term of office, discharge, as well as temporary or permanent prevention of the trustee from exercising his jurisdiction. So, what does the deputy trustee do? A man gets paid, doesn't do anything and waits, God forbid a trustee dies or gets sick. So if it wasn't really sad, it would be funny. Mr. Minister, what you've suggested by the lawyers says is an absolute legal failure. This law will not be applied to you in practice, and parts of the law will be applied and abused by that trustee of yours. The people say, simply, this doesn't hold water. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have stood up as a lawyer with decades of experience to point to this and not to pass. So I ask you to adopt this amendment to delete Article 33. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7401	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 33, I have a problem with this - the offerer of the trustees and the termination of the duties of the trustees. Namely, the trustee proposes a Committee on Informing the National Assembly. The trustee's deputy suggests a trustee. He performs his duties as trustees in the event of his absence and due to various other circumstances. So, the National Assembly is not in charge of proposing through one of its committees or through an MPs the deputy of the man whom it has proposed and who will have the same rights and obligations, but is waiting for the man she has proposed and chosen to propose to it her deputy. The deputy trustee is completely in the hands of the trustees, not the National Assembly who chooses him. So, so much in power, that you've predicted in your final position that the procedure for dispensing the trustee's deputies is also being initiated by the trustee's initiative. Now I ask you, when a trustee, or according to the previous position of the Information Committee, initiates a procedure to resolve the deputy trustees? You've given no reason to relieve the deputy trustee. You should have written – the procedure for the resolution is being initiated in a way and for the reasons why the procedure is being initiated for the trustee as well. You just wrote it the way you did, you didn't state the reasons why the procedure to resolve the deputy trustee was in motion. The trustee can initiate a procedure to resolve the deputies for no reason whatsoever. For the trustee, you've given reasons, you've put in here unprofessionally and unconsciously doing business, and for the deputy trustee's will of the trustee or the wish of the National Assembly to change trustees through your board, so that this deputy trustee does not really represent anyone to himself or the trustee. In democratic political parties that know the post of deputy president, the SRS would never have occurred to anyone to propose to the party congress that the president propose his deputy, that the right to propose deputies should belong only to the president, because it is toying with the post. That's what you're doing here. If you leave only the trustee's right to propose, you play with that function, because it depends on the "dad" who brought him, and you play with the National Assembly, which, although he has the right to propose the Constitution, to propose laws, to elect judges and prosecutors, you have taken the right to propose one trustee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7403	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Stevica Dedjanski submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 34 and 34. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, it is said - amendments are not accepted because they change the concept of the law, the Institute of Trustees is abolished and its powers are transferred to the competent ministry. When we see the authority of the trustees referred to in Article 35, we see that the powers are such that in principle a lot of people can do so. The question arises why is there all of this here, I mean the restrictions that are mentioned in Article 30 that the trustee is chosen. Also, the question arises why is it not up to the congregation to decide for itself and choose who can be a trustee and who can be a deputy. Also, as we heard earlier, there is a paradoxical situation that a trustee who has been elected is choosing his own deputy. So that's what we do all the time, it's not the first time, we're making some uncontrollable centers without the control of the Parliament and the government. We have agencies in all possible ministries that serve the same situation. Article 34 says that the trustee has a professional service that helps him to carry out his duties. It also says that the trustee brings an act, for which consent is given by the National Assembly, which regulates the work of his professional service. The trustee decides independently, in accordance with the law, on the admission of a person to a working relationship and so on. There are also great powers here that only one man can see. If the current majority or government does not consider themselves democratic, so they need someone, as explained in the argument, who contributes more to the affirmation of rights, then, of them, they must think that soon, perhaps within a few months, the democratic power of the SRS will come into power and that such a trustee is unnecessary. Turns out he's indulgent and courting, what do I call, some of the children of communist breakthroughs, and the current so-called so-called so-called. Human rights fighters. I'd just tell Mr. Minister and the Assembly if they weren't important, that they were once and thank God they'd never be again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7405	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, which the MP from the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Stevica Dedjanski, has given to Article 34, tries to reduce at least to some extent this will in the decision given to the trustee. In fact, Article 34 prescribed that the trustee has a professional service to assist him in the exercise of his responsibilities. But like any other state authority, the trustee has absolute authority and his trust will rather be like pasture than a state body. The Commissioner brings an act of his own accord, for which the National Assembly gives consent. It's an act that regulates the work of professional services. The National Assembly will not have any opportunity to change any part of that act, but only to give or deny its consent. The trustee also decides independently, in accordance with the law, on the admission of a person to a working relationship in the professional service. It is inadmissible, and even the President of the National Assembly, or the President of the Republic, does not have any other state authority. But, by this law, not only this member, but also the previous members, the trustee is given much more rights than other state bodies that have much greater legitimacy behind them, which are elected in the direct elections. It is also unacceptable that the trustee, elected by the National Assembly, shall be made equal to the President of the Republic directly elected by the citizens, because a third of the MPs, as well as the President of the Republic, are required to launch the government's resolution initiative, as only 20 MPs are required. Also, in this way huge powers and too much stability are given to the deputy trustee. In this way, the deputy commissioner is equally trusted; and his shift requires a third of MPs to launch the initiative, although even the MPs, who make up the National Assembly as the most legislative body and the highest state body in Serbia, cannot propose a deputy trustee. Because of all this, it is necessary that you accept the amendment of Stevica Dedjanski and allow this law to be in line with other laws and constitutions that govern in general the state authorities in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7407	Anyone else want a word? Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Articles 34, 2nd and 4th, provide for the rights of trustees that other authorities do not have. It is inconceivable, in paragraph 2, that the trustee's right to decide independently on the admission of a person into a working relationship in the professional service. Find me another official who decides on the person's admission to the professional service on his own. I don't know what that means or what professional service is. I understand that the President of the Republic has a cabinet, that the Prime Minister has a cabinet, that the President of the National Assembly has a cabinet and that he decides which persons to head the cabinet, you have these new names of pi-ar. But I have to ask you, what's the trustee's professional service? Is that a dactylograph? He is, and he's an expert in the work he's doing. To what level does the trustee choose a trustee, and from what level must there be someone who will take care of it? And another thing, the government of the Republic of Serbia has dared to, contrary to the Constitution, force the National Assembly to pass a law that does not respect the general constitutional provision that the lawmaker must provide financial resources for law enforcement. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been so bold that it writes in the light of the law that the financial resources are not provided and that it forces us to discuss here. I don't know who had such an impact on the professional service of the president of the National Assembly and on the president of the National Assembly himself, because Article 34(4) states that funds for the work of the trustees are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the proposer says that he has not provided funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the trustee; and the National Assembly President is putting this law into practice, as if he has fulfilled all the conditions laid down in Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Now you want us from the opposition to believe that you will honor what you write. You disrespect us so much that you write us that you don't respect us. You will not be able to demean me, nor the MPs of the SRS, nor will we ever ask of you, when we are in power, to feel ashamed and ashamed. I only ask MPs of the parliamentary majority – will you vote for the law that the lawmaker, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, says has not provided the funds for its implementation?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7409	Is there anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Škrbić submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 35 and 35. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I apologize for the insolence of my voice, but I hope you will understand me in this address and presentation. Article 35 and the title above Article 35 make it clear about trustees' competences. In front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment that the member and the title above the member are deleted, for the simple reason that I have come to know this law, and with other amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, that there is simply much to do with the authority and other matters of the trustees. We all know that the SRS is generally against the accumulation of these institutions, in terms of, say, these institutions, as well as various agencies that have been voted by the assembly majority so far. This amendment concerns the jurisdiction of the trustee. When I say this, I immediately think of those agencies and it seems to me that you didn't have to rewrite everything, or as our people say -- to break it, from some other laws. It seems to me that this law is prescribed by the law of Slovenia or there are a lot of touching points, perhaps I am mistaken, but I'm surprised by something else. The government's explanation says the amendment is not accepted because the bill's concept changes. It's true, the concept is changing, and we want it to change, that this change actually improves the quality of this law. We want the concept to change, to remove the trustee institution with its powers, and that these powers have some other bodies that already exist and don't have to form a new one. From the experience of us from the SRS, I am sure that soon everyone would be wondering, everyone here and the entire public of Serbia, as well as why this newly elected trustee for information that I am sure, as Mr Nikolic said earlier, would belong to some political group, selectively apply both justice and law and, of course, selectively provide this information of public importance. When I say selectively, I mean the privileges of some who are good with the government, and I immediately think of those famous NGOs who can get information, abuse them, finally and cash them well, etc. My intention has indeed been sincere, such as sincere and discussion of all MPs of the SRS Group, and in principle by giving these amendments. To repeat once again, the SRS is to pass this law, but it needs to be arranged and adapted to the time in which we live. With these amendments, we have tried, but as far as I can see, there is no good will to adopt any amendments to the SRS. It's impossible that none of them are good. Maybe it's something else. I think we should think differently, we should all pass one of these laws together, because it's new and we're applying it for the first time. We of the SRS have a good will to cooperate with you and pass this law. That's why we've submitted this number of amendments, quality amendments. That means we've been working on this law for a long time, reading it carefully, but there's no good will to change the SRS. I'm saying, there's good things in this law, but there's a lot of illogicality. Let's take our time and do something together that will be good for this people and this country. So, gentlemen, when you vote, remember our amendments and our stories, mine and all the predecessors and these couples that will come later. In fact, adopt amendments to the SRS, because the law will certainly be better.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7411	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Because I'm not in a situation, because I'm the only one at the table, to give a replica, just to correct one of the wrong interpretations. The National Assembly, all MPs will decide, as the bill predicts, that the budget to be adopted by the end of 2004 will provide for the 2005 funding because it is not in the current one. This is Head IV - Financial means for law enforcement. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Momir Markovic submitted an amendment to Article 36, which he proposed to the Assembly to replace the word "religious" with the word "ministration". In Article 36, the proposal states: "In three months from the end of the fiscal year, the trustee submits to the National Assembly an annual report on actions taken by the authorities in the application of this law, as well as on its actions and expenditures." The question is, what happens if the trustee doesn't file a report? There is no sanction unless it is determined and normised what will happen if it does not act according to the dissent of this norm. Paragraph 2 states: "According to the report referred to in Article 1, the trustee submits to the National Assembly and other reports when assessing that it is necessary." You see, this is a rare legal act in which there is no sanctions for those for whom rights are provided, not liability and obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I would like to return to the provisions of Article 32 of this bill, where paragraph 4, says: "The Commissioner cannot call for responsibility for the opinion he has delivered or the proposal he has made in the exercise of his jurisdiction, and in the procedure initiated for the criminal act committed in the exercise of his jurisdiction he cannot be detained without the approval of the National Assembly." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if this mistrust I see today gets elected, sells information, takes money and starts running away, will someone at the border be able to deprive him of his freedom and bring him to a competent investigative judge? According to this proposal - never. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that the greater immunity of this trustee from the MP is seen by the fact that the notices of the immunity of the MPs provide that the MP cannot be detained without the approval of the National Assembly, unless he is found in the conduct of a criminal offence for which the sentence of prison has been prescribed for more than five years. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you accept such a caucus proposal, you will have a situation where you have not provided rights to the MPs, nor to the President of the Parliament, nor to the Prime Minister, nor to the members of the Government, nor to those who have judicial functions that enjoy immunity. It's about a man, a trustee, who I see will be a man without sanctions and a man who will be a free shooter, who will trade information and no one can do anything to him. That is why the SRS tells the MPs that this is a legal failure and that in practice it will not be able to live. It takes a law like this, that's for sure. The Serbian Radical Party advocates the adoption of an appropriate law, but that the law be normised so as to provide rights, as well as the obligations of all public information holders, to be available to all competent people who are interested, not the seeker, but in this law should be "the applicant of the request". He doesn't need to be a search engine, he doesn't investigate anything, he needs to be the applicant for specific information. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted more amendments in order to improve the text of the law, so that it can be easier to apply with its disposition and to live. So, the next election, of course, follows the new government, follows the new assembly, follows a new request, will require a revision of this law, the proposal will be someone else, and this will not be able to live in any way. (President: Time. I'm sorry, I'll finish. We won for the next session, which is due to begin on Tuesday, 22 draft laws and points that amaze the professional public. It can't be believed that the government is so smart, so ready, that it has great experts, and in the previous government we saw that the proposals of a number of laws were submitted to us by interns, so in practice it proved that they couldn't be applied. The number of these laws is inflation of regulations. Laws are passed and prepared for years, not overnight. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law can find its application only if you accept the amendments of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7413	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 37 and 37. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here from the debate so far, and in principle and in particular, we have found, when it comes to the status of the Commissioner, that it is not defined or regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it means that it is an unconstitutional category; that the state body, and it cannot be as an individual, can only represent a state body; it has more power than the National Assembly, and by law and the Constitution, the only one who has the right to partially interfere in the work of the National Assembly is the Constitutional Court when it appreciates the constitutionality of laws, resolutions, declarations and other acts adopted by the Assembly. In doing so, I mean the proper constitutional court, not the political constitutional court that we have here. I have submitted an amendment to Article 37. What the member defines on the subject of the trustee, so he says in point 1: "The Commissioner, without delay, in Serbian and in languages that are, in accordance with the law, defined as languages in the official use of the issue and updated the manual with practical instructions for effective exercise of the rights governed by this law. In particular, the manual referred to in Article 1 of this Article must specify the content and scope of the right to access information of public importance, as well as the way in which these rights can be exercised. The obligation of the trustee is to introduce the public through the press, electronic media, the Internet, public stands and other ways to the content of the manual of Article 1. "Now the question is how much will this manual cost the citizens of Serbia, or taxpayers. In the government's explanation, as a proposing, financial resources are said: "The implementation of this law requires financial resources for the work of the trustee for information of public importance, the work of his service and the implementation of his powers and legal obligations, such as publication of manuals, regulations, etc. In order to achieve these functions, five million dinars should be allocated to the Republic of Serbia's budget by the end of 2004. "So the citizens of Serbia should pay for your experiments by the end of this year of five million. And, to make things worse, nowhere in the Budget Law, and not even in budget rebalancing is meant to be provided for. Where are you going to get five million dinar funds from now on? Will you, like when it comes to rebalancing, provide it by reducing the funds allocated to agriculture, or perhaps doing so to the army's burden, as you did in the budget rebalance. And the question arises: will the trustee have time to spend those five million dinars, because it is quite certain that you plan to spend that amount only in the last few months of this year? So I am alive interested in how much the real cost will be for the whole year, if only in a few days in December it will be spent from the Republic of Serbia's budget of five million dinars. I believe that the citizens of Serbia, as taxpayers, have no time or money to pay for your experiments and that with this manner started by the previous parliamentary majority, and continues in this government, and in this assembly majority, it should be interrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7415	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) According to Article 81(1), I am taking a break up to 14.55 hours. [[After break - 15.40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the search in detail of the 9th item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on free access to information of public importance. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 120 MPs are present. In order to determine the quorum for starting work, I ask Members to insert their cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that using the electronic system has confirmed that we have a quorum to work with. The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government is gone, and there is no Minister. I don't think Mr. Simonovic is taking over as a member of the government and it would be perfectly normal for him to be a resolute minister in the first place and hear what the MPs say. So far, we've had a deputy or assistant minister, if there wasn't a minister. Now this is off. I think we've talked a lot about the trustee, about what's wrong with this law, starting with him choosing his own associates, hiring himself, proposing to the deputy and everything that the SRS opposes. I hope the president of the SRS parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic made it clear that the SRS's position is clear and I think it is logical after this that the resolution minister comes here, withdraws the law, corrects the law. Only if this place isn't intended for one person who wants to be in the BIA, so this will be a compensation for her post at the BIA.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7418	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragan Colic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 43 and 43. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Dragan Colic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 43. The proposal for a law on free access to information of public importance which requires that, in the title above Article 43, "the trustee" be replaced by the word "minister", and in Article 43, point 1 of the word "religious" is replaced by the word "minister". In article 43 and the title above the members instead of "reports to the trustee" should stand "the ministry", as the trustee's own institution is not rational and not necessary. Also, in position 1, the authorised person of the state authority submits an annual report, instead of the trustee, to the competent ministry. It is indicative that the text of this law does not guarantee that the law will find its application in practice, as Serbian Radical Party MPs have already found. All tasks of the trustee can be carried out by the ministry. The choice of creditors increases the bureaucratic apparatus, the deputy trustee and professional services are elected, all costing citizens of Serbia who still need the trustee and then solved all their problems. Do these laws require financial resources? Yes, for the work of the trustee for information of public importance, for the work of his deputy, for the work of his services, and here are new expenditures from the budget. The dissatisfaction of the citizens of Serbia is growing, more and more difficult to live, strikes, protests everywhere, and we in the National Assembly are choosing the trustee and thus investing in the EU. It's modern to have a trustee because others do. Why don't we have one? This bill can be corrected by amendments to the SRS parliamentary group. If that does not happen, it is unlikely that qualitative changes will occur in this sphere. Why do you propose laws that are not in practice applicable? There is no point in doing a wasteful job, thereby increasing budget cuts and making unnecessary expenditures. Unfortunately, it's a characteristic of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7420	Thank you, Mr. Cholic. Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Committee on Culture and Information proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7421	The DS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 44, which states that journalists and public ballots have the right to compensation for damages if the inability to publish certain information has caused damage in the work of their media. We don't think it's necessary to distinguish between those who ask for information. We believe that everyone has the right to compensation for damages, even though it does not appear in this law. Under the Law on Liabilities, any person who suffers damage has the right to claim damages, but we also believe that there is no reason not to specify in this law that the Authority is responsible for the damage caused by the violation of the provisions of this law. It will therefore determine and define the extent of the damages caused by the compensation procedure, and it is natural that the minor damage will be judged by a natural person who has failed to exercise a certain right because of the inability, illegal, to obtain certain information and that the damage suffered by the public record and the means of information, which is also likely to be greater. That is why I do not think it is necessary for the legislator to distinguish between any person who, under this law, is allowed to seek and receive information from the competent state authorities provided for in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7422	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7423	I have reported on this amendment to warn the majority MPs that it is necessary to inform the legislator that this provision of Article 44, entitled - Compensation of damages, cannot exist in this form, because in this form no court will grant compensation for damages. That's what I need to draw your attention to and also say that this amendment, which has been submitted, is not fixing this article. The component of this Article 44 shall be the provision of Articles 5 and 7. I must point out that even today, the courts have problems applying the provisions of Articles 199 and 200. The law on bond relations, especially after the adoption of the Public Information Act. This is the piece that Zarko Korać defended here and instead of specific provisions with precise instructions on how the court can interpret that provision we have come in fact to an even greater confusion, where there is no protection of a person, there is no possibility of a compensation of damage if the rights of a person are threatened. I'm just making a parallel with this provision, because this provision allows for the possibility of damage unless the means of information has received information in good time or some protectionism has appeared, so one note has been received, and the other one has not. In this case you can see the senselessness of this concept of law. I guess the government and other state authorities are communicating with the public, when it comes to information of general interest, by issuing statements, holding press conferences and at these conferences, show that they are fundamentally open to issues that would complement the basic information that some authorities are going to the public with. Such a compensation provision will only create a situation that the courts will not apply this provision, because they cannot find out from this formulation what the authentic will of the legislator, what it protects, what good, what right. That's why I'm saying the amendment can't fix this bad text. There's no improvisation in damages, there's no possibility of something being improvised. It can be material, it can be immaterial. How can he prove the damage he suffered? How can he prove the circulation? How can he prove the linkage of the circulation to that information that would allegedly be relevant to the fact that it was published by any chance? In particular, I warn you of a provision that if any means of public information is to publish false information, then the authority, under this bill, is obliged to provide accurate information. Put all this in the context of the damage compensation provision and you will see that we have a law that cannot be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7424	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted an amendment to Chapter VII and Article 45. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7425	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not particularly explain the amendment to Article 45 because I must say that the explanation is good enough and that the amendment itself is sufficiently understandable to those who want to understand it and that they are following the concept of other amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, but I would like to sum up a little bit of what we have told you earlier. Unfortunately, a lot has been said without a representative of the government. We, the government's representative, and the government's opinion, did not exist until the debate on the draft law was held by the Assembly committees, neither by the Legislative Committee, nor by the Information Committee. There's no minister who's still got the strength to make it from an extended flight, so tanned, into the congregation benches. I think he is the first and only minister to whom absolutely nothing could force him to speak to the MPs for once and to come out and defend at least once a position that should be his, because he's been appointed here as the legislator's representative. A number of the essential and conceptual objections that we of the SRS have brought to this law, from the formation of a new state body, or trustee, through those that are certainly most important, which is that the right to appeal is not guaranteed if the authority, in accordance with Article 4 of this proposal, simply states in the light of an individual act that the public does not have a legitimate interest in knowing certain information. The same thing is repeated in Article 9 which regulates the exclusion and restriction of free access to information of public importance. The objections to these two members are due to the lack of the right to appeal precisely in cases where it is public interest to learn some of the most information. Instead of being the cornerstone of this law, it is precisely the lack of these rules, what this law will mark, which is why this law will be inapplicable. I'm sure, and you've said it yourself during the debate, that this is a law that will change, I guess you're well aware that this law is not good, that the countries from which you've prescribed this law are also often changing the law on access to information. Your only argument was that we would enter Europe faster with this law, but here, since this law is on the agenda, there is no more transfer of the assembly session. We also heard in the course of debate and appeal to journalists that when they talk about this law, they do not point out its shortcomings, but that, in order to make citizens use their rights more, they say some good. It is precisely the essence of this law that journalists convey these events the way they do, and if you wanted journalists to praise you, because it is obviously not enough that you gave them in article 17 that they would be released from postal costs when they asked for some information, then, gentlemen, you should have made a good law, but not just for journalists, but for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7426	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7427	This article also shows that it is not good to prescribe something from some law or to act on the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers and so on. We still have an uncleared question, we do not know what all Micunovic has accepted and which five additional conditions he accepted when we were admitted to the Council of Europe last year, but not to spread the topic further. This is how the surveillance clause set up in Article 45 can't stand. According to Article 1, this law establishes a trustee as an independent state body, so he himself is in the exercise of his jurisdiction. He prescribes what he should do, how he chooses, what his powers are. And then article 45 says that the supervision of the ministry is responsible for information affairs. It must be specified whether it applies to administrative or inspection surveillance. If it concerns the type of inspection control, then this law lacks provisions on measures and actions that may be taken by the inspector who does so. If it's about administrative surveillance, then it's the Department of Justice doing it through its work. There's an even bigger problem, so the ministry that's responsible for information affairs, and that's now about culture and the media, I don't know exactly what it's called, is actually the authority of the government that needs to apply this law. Namely, if a journalist or citizen assesses that some information of importance to the public is in the ministry, he can address the ministry, that the ministry does not act in accordance with this law, that it does not respect those deadlines of 15 or 40 days, that, by appeal and appeal, it comes to the trustee who can make a decision and order the ministry to provide that information, and now the ministry is reporting as a supervisory body controlling the trustee. It doesn't make sense here. The one who controls is in one specific position, in one situation that very precise provisions of the law are restrictively interpreted and controlled by all those who enforce this law. There you have given a definition of what is considered to be the authorities, but this is how conflict occurs. So, the trustee controls the ministry that's in charge of information affairs in one part, and then the ministry comes in tomorrow and says, "Now we're going to go through surveillance to show you that you can't do that." I repeat, it is not enough just to rewrite some text, it is not enough just to satisfy the need of a non-governmental organisation, which in the making of this defiled hands, as these experts do, and I have noted, it is Vodnelic, Rakic and Vodnelic again, as well as another group of experts who have received the exclusive right to say what European standards are and how they should be applied. Please, we're the same way you're trying to bring it today, and here most of us adopted, the Public Information Act, the Radio Diffusion Act and the Lustration Act. Not to mention, there are a dozen laws that can't be applied to us. It's just that this is made for aliens. How will a clerk apply this law in Pirot or in Crno Trava, has anyone thought about it, because who will assess what it is of public importance, where there is a particularly justified public interest, where there is no possibility of abuse of personal data being exported? Namely, when someone came up with the idea of passing this law, he probably had the fourth, fifth, and perhaps the sixth generation of human rights and freedoms, but forgot about the provisions of our Constitution, because there is the first generation of freedom and human rights, he forgot about the situation that is in Serbia and the possibilities that can be realized. There's something written here, everything's nice, it's all by some standards, but what's worth when it's inadmissible and contradictory. This provision, as you have written before, Articles 5, 7 and 11, falls back from the legal system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7428	The word has the first National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS to Article 48 of the Law should again be taken into consideration by Minister Kadadinovic today, given that the unclear explanation of the government is why the amendment is being rejected. He's related to the explanation of the bill. Since neither is there a promoter, therefore, Mr Dragan Kadadinović, and there is not a vice-proposer, Mr Markovic, who has been acting as an authorised promoter throughout the day and during the discussions on amendments, then I will treat you with MPs.... (President: I'm sorry to interrupt, are you talking about the next amendment? )......................................................................................................... to explain what is really and what is the essence of what you need to understand in order to see the senselessness of this law, the establishment of such a trustee, with such powers, his choice in this way and through the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is binding on everyone, and most of all on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and on the Proposer. Article 68. The constitution says: "The means of achieving the Constitution of guaranteed rights of citizens and the law of general interest in the areas of health care, social protection, martial law and disability, social care for children and other forms of social security, education, science, culture, physical culture, as well as in other areas established by law are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. "Article 48 provides for penalties for the non-response of the report within a specified period and in the manner set out in Article 43. We believe that these fines of 5,000 to 50,000 are small, because of the fact that someone tends to cover up information and one of the state authorities to obstruct the search engine in a process that he is trying to resolve. On the other hand, why did I read you article 68? The Constitution? Because Mr. Markovic also tried to defend the promoter, and I said that in this capacity he represented himself as a vice-proposer; under Article 132. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly are required to specify what resources are needed, which would be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, in order to implement a law. Not only are these not the funds designed for the trustee and all the bodies that he's going to form, but you can imagine the contradiction, that from the day of the entry into force of this law... And that's not so, because the day of entry into force of this law is November 10th, and then it takes another month for the authorities to choose by law, and then it stays - what? It's only 10 days left for someone to spend, the promoter gave it to us to explain the necessary financial resources, five million dinars. And they also say that these funds are not normally budgeted for 2004; and how they should be when you barely watered most of them to vote for such Dinkic's rebalancing a few days ago. And then you don't know how much money it takes for 2005 to implement the law. Today, as this debate on amendments is coming to an end, we have pointed out that the law is essentially pointless. We were distracted by Serbian radicals that yesterday on the first news show at eight o'clock in the morning as a promoter of this law, Minister Koadinovic did not show up, which we could understand on national television, but a certain Vladimir Vednelic, a worn out professor of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, thought that he was a member of the DSS, who convinced the public, or tried to do so, visiting in the morning diary, that some amendments were good and high, and some did not. Who's even asking Vodanelic what amendments are good and who aren't. That is why we believe, since the promoter is not here, that you as serious people (if so, I assume that all those elected as MPs must be) in the voting day should decide what you will do with the amendments of the SRS, which are meaningful, which are very correctly written in order to correct this law. Of all the things that Dragan Kadadinović has suggested to us on behalf of the Government, the title is only the name of the law that is proposed to us, and everything else must be subject to change in the way we have suggested it, and it is on your conscience that you decide and I call on you to do so in the day, that is, the moment and the hour to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7430	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Just one explanation, we're talking about Article 45, but Miss Natasa Jovanovic is a little early, so she was talking about an amendment that was just coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know that a great lawyer said, "What a coat of arms is born, time doesn't correct", Valtazar Bogisic, born in 1888. In Article 45, the legislator proposes to oversee the implementation of this law by the Ministry of Information Affairs. This provision excludes the previous provision. National MP Zoran Krasic pointed out this illogicality, and I will remind you, you have a law before you, in Article 32, paragraph 2 stands – in the exercise of his authority the trustee will not seek, nor receive orders and instructions from the state authorities and other persons. Is there any legal logic here? There isn't. I don't mean to disrespect the intention, but those who have prepared this text obviously are not up to many here, fellow MPs, when they make such a vicious proposal whose provisions in dissociate each other. That is why it is not clear how the Ministry of Information will be able to supervise the trustee, who said further, in his work is independent. Therefore, this bill cannot be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7432	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 48th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 48 provides for penalties, and previous members of 46 and 47 are subject to violations. Despite all your stories about entering Europe, about how much you want to help citizens get information, after all the stories about the transparent government, it all comes down to how when you prescribe penalties and how many penalties are prescribed, then we can safely tell how much you really care about passing a good law based on which citizens will be able to get the information they want. What's basic is not prescribed any crime. Regardless of the importance of the information, regardless of the possible abuses of all state authorities, although in some other laws, even less important than this, there are prescribed crimes, this time you haven't decided to do so. Why? Because the rights provided for by this law are rights that you do not really want to give to citizens and you do not want to protect citizens in procedures that will be conducted before the state authorities, but rather, you give these rights only formally. You have abolished their right to appeal, and now you're giving these ridiculous penalties that you've prescribed clearly to the citizens that you don't want this regulation ever to be applied. A fine of 5,000 dinars won't make anyone give information that can be of national importance. On the other hand, if the organ wants to give it to a foreign state, it will be able to do so without a problem. It would be good to remember at this point and that the fines you prescribed in some tax laws for those who are late paying their tax obligations, even though it's neatly reported, but for example for objective reasons they can't pay it within a million dinars. So, when you want to skin the citizens from their backs, then the fines can be a million, two dinars, but when citizens need to use one of their rights, then the punishment you prescribe for a responsible person in a state body is 5,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7434	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. MP Vojislav Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7435	The Serbian Radical Party has in principle and essentially challenged the institution of trustees and trustees as foreseen by the bill. Article 49(2) regulates the way trustees are elected, where the trustee is scheduled to be elected within 45 days of the date of entry into force of this law. I would refer to some legal and technical shortcomings contained by this member of the law, and in this regard other members of the law, because of the essence of the trustees and the deputy creditors, there have already been a lot of words, so I would not repeat my predecessors and at all the concept advocated by the Serbian Radical Party. The choice of creditors requires three conditions, of which two conditions are positive and one is a negative condition. The trustee is required to be elected by a person with recognised reputation and expertise in the field of protection and promotion of human rights and who meets the conditions for working in state bodies. These are the positive conditions required of that person and one negative condition, which is that the trustee cannot be a person who performs the function or is employed by another State body or political party. There is one inaccuracy, because in this assembly, not all parties are. We have one political organization that is neither party nor party, but is run under the code. More specifically, it was a political organisation, not a political party. As for the deputy trustees, only one condition is needed for selecting a deputy trustee, which is that the person fulfils the conditions for working in the state authorities. These two conditions required for the selection of trustees are not required for the deputy. Why does it matter? It is important that the deputy trustee performs the duties of the trustee in the event of his absence, death, expiry of his term of office, discharge, as well as temporary or permanent prevention of the trustee from carrying out his or her duties. A basic question arises which is then the duties of the deputy trustee. Under this bill, it turns out that the deputy trustee is waiting for something to happen to the trustee so that he can assume his duty. He absolutely does not have any rights and powers while the trustee performs his duty. Article 49(2) only provides for a deadline for the selection of creditors. It's 45 days from the entry into force of this law. No trustee deputy will be selected within what time limit is specified. It is not provided within what time period the trustee should propose to the Assembly Committee, or the Assembly, to elect a trustee, since only the trustee has the exclusive right to propose his deputy, not the Assembly. These are, among other things, in addition to these essential reasons presented by the SRS, in a legal-technical sense major shortcomings which will result in the practical application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7436	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to the 10th item of the agenda: - THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC COMMITTEE ON THE SURVEILLANCE OF THE SCHOOL OF SCIENCE AND ARTS You have received a list of candidates for the selection of a member of the Republic Committee to resolve the conflict of interest submitted by SANA. I remind you, according to Article 156, paragraph 3 and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7437	These words of mine are a little late, but I still have to say something about this. In fact, we made a big mistake last time when in law we predicted that the Academy of Science was proposing members of the Committee to resolve a conflict of interest. I'll tell you that two weeks ago, I had the opportunity to attend a gathering that wasn't political, but a little more fun, where there were a large number of members of the Academy of Sciences, who told me that it made them feel humiliated, that many departments of the Academy didn't want to pass people on to that committee. They wrote and verbally asked Mr. Heidin, president of the Academy of Sciences, to address the Assembly and ask for it to be abolished. It's not a job for academics, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with whether a conflict of interest has been done somewhere. Last time we experienced that several members were proposed and, let's say, the famous historian Vasilija Krestic was not chosen. Why are we putting these respectable people in a position to vote on them at all, on such an unnecessary matter? We now have the candidates Mr. Konstantinovic and Mrs. Danica Petrovic. The lady is probably a very respectable and probably a nice lady. I know Konstantinović personally. It is a man of European culture and European reputation, teaching a long parallel literature at a university in Austria. We should vote on such a man, whether to be a member of this committee and, possibly, not choose him, as Mr. Krestic did last time. We've made a big mistake, and this needs to be fixed somehow.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7438	Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After having conducted a single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the election of members of the Republic Committee to resolve a conflict of interest. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE FOR CONSTRUCTION OF THE ACTIVITIES AND ENVIRONMENTS IN THE PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF BELOCATED 19. September 2004. One notification: in accordance with Article 89(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that according to the 11th item of the agenda of the second session of the Second Regular Session, the mandated representative of the group of promoters will be MP Meho Omerovic. Another notification: in accordance with Article 38. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the DSS parliamentary group on the 11th item of the agenda of the second session of the Second Regular Session will represent MP Zoran Nikolic. You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. I remind you, according to Article 156, paragraph 3 and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does National MP Meho Omerovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very end of this truly long and exhausting session, we're going to talk about something that seems to me to be of great importance first of all because it's on the agenda of the highest legislative body. First of all, we are going to talk about something that this assembly adopted, which is the Law on Local Elections, and we are going to talk about how some individuals and bodies who are supposed to enforce the law dared to break that same law. In this House sits 250 elected representatives of Serbian citizens, representatives chosen by the will of the people. We're all talking, you're the very witnesses of the fact that we often refer to this will of the people. That is why, protecting the same will of citizens and deeming it a violation of the Law on Local Elections, SDP MPs submitted a proposal to set up a polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to elections for the Belgrade City Assembly, which took place on 19 September 2004. The legality and legitimacy of the election are issues whose importance, I am convinced, that you will all agree with me, absolutely exceeds the interests of one political party, regardless of what ideology it belonged to, exceeds even the question of mandates, whether they are parliamentary or parliamentary, anyway. The elemental assumption of the construction and functioning of a democratic society, we have repeated this a thousand times, are legal and fair elections. I guess it's important to everyone, and above all, to this home, to the most legislative body. Facts, circumstances and all that happened in Belgrade on September 19th, according to SDP MPs, suggest the law has been violated. That's why I don't think the Serbian Parliament should keep its eyes closed. What was going on that day, in general, after the polls closed in the City Election Commission rooms? First of all, it is prohibited for representatives, or members of the City Election Commission in front of the SDP and representatives, to participate in the census. By his will, Mr. Goran Kljajevic banned the entry of SDP representatives into the room where they were gathered both records and complete voting material from all elections. Election material from the disputed polling post 91 Ugrinovci was delivered in the small morning, at 3.35 in the morning, and at 10 o'clock in the morning, Mr Kljajevic announced at the press conference that there were irregularities, however, in two polling stations, but that they cannot significantly influence the final result and that SDP lacks 55 votes. Imagine – in two polling stations, where more than 3,700 voters are enrolled, for Mr Kljajevic 55 votes cannot affect the final result. Of course, after the complaint that we have filed under the law, the City Election Commission has sat down and rejected this objection, and I will remind you, dear friends, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, our objection was only about one very simple thing, but really crucial things when it comes to breaking the law. At polling post number 91, Ugrinovci had no other page with voters' signatures to confirm that the record was credible, and that is why we objected. And what's going on? The City Election Commission, in its session, discussed our objection, formed a task force to come to the sights of polling material from the 91st polling post. The task force was formed by the City Election Commission. The working group cited as the only flaw, I quote, "there is no other side of the voter committee's work record, which would include the signatures of members of the electoral committee in accordance with Article 16(3). The law on local elections." So Mr. Kljajevic himself and the City Election Commission themselves believe in the findings of their own working group that found there was no other side. Now we're coming up with something that really matters. On the basis of the minutes, the City Election Commission said, I quote: "It was determined that after the vote was held at the polling post 91 Zemun Deputy Chairman of the Election Committee Zorkic Pavle handed over election material to the City Election Commission members at 3.35 p.m., noting that the component and note written by members of the City Election Commission Lutovac Vladan and Jovic Goran, who found that the minutes were received without the other side, as well as that the items 13, 14, 15 and 16 were not filled." These items – 13, 14, 15 and 16 are items that talk about the number of ballots received, the number of valid and the number of invalid ballots, and I don't need to remind you of that. So the key items are not filled in at all in that record. What is particularly interesting – Mr. Zorkic Pavle is not the vice president of the election board at all. Mr. Zorkic is just a member of the election board. Mr. Zorkic, in his statement, says, quote: "Day 19. 9. acting as a member of the election board", therefore, he claims under material and criminal responsibility that he was a member, which is seen from the record, rather than a deputy member as claimed by the City Election Commission, "at polling post number 91 I was present from opening until the results were determined. There were no problems during the vote. I, after the vote number, didn't sign the record because no one asked me to. The vote went close to 40%. That's half of it for the SRS. The vast majority of radicals are the first. We put all the ballots in the corresponding envelopes on which we entered the number of votes received, and we handed that material over to representatives of the Municipal Election Commission. "So, Mr Zorkic argues that he handed over the records and materials to representatives of the Municipal Election Commission, not as the City Election Commission and Kljajevic say - to the city. And we're asking who they actually handed over the election material to. Let's move on, using our legal right to gain insight into the election material we had to wait 36 hours, because Mr. Kljajevic let us wait so long to give us official permission to enter into the possession of the electoral material. Of course, that license arrived 36 hours before the legal deadline. In this context, we have made an insight into the election material. Now, my dear friends and fellow Members, I will explain to you what it was like to use legal law on behalf of the representative of the SDP in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, in the presence of members of the City Election Commission and workers of the professional service. We used this 20 right from Thursday 23rd from 20.30 am to 02am, with a break until 11 pm, so the next day, on Friday, so from 11 pm until midnight we also had the opportunity to have an insight into the election material. On the first day, we had the opportunity to face every polling station in physical contact from all 1,109 polling stations. That wasn't controversial. We physically watched the logs, leafed them, interpreted them in our own way, and had the right, which allowed the law, with a graphite pen in a special blocker, to record any irregularities in the paper. That's what we did until two o'clock in the morning. So we had physical material available. The next morning at 11 a.m., we begin to examine the election material according to the method of random sampling. In view of the preceding nights of those 1,109 minutes, we have seen cardinal irregularities in 73 polling stations. Of course we insisted on taking bags of electoral material from the 73 polling stations. What's going on? As the previous nights, we open election material, representatives of the SDP, with the help of the expert service and members of the City Election Commission, we physically open envelopes, watch ballots, watch checklists, so all that is an integral part of the election material. Around 12 hours, however, the phone rings for the president of the City Election Commission, the famous Goran Kljajevic. Of course, his cell phone's ringing. Mr. Kljajevic, in the presence of more than 80 officials, at that time announces the person on the other side (I would very much like to know through the work of the survey committee on which the person is concerned) and we find out that he, behold, must not allow us to continue to watch the election material. He interrupts the link and orders the employees of the professional service and members of the City Election Commission and their deputies to distance us from the tables with the electoral material. After that, the representatives of the SDP were just some kind of silent observers, such as some draw-out of lottery balls; representatives of the City Election Commission and members of the professional service showed us a ballot by ballot and in this way we had this famous insight, according to Goran Kljajevic, in the election material. Due to the short time and the insight we have achieved in over 70 polling stations, it was enough to see and realize that there were such irregularities and violations of the law in those polling stations that they deserved nothing but a repeat of the election. A special story, a special detail, is about bringing in members of the election board. So Goran Kljajevic and members of the City Election Commission were in the car between 20pm and 1pm at night to bring in and bring in members of the election committees to sign some statements in their presence. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are a large number of minutes without any single signature of members of the election board, 25 of them in all. For example, there are only 15 of them in the Palilu municipality. There are falsified signatures of members of the election board, missing checklists in the election material that we controlled at six polling stations of 73. There's a cover-up for valid lists. There are situations where the number of valid ballots is higher than the number of those who went to the polls at nine polling stations. Some have also been asked for judicial protection and a proposal has been submitted to the Republic Public Prosecutor requiring the raising of legal requirements. What is important at this point, to remind both the MPs and the general public, is that the republican state prosecutor has filed a request to the Supreme Court for the protection of legality against the ruling of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, which rejects our objection that this decision be amended. By putting aside this legal and procedural action, I would really not want to enter into what is the job of the Supreme Court, I just want, starting with real knowledge of the situation, that we in this National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, are able to create appropriate measures for the promotion and security of democratic processes, for which we are most responsible. At the very end, there is something that raises a particular suspicion of regularity. I'm going to ask you all a few important questions. How is it possible in Serbia that the same law is applied differently in different cities and municipalities? How can elections in the municipality of Krupanj and not in Belgrade be annulled in Serbia on the basis of identical violations of the Law on Local Elections? How is it possible for one competent court to respect the objection of a party due to a lack of a checklist or an unsigned record, and the other court, when the SDP so requests, does not respect it? For all reason, I think that the polling committee, which I call for you to vote on in the voting day, will determine the facts and circumstances under which elections were held for the Belgrade City Assembly and answer the question whether there have been violations of the law. I am more than convinced that there have been violations of the law and that it will be determined by the Serbian Parliament's survey board. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7440	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure to learn from DOS representatives how you conduct the elections. I immediately accept that a large part of what Mr. Omerovic stated is true, and I assume that through the work of the polling board, additionally what was done that day in the elections will be determined. I just want to tell you that a representative of the Serbian Radical Party in that polling committee will insist on everything that has been going on since the elections in Serbia today, to put one of Serbia in line for the states that have power over the elections, whose elections do not serve to present Europe as a country that holds elections, so it is like in Algeria, when the one you don't like wins, you cancel the elections and say -- there will never be an election here again. Someone can have an election, someone can't. What's going on? You, gentlemen, who exercise power, avoid forming congregations of municipalities and cities and the assembly of the AP Vojvodina, as if it were your front, your property, as if you decide when to be plowed, when to sow, when to reap, and how to reap. How many days has it been since the last elected councilman or MP was given the assurance that he was elected? More than 20 days. More than half of the municipalities' congregations have not been established. There is neither city nor province in Vojvodina. The Belgrade City Assembly has not been established. Municipal congregations in Belgrade have not been established. What's the reason? Are the elections legitimate? Did they bring in legally elected representatives of the people? What are you waiting for? You prefer to remain in power? On what basis do you exercise power from choice to this day? What gives you the right to exercise authority and you who are no longer in power, who have failed in no way, by blackmail or threat, by bribery, or by bribery to create for yourself a majority? This is where you seek the height of democracy. This is where you rebel when an MP uses a harsh word, and where you exercise authority, you'd be there most of the time if you were in the saddle, and the people wouldn't. What kind of a country where a loser doesn't show up on TV, hand over his keys and say, "Here you go, you win." We'll get organized, we'll prepare, we'll beat you next time. Think carefully about what you are doing in Serbia. It's not funny. You're almost all in on it. You may not be asked by your bosses, but they do it on your behalf. That night, if you were stealing the election, everyone was stealing a little bit, maybe no one asked you, but the theft was done in yours. Someone from your party thinks you should be in power in some municipality, even though the people don't think so, but someone from your party thinks so. By the way, I don't see any reason why you're making it so difficult to establish local authorities elected in the elections, and I don't know how you're spending your budget now, who are still some kind of authority in cities and municipalities, and you lost the election a month ago. Do you think some responsibility will catch up with you because of everything you're doing? I warn you, the SRS is not from parties that will steal, which will force anything in Serbia to do, but we belong to a group of democratic parties who, when they lose their power, when they win, demand that the government surrender to it. I warn you of the situation in Zemun, the sanctuary of the SRS... Just laugh. If I had lost such a disaster in Kragujevac, I wouldn't have a word to say, not to throw it in the O.R. To exercise power in Serbia for four years and lose power in Kragujevac. But preventing the constitution of the Zemun municipality has put us in a position to make a big rally in front of the municipality tomorrow. I'm informing the public, we'll be establishing a local government in the Zemun municipality tomorrow. We will use the most democratic method introduced in Serbia on 6 October, when elected representatives of the Belgrade City Assembly entered the town hall, held a constitutive session and elected bodies. Europe has said - but faith, Serbia, it is democracy. Tomorrow you'll have a chance to see, because everyone learns while they're alive, you taught us well, tomorrow you'll see how Europe is going to say -- allal religion, radicals, you resorted to more democratic methods, and that's why it curves DS. Let her know we'll remember that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7442	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or representatives, want a word? Miloljub Albianic, head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7443	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, elections for local authorities were held under the Law on Local Self-Government, which in itself is missing. As you can see, there are now some difficulties in forming local authorities, but this will be resolved by the adoption of a crown law, which is the new Constitution of Serbia. After the adoption of a new constitution, of course, that law will change, and then we will sort that area out in a valid way. As far as cases like this are concerned, of course G17 plus advocates that the truth is fully established and that it is handled in accordance with true facts and results. What we've done is we've been able to prove and show in the New Sad that the truth can be established, the facts can be proved and now the G17 plus is in the New Sad Assembly. Of course, we will support the formation of a survey board and give our member accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7444	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7445	The Democratic Party of Serbia does not have its own, in a political sense, sanctuary, but what is sacred to us is the fact that when elections are organised and elections are conducted it must be done in accordance with the law. If there is any doubt that the elections have not been conducted in accordance with the law and if we have arguments, some facts and objections raised by one political party, regardless of what political party did it, it is our task, and I think there is no dispute in this assembly about it, that we all together in the form of a polling committee try to get to the facts and see if the elections for the Belgrade City Assembly have been held in accordance with the law. I don't think we should be politicizing for this pay phone and opening up some other topics. Simply, the polling committee serves to establish in one objective way the actual situation and, if there is a breach of legality, we say, as the highest representatives of the legislative authority, that this happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7446	It was the authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia, MP Nikolic. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the Democratic Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia. I give my word to the MP, Milisav Petronivic, and let the MP Slobodan Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances in the elections for the Belgrade City Assembly held on 19 September 2004. The Socialist Party of Serbia will support the board's education in a desire to know the truth, that the public learns the truth today about the elections. I believe that this will become a practice in Serbia, in the Serbian Parliament, which performs a control function, that many other examples of such committees are being educated and that the truth about all other events can already be learned in Serbia. The Socialist Party of Serbia has more reason to ask for it, because it has been accused on many occasions, and it has always been those who accused it of running away from finding the truth, because they knew that the truth that will be found in fact will leave the SPS out of it. The Socialist Party of Serbia has not exercised power in the local elections in Belgrade at the moment and has not been running it for eight years. She was not in a position to appoint election bodies, election commissions, election committees, etc. So she's not involved in any of the stores mentioned here. She participated only as a participant in the election procedure through her representatives on the election board and, of course, with her lists. When I say that the SPS is not involved, we care to let it know that the Democratic Party is in Belgrade; I am not prepared to accuse the electoral commission of irregularities and violations of the law until it is established, and that is the principle that the SPS has always stood for. We care about establishing the truth about local elections and why this truth that has been established will give much better light to the events of 1996. I mean, there are those who were actors here back then, and they are now. For these reasons, we think it's a good idea to form this committee of inquiry. What do we think is wrong? It is not good that only part of the election procedure was taken from Sunday 19 September to 20.00 hours to determine the outcome of the election. I don't think it's a good thing and I'm completely sharing the view of the predecessors that our representative on the survey board will demand that everything be considered, determine the facts of the entire election process. Is the election procedure respected? I would like to remind you that the chairman of the General Committee of the SPS, Ivica Dacic, has filed a criminal report for this. Is the election will respected on the day of the vote? After the vote, does he try to reverse the electoral will or is there a lack of respect for the electoral will? In that sense, we will ask that all these questions be brought to light. I also want to make it clear that in our consideration and in determining all the facts, it is important that we get to the point of whether the electoral will of the citizens has come to an end and whether it is respected, in three ways. First, whether the election campaign was under way, so before the election day, there was influence or pressure on voters to form an electoral will. I'll give you one example. What about the agencies and analysts to form public opinion, I deliberately used that word, the day before the election silences give their results where one party gives 18, and the other one, of course, with the aim of one part of the electoral body to encourage and the other to hesitate. It's an influence on the electoral will of the voters. What happens on election day, or when determining the result of the election? Do the results identified reflect the election will of the citizens or, if there were irregularities, and I think this is yet to be determined, the result of a law that has remained unsettled until the end? How many mistakes were made and who made them, by name and last name, and how many influenced the choice, did they affect the election will of the citizens? Third, the question of the electoral will of citizens, which was expressed on September 19th. We are witnessing that after that, there have been examples that can support it. I'll only use two. As an example of an attempt to end the electoral will, I will set an example for the citizens, the White Palanca. Of course, the SPS candidate won again at the re-election, but I cite as an example of an attempt to reverse the electoral will of citizens. I'm not sure this is going to end this way in Novi Sad or they're going to push themselves to one point until the power ratio changes in the city. I don't know if it's an accident, but there's a Democratic Party in those municipalities again. Finally, bringing into question the electoral will of citizens by unconstitutional assembly of municipalities, with various reasons, and we have some original, fictional these days. I will take the example of only two municipalities, not to speak of Belgrade, because in Belgrade right now the only authority is Mr Bogdanovic, but the month and the change of days, the other one is gone, but I will take an example of Zemun and Surcin. In Surcin, the newly established municipality that the DS had established while it was in power in the City Assembly, and it did not even allow rooms to sit, where to be, I suppose, thinking that a hundred years would be in power, they came into a situation to simply obstruct the constitution of the congregation. We're not the bearers of that authority. I'm talking about respecting the electoral will of the citizens. Whether someone likes it or not, that's another question. What's going on now? The town's statutes have been made clear that Zemun's obligation to do all the work until the constitution of the Surcin municipality (there were Democrats in power again); it does not seem, because Zemuns say, or the president of the municipality, says he is awaiting Belgrade's order, and Belgrade says Zemun should do so. In any case, the congregation of the municipality was not established. Of course, deadlines run, and all that, but we heard the latest, original reason. The president of the municipality of Zemun Vladan Janicjevic (who is no longer) says – only when they bring (those who are) the signed coalition agreements to me will I call the assembly. If it wasn't sad, it would be funny. Anyway, I'm talking about who's stopping the assembly from being built up. It's the same story in the Zemun municipality. These are all issues that should be the subject of the polling committee's talks with the aim of, finally, establishing facts and proposing measures for the Serbian Parliament not to do so in the future. I'm sorry, the SPS didn't participate in any way in any of the organs or in any of the shops so that we could be tied to all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7448	The word has the People's MP Slobodan Vukovic, and let MP Zoran Alimpic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to you for purely procedural matters; there seems to be no agreement and clear awareness of what it is doing and what a committee of inquiry can do. The election committee is not a final instance that decides on the outcome of the election and that is the first thing. The second thing, in this procedure, as far as I saw from the material submitted by the promoter, was that everything that can be done by means of legal means was exhausted. So it's a final verdict. The Committee of Auditors does not have the right to deal with investigations and other judicial proceedings. Therefore, we cannot get anything in particular except to receive a lesson and instruction for the future, of course, if there were any irregularities, and I think that everyone in this congregation should advocate that it be established. However, there is another obstacle. Here, the speakers spoke about the Zemun case and some other municipalities, and we have a proposal here to limit the polling committee to Belgrade. If we want the poll committee in part of the Serbian Parliament with the authority of the Serbian Parliament, and we need to establish some facts and some conditions for the future, to propose some measures, then it should be educated and that it has a task, because here it speaks in the Rules of Procedure of what task the survey committee gets, for the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. In that case, it would be acceptable. As proposed and limited to Belgrade, it is only possible, in my deep confidence, that we reject it, to propose to the Belgrade City Assembly that it organises a polling committee and it has the right to organise a survey board, it can organise. Because Belgrade is nothing special and nothing magnificent in Serbia. If there are injuries in other parts of Serbia, we need everyone here together at the Serbian Parliament level to determine, and if it concerns Belgrade, to be determined by the Belgrade Assembly's polling committee. So it's the procedural thing. I think we should make a statement about this and take care of it, so we don't set up any survey committees that we're not even in charge of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7450	The word is from MP Zoran Alimpic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is proposed that we set up a committee of inquiry. However, as we have already heard, the election process in Belgrade is over. The Social Democratic Party had complaints and objections to one or two polling stations of a thousand, complained, the City Election Commission rejected the appeal, then complained to the ordinary court, and the competent court also rejected the appeal and no more complaints, the election process ended. So, on this side, the polling board cannot change the election results in Belgrade anymore, nor the election will of the citizens. Of course, Belgrade is the capital, but it is nothing special; except in Belgrade, those who lost the elections complained in many other cities and municipalities. And there were some complaints rejected, some accepted, the elections repeated, there were again complaints, but why should the poll committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia deal with only one municipality, or one city, why only Belgrade? If a survey committee is to be formed, then let it investigate all complaints from all parties in cities and municipalities in local elections, as the National Assembly is primarily the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think it's right that one party that has an important position in the ruling coalition of votes that are necessary for it to raise its appeal to the level of the National Assembly, because the National Assembly is not the place to decide on the electoral disputes of this kind. Otherwise, as for the Zemun municipality and the convocation of congregations in other municipalities, above all in Belgrade, because that was the case, I don't think there is any need for any of the Hajduk congregations or intrusions; it is the duty of the president of the parliament from the previous one to convene the assembly and, of course, that all presidents will do so within the legal time limits. Certainly the presidents of the previous assembly, and I am one of them, want to consult with the presidents of the committee groups to hear that a proper coalition was formed, because we have a proportional system and no party alone can form power. It is necessary to form the majority and then summon the congregation and do so. In Zemun, it's not so sure that's the case. So the Radicals and SPS coalition didn't get enough votes in the election, there aren't enough councilmen to have a majority. It is true, the assembly will be convened, but the issue is that the SRS seems to have managed to win or buy, as it is said, and some committee members of a newly formed smaller party, which apparently cannot control their own committees. It is okay for these people to change their political opinion now and become members of the SRS, but it is not good to bear the mandate they have received as candidates of each other's party. It is necessary and normal for them to return their mandate, because citizens did not vote for a radical party, and they can be members of the Serbian Radical Party as much as they want. So, of course, according to the law, the congregation in Zemun and other municipalities will be called together. I urge the SRS not to take any hasty steps, you'll probably get most of them, you've got enough councilmen, and there's nothing controversial about it, except that the citizens here are being deceived. They voted for a whole other party, and votes were unfortunately transferred to those for whom the citizens did not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7452	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7453	The previous discussion is proof that in every man there is always one small dictator, it's just a question of environments that will allow him to show it or not. A little more lies and a little more political qualifications to comment here. It's easy to say – elections are over, mandates are divided, everything is finally. Why didn't you say that on October 5th? On October 5th, the government said -- the elections were over, the mandates were divided, the Constitutional Court ruled, everyone ruled, and you knew you were cheated. Here, with the right, one political party argues that the elections were not regular, and I cannot now have the council elected in irregular elections to decide whether the elections were regular or not. It's absurd. I must warn you of something I warned you about when we passed the law. You know that elections are always irregular in the second round, because in the second round, one candidate... For example, the DS candidate in Belgrade now had six members in each polling post, and his opponent had only one. The law says - no one should, no candidate should have a majority in the polling post. You keep your mouth shut. If there were this many irregularities in the first round, where we all had members of the election boards, what happens in the second, where one is opposed to the candidate of power? As far as Zemuna's concerned, it won't be a hiducan assembly, I hope it wasn't DOS radio hiduci when he took over. This will be the DOS's way of taking over the assembly. If you're not Democrats, say it, then it's a non-democratic way. If you are Democrats, admit to us that what you are doing can be done by us, because we are learning from you what democracy is. We don't know what democracy is. The three representatives of the Serbian Force Movement have not moved to the SRS, they want to vote for the president of the municipality and for the majority to make up the SRS. And I am not the President of the Constitutional Court, I have not made a decision that the term of office belongs to an MP and a councilman. That decision was made by the Constitutional Court. These mandates don't belong to political parties, you know that very well. They belong to whoever has a name and a last name and has been elected a councilman. What is the factor of the former president of the municipality that he discusses when the assembly majority will be created to call for a constitutional session? He's not the president of the Republic that needs to share the mandate, so he's interested in most of it. The president of the Republic is not interested in the coalition either, but if he respects the constitution, he is obliged to ask the strongest political party in the Assembly, the largest, most numerous parliamentary group of trusts, not to wait for coalitions, if anyone has agreed. Of course, if 126 MPs are gathered, they bring evidence, it's a final act for him. In the assembly of the municipality, the former president of the municipality says that coalitions are formed, most of them are created, so I will establish the assembly. It's your understanding of democracy. And where have you been since October 5th? Nowhere. All it took was for the government to change to realize that you were the same as the ones you beat.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7454	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7455	A few things. First of all, here were the procedural questions, that the Assembly had completed the work, i.e. that the electoral commission has verified the mandates, that the court has ruled and that everything is fine. We do not, of course, want to make investigations and this committee of inquiry should not carry out judicial investigations, but must determine the truth about what happened in the city of Belgrade. We don't mind establishing the real truth about what happened in Serbia. For example, what happened in Gage's Han, when, thanks to the election commission, they were more specifically told to the court that you chose, the judges, the cancelled elections, and it went again, again, to win and fail. We don't mind that you were able to re-organize the election in Zitist with your court, so you failed again. We don't mind a dozen other municipalities where you've done it, but it's good to establish a survey board, to see what they're doing, and not to tell you now that it's done and, well, the mandates are passed on to others. Why not discuss whose mandates you did not discuss in the previous meeting when you took five mandates from the SPS and Banet Ivkovic. Why didn't you think to say it at the time – give people, we have resignations, we have the Administrative Board, here are resignations signed, everything's fine, let's take away their mandates and return the SPS to five mandates. No, it was good for you back then. It can't be like that. We don't want to change the board of inquiry's judgment. We just want the truth to be established and, what Mr. Petronijevic said here, to show that the same actors were in 1996 when you attacked the SPS for stealing the election. Same actors, you'll see, same people. And then these same people were working, and then they did it together with you, and then you chose them as election committees, and now you chose them in election committees and other similar places. We want the survey committee to establish that Belgrade was the biggest violation of electoral silence, the biggest violation of the Law on Local Elections. Tadic opens his office Friday as DS president. Don't say -- he's the president of the Republic, as president of the Republic two days before he held a rally in Novi Sad, as the president of the DS opens a national office. It's the biggest violation of electoral silence. All this must be determined by the committee of inquiry for our sake here, in order to agree that this criminal law on local self-government, which you adopted, is now in your head, we change as soon as possible, to adopt a law that belongs to the citizens of Serbia. They're facts, not that someone wants to violate your authority. If there have been a lot of violations of the Law on Local Elections, the Assembly and the Government have the right to disband the City Assembly, and to discuss in three months again, so let's see where we are, to get to the truth, I think it's useful for everyone, not for changing results.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7456	You'll have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7457	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we all thought this point would take a very short time. We thought it was perfectly normal for people's representatives, those chosen by the will of the citizens, not to want the will of the citizens to be broken in any way. That is why I was pleased, to be honest, when I heard from this speaker in a previous debate from all representatives of the parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament that they supported the formation of one of these polling committees, and I just thought, as you do, that the chairman would close this session and go to his offices, when a colleague, a respected Belgrade lawyer, Mr. Vukkovic, called. Mr. Vukkovic, I'm not a lawyer, but you should know that this is not a final verdict. You used the term that all the procedural and legal actions were exhausted, and this was repeated by Mr. Alimpic. The case has not finally been ruled, for the simple reason that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office filed a request to the Supreme Court for the protection of legality against the ruling of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade on 11 October. The prosecutor found it appropriate to break the law and the prosecutor suggested that the verdict be changed, by respecting the Social Democratic Party's appeal and annulling the election in polling post 91 in Ugrinovci, i.e. in Zemun. You suggest that the City Assembly, not the Serbian Parliament, form some survey committee that will investigate, examine the facts that led to this. Mr. Alimpic, the election process has not been completed. The court responsible, which you are referring to, Mr. Alimpic, is the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. Do you know, my dear friends, what court is this? It is the court that in just 12 hours, it finds that there are no elements in the opposition to the SDP and rejects our motion for annulment, and for a year and a half can't find Neda Arneric's card. It is the same first municipal court to be called by party representatives. I am truly sorry that we will not achieve full unity in the Serbian Parliament on such a formal and procedural matter – the formation of the Committee of Auditors, so we will determine whether what we representatives of the SDP claim is true or not. Running away from looking for the truth, I think it's a very wrong way. And it's especially the wrong way for you to bring us back to whoever did all this, that he's now forming some sort of special polling committee, that he himself determines whether he's breaking the law himself. Of course we know what the solution will be. That is why this assembly, as the most legislative body, is and how it is owned to form such a committee of inquiry. I will finish by mentioning polling stations in the municipality of Krupanj, in which the municipal court's ruling annulled the elections, at the request of the Democratic Party, due to irregularities in the polling stations: "Bela Crkva", "Zavlaka 2", "Ravnaja", "Tolisavac", "Toman", "Cvetula", "Cerova 2" and "Krupanj 2", not to list some other municipalities in Serbia. So let the survey board do its part of the job. Whether the survey board will determine that there has been a violation of the law or not, I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7458	National MP Slobodan Vukkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7459	Let me get this straight. The matter is exhausted by all regular legal means. This is an emergency remedy. We have a way of waiting for the court's ruling on a request for protection of legality. Why should we adopt a proposal to adopt a committee of inquiry, until this is resolved, when you rely so much on that remedy. I suggest that we postpone our decision until the competent court is resolved on a proposal from the public prosecutor, which is an emergency remedy and a request for the protection of legality. Then there's no point in establishing a committee of inquiry. That's the first thing. Secondly, it is our view that we do not flee from any determination of truth. We're just saying -- let's spread it to all of Serbia, wherever someone's not satisfied, to determine if there's been any violations of the law. If we favour Belgrade, Kragujevac or Novi Sad, then we lose only a general picture in Serbia, and we should have a general picture in Serbia. Otherwise, the truth about the election results is one interest from every party sitting in this assembly, I think so too. Don't impute that it's not in our best interest. It's in our interest. I'm just saying -- if you think this is one tool that will help, let's put it off until the court has settled at the request of the public prosecutor and let's discuss it for the whole territory of Serbia, let's see what's going on. Then we can have the right picture and take the right steps in some of the next elections that will be of interest to all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7460	The floor has a representative of the promoter, MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7461	Mr. Vukkovic, as there are regular legal means, there are, of course, extraordinary legal means. There you are absolutely right. That is the last legal remedy the SDP has used. Don't tell me there's no such thing as regular and extraordinary parliamentary elections. Therefore, as long as there is a remedy, whatever it is called, regularly or exceptionally, we will use it rightly, as we have suggested through this request for the establishment of a survey board. I'm glad you want to form some more committees. It is your right, according to the Rules of Procedure, as a MP, as well as my fellow Members Ljiljana Nestorovic, to sit down and write a request for the establishment of a survey board for some other municipalities, as you said from this speaker. I won't deny you that right. With great pleasure, I may take part in the work and the survey committee that you are proposing, but it is currently on the agenda of the proposal, which we have tabled, to set up a survey committee to determine the facts and circumstances that have led to irregularities in the Belgrade elections on September 19th, for the election of committees in the Belgrade City Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7462	Here you are, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as head of the SPS parliamentary group, allow me to say a few words on this subject, although I thought it was enough for the president of the city organisation SPS, Milisav Petronijevic, to say our position. After all these discussions, however, I think there is something to be said, in order not to hide the essence of this requirement that Mr Omerovic spoke of. Namely, no one here disputes the right and need to form polling committees or to establish the truth about many other irregularities that have been throughout Serbia. The irregularities were from Novi Sad, Belgrade, across these municipalities. I don't know if you know it, but there was a third round in many municipalities in Serbia, which is why you called Gonzales in 1996. The polling committee does not say that it is called Gonzales, it does not say that some special law will be passed to declare elections in Belgrade, but there have been irregularities. Of course, mostly where it was in power, the DS has been annulled, with a desire to see a change in political forces' schedules in the re-election process. That's true. That was the case in Zitiste, elections in one polling post in Romania's village were annulled, so as not to beat the SPS candidate. So it was in the White Palace, and so it was in many other municipalities. Fortunately for us, and unfortunately for them, our candidate won for mayor and for that so-called. The third round. Just so you know, you've been looking for third circles, too. I can even say, what Mr. Petronijevic and Mr. Angelkovic said, many of these actors mentioned in this story about the elections in Belgrade, were actors, truth on different sides, in the 1996 elections. As far as other matters are concerned, I wouldn't enter the DS rating of which parties belong to so-called. The democratic bloc, which belongs to a non-democratic one. The DS obviously sees Bogoljub Karic as a democratic bloc, as they are sorry for the three council members who are likely to vote in favour of the SRS proposal, which will back the SPS. I would not go into what DS and late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic were saying and what they did to Bogoljub Karic, how they broke into the "Mobtel" to take his "Mobtel". You today obviously consider Bogoljub Karic a greater democracy than the socialists in Serbia. That's your problem. As far as other matters are concerned, it is very nice to listen to the Democrats talk about parliamentary mandates. That's what the SPS was talking about for three years at a time when you were in power. You, ladies and gentlemen, have been in power for two years thanks to the stolen mandates of the SPS. You stole seven mandates from the SPS, you stole seven mandates from the people of Serbia who voted for the SPS in 2000. And not only with the help of this, but you have taken the mandates of other parties: New Serbia, Foreigners of Serbian Unity, Democratic Party of Serbia, Vuksanovic's party, if I remember correctly, etc. The Serbian Parliament's administrative board, led by Democrats Bosko Ristic, has found that everything is in accordance with the law, and the Constitutional Court has found that the mandates belong to MPs. We agree that, when it comes to proportional elections, mandates should belong to political parties. We've been saying this for three years, but you've remembered that in the case of Zemun, you're practicing your political opinion on who the mandates belong to. You have established a practice that mandates belong to the board. That's why you ruled by bribing MPs in this House. After all, it is no wonder that Bane Ivkovic entered the party of Bogoljub Karic, all of which you consider democratic forces in Serbia, and, of course, you are surprised why the three MPs will not listen to the position of Bogoljub Karic about whether you will be in a coalition with him at Belgrade level. Be in a coalition with whoever you want, but as far as you and the DS ladies and gentlemen are concerned, you have brought into Serbia an example of taking office, voting from Bodrum, Thessaloniki and all other places around the world, and you are now talking about who the mandates belong to. That's why I called in my word, because I find it embarrassing what you're saying after what you did, because those MPs had signed resignations that you didn't respect on your Administrative Board. Because you needed seven votes to maintain power, as you chose former governor of the NBS Kori Udovici, and because of that, of course, maybe DS thinks it went well in these elections. Gather around and see how many mayors you have in Serbia. See how many municipalities you are in power in Serbia and, of course, look at the result of Serbian President Boris Tadic's call for Serbs from Kosovo to participate in the elections. Therefore, the SPS will support the establishment of this polling committee. We, of course, also have objections to the proposals for the formation of this survey board, and they know it, because my name was forged on their list, which supports Nebojja Covic's candidacy. I've filed a criminal report against the team, so they're not excluded from this committee's work either. All in all, we support the formation of this polling committee and believe that all irregularities that were not only in Belgrade, but throughout Serbia should be investigated. How's that gonna end? Will it end with some final verdict? This is not a courtroom and, of course, it's hard to speak in legal categories, but it's politically important. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has the right to say there have been irregularities in Serbia when it comes to local elections in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7464	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here's a word from MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7465	I'm referring to article 100. Rules of Procedure, since a large number of insults were made to the DS. It's just astounding when someone who represents a picture and an opportunity of a regime that has managed this country for ten years, who has been stealing ballots from Kosovo and Metohija in trucks, who has been a spokesman for the counterfeiting regime, which has been distorting the electoral will of Serbian citizens for more than ten years, begins to pour "crocodil tears" over irregularities established or unconfirmed, which are happening in election processes. It's only possible when there's an elemental conscience missing or when any memory of the evil weather that's behind us dies. Thank God, neither can that time come back anymore, nor as a secondary supporter of the person, who resembled the pest regime, can more in Serbian politics in other ways in serious state issues. That's why, if it wasn't tragic, it would be comical.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7466	Thank you. Replica, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7467	First, Mr Petrovic is not an authorised representative of the DS for this agenda point. There is no Bojan Pajtic here, who is the head of the parliamentary club, has no Goran Svilanovic, who is a deputy, has no authorised representative and, therefore, Mr. Chairman, has come forward for the Rules of Procedure, and has no right to receive his word in this way. But since he has already received the word, of course, our relationship with the DS has always been clear, we believe it is the party that has done the greatest damage to Serbia. We believe that this party that introduced the kidnapping of the mandate has introduced a vote from Thessaloniki and Bodrum. We believe it is a party whose state summit was linked to the top of crime in Serbia, which eventually killed their boss. We believe it is a party for which sanctions have been imposed in Serbia because they have smuggled sugar. We believe, after all, that it is a party that has eaten itself in three years. But that's their problem. I'm just sorry that friends and friends from the Socialist International don't realize that they don't have an SPS problem. To them, the problem is that he is a greater friend to them and the closer and more dear Bogoljub Karic, who became rich in Milosevic's time than those who were partying with Milosevic. Maybe because we don't have enough money to pay for that favor or because we don't need that affection. But, ladies and gentlemen, you took the mandates, you paid people, you blackmailed them, you forced them into prison, you filed hundreds of criminal charges, and you went through so badly in the election. You didn't even know how to steal where you wanted it. As far as that goes, that's why all you're saying today is certainly just a regret about those times that have passed. The DSS and DS, fortunately Serbia, are no longer parties that have any political future in Serbia. As far as we're concerned, feel free to call the election and you'll see that there are no supporters, which is, above all, the DSS. In these elections you would not be in power in any of the municipalities in Serbia, because with you, ladies and gentlemen, no one will. You saw that in the second round of local mayoral elections. Everywhere your candidate and candidate for any other party, almost everywhere he won, so whoever he is just not being a member of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7468	Thank you. I'm sorry, on what basis (receives to MP Dusan Petrovic, who asks for a word). You've caused the replica, and you have no right to a replica. (Dusan Petrovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Just tell me which member. (Dusan Petrovic: Article 100) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7469	Mr. Dacic, the fact that you have lost every touch with real life, it can be seen from this, from a few things you said, but it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing that you are opening up here the question of the masculine murder of Zoran Djindjic, one of the greatest martyrs in the history of this people. He entered history by throwing you out of power, and you and your boss, who is sitting in The Hague. The most harmful regime in Serbia's 200-year modern history has thrown Zoran Djindjic out of power and you can say whatever you want, how much shame yours allows. It's a matter of your conscience, but with certainty you've crossed, Mr. Dacic. As for the election results, the DS received the most votes, the DS has the highest council members, the DS has the most mayors, the DS is the strongest party in Serbia. Call the election, and we'll count.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7470	Thank you. Mr. Dacic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7471	Ladies and gentlemen, as long as Mr. Petrovic appears, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, to speak up, with the desire to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to the Rules of Procedure. Let me remind you of the Rules of Procedure that you brought here. Mr Petrovic, if I recall correctly, threw us out of the power of Vojislav Kostunica, not Zoran Djindjic. If I remember correctly, I didn't say anything that would hurt any memory or memory of a man who's no longer alive. But you, Mr. Petrovic, because you love Mr. Djindjic so much, have cleaned up almost all of his closest associates from the party, and within your party the "Zoran Djindjic" faction is formed, not within the SPS. As for that, it is true that I said about Zoran Djindjic and your authority the following - the top of your government was linked to crime. None of us even knew those who were accused of killing Zoran Djindjic, and your people, who were at the top of the government, hung out with them, doing business, making political plans. After all, Mr Petrovic, and those people who killed Zoran Djindjic participated in your October 5th revolution and in the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic at the Mir villa. As far as we're concerned, we have nothing to do with it. We regret killing Djindjic, but he was killed by those he worked with. As far as we're concerned, the SPS is not afraid of choice. If you think you should go to the election, cancel your support for this government, you're also here as supporters and strikers, as someone here says. The SPS publicly supports this government, and you support it secretly. Sometimes you, once upon a time, and the SRS, but it doesn't matter. As for that, the SPS never publicly or secretly held any different views. We support this government, Vojislav Kostunica. As far as you're concerned... (President: Mr. Dacic, you've exceeded your time. )......................................................................................................... Take care of the DS. DS is not a form of democracy. The DS is a character of the arrest of 11,000 people at the time of the Sabela action, media censorship, links to crime, corruption, sanctions of the international community towards Serbia. When you talk about it, don't mix it up. Why are you sensitive when you're looking for a survey committee to be formed here? It was a theme here, and now it's a theme. We support the formation of a survey committee. If you have a similar example, you're looking for the formation of a survey board, we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-27-0.u7472	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the motionary want a final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session in 2004, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint 2nd November 2004, starting at 10.00 a.m. as a day for voting on all points of the agenda of this session, except for the first and second points, on which the National Assembly has already held a vote. Thank you very much.
