ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Eighth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 144 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 98 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. I'm sorry, I didn't see you right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2140	Mr. President, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, a member of 81, who writes that the meetings of the Assembly begin at 10.00 hours in certain days, so please explain to us whether the session starts at 10.00, at 10:30, at 10:45, or when you arrive at the session. There is no problem and no harm to the Rules of Procedure as far as our parliamentary group is concerned, but then we know that the assembly session starts when the president enters the hall, because you put MPs in an unequal position, I doubt that some MPs know when you will enter the Assembly, so that they may come. I ask that the committee in charge be made aware of this objection.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2141	Thank you. As you know, MPs, the president of the Assembly has already been in the O.R., the deputy president of the Assembly is in the O.R. all the time. The session begins at the time when so many MPs are gathered as necessary for work, quite clearly, but I convey your suggestion. So I ask all the MPs, especially those who are in constant work, to respect the Rules of Procedure and to appear when the session is scheduled. Thank you. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Sava Urosevic, Goran Jaksic, Ipsanović Istvan, Goran Knezevic, Goran Paunović, Dragor Hiber, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić and Zarko Koraić (before noon). We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE LAW ON THE INVESTMENTS OF THE ISSUES ON THE FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS, USE, COUNTRY AND ACTIVITIES OF GOODS AND ACCUSES (the joint principle search on the 4, 5 and 6th part of the agenda) I ask if any of the presidents, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Svetislav Krstic, and let Milan Stanimirović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2142	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to say a few things in front of the SPS regarding this package of laws that we are discussing today. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't present. I'm guessing he was prevented by important obligations, and maybe he didn't like yesterday's session. All in all, I hope there's one of his associates who can pass on what's said. If you know each other in the morning, then we're not exactly expected to have some good time in the next period. It is very unpopular that one of the first laws, one of the first measures taken by the new government, should be an increase in taxes. In fact, excise duties are a special type of tax, which represents a state monopoly and a way for the state to fill its cash register, or, as it is said, to fill the gaps and deficits in the budget. First of all, I have to say, when I mentioned the budget, if we, this assembly, had adopted the budget, I would say, in strange circumstances. In fact, the budget was adopted without a final account and without a budget inspection report. We are probably one of the few countries that adopts the budget without these necessary previous reports, the final account and the budget inspection reports. There are several tens of thousands of companies in this country, companies, larger or smaller, and they are all obliged to file a final bill. If they don't, they'll pay the fine, and this is the same thing the Treasury will make them file the final bill. At the same time, the state, i.e. the previous government, did not submit a final invoice. Therefore, by adopting the budget, we have in some way nominated possible non-domestic behaviours, unintended use of budget funds and so on. As far as the budget itself is concerned, although Mr. Minister argued that the budget is of developmental character, it is clear to those who are amateurs in the area of the economy that the budget that affects one third of the gross national product cannot be a developmental character. So much before these laws, where taxes are increasing, where taxes are increasing, is not only an unpopular measure, but a wrong move. In fact, if you pay a little more attention, the budgeting is mostly spent here. The budget should be filled with taxes from production. So the budget should be in function of production. We have a situation where this excise law is taxed by consumers, or taxed by citizens, whose purchasing power is very low anyway. The increase in excise duty on coffee is a direct blow to the pockets of the largest circle of citizens. It's even interesting this way how the excise, when I mentioned coffee, accounts. The more quality coffee, the more excise. We usually drink third and fourth categories coffee. Now, because better quality coffee will be even more expensive, we can automatically expect to drink and have worse quality coffee market. At the same time, one of the arguments that causes excises to be introduced is at least here, there is an explanation, it is to suppress the gray economy. Whenever there is an increase in the prices of the most widely used products, such as coffee, cigarettes, drinks and so on, it's always a stimulant for the growth of the gray economy. I'd like to see how this measure will affect the reduction of the gray economy. One of the arguments is, and is listed here, harmonisation with EU standards, with standards of the World Trade Organisation and so on. If we forgive this word of harmonisation, which we have amended through the amendment of the Ministry Act and replaced it with the Serbian word harmonisation, we can conclude that this harmonisation will cost us dearly. First of all, if that's the way and if that's the policy we need to reach European standards, then I'm afraid we're not on the right track. If we compare ourselves to the countries of our environment, let's say Bulgaria and Romania, that we don't go to Germany, Denmark, etc., to look at Bulgaria and Romania, we'll see that their customs rates are significantly higher than ours. The average customs rate in Serbia is around 7.4%. Even the Washington Consensus that applied to the policy of the last government, and I think these, too, are predicting a gradual liberalisation of imports. Therefore, by reducing the excise duties of certain domestic products, it absolutely does not mean that this will have a favourable impact on the production of these products, such as juices, because the customs rates for imports of juices and other products are so low that this excise duty will not be able to do anything about it. In addition, another observation is interesting, which is to increase excise duties on import juices; those who import them claim that excise duties have not been paid so far, except, I think, for iced tea, and I don't believe that it is used in any larger quantity, so I don't understand it, and someone would have to explain, what it means to increase excise duties on a product they haven't even paid for. Whether it's a lapus or it's some other thing, I wouldn't really comment on it. I would also like to recommend to the Ministry of Finance and the Government that from the very beginning it is committed to putting the budget into function of production, to stimulate domestic production, both through budget financing and through extra-tariff, customs and all other measures necessary. If we start domestic production, then, of course, we're going to be very easy to fill in the budget and budget deficits and all that's the goal. I want to say that the economic situation in which the country of Serbia is situated is catastrophic. Yes, we can state there a lot of arguments and one of those that is certainly relevant is the following: that industrial and agricultural production was less than, say, in 2000 or that Serbia's debt from 2000 to 2003 was increased by two billion dollars. If we take that two billion dollars is written off to the Paris Club, that means four billion dollars, if we add to that donation, if we add that citizens have sold more currency than they bought, it all says that the economic situation is very bad, and I don't think it's going to be able to fix it with these measures. The previous government said it was the best Serbian government in history, which, of course, is not a very modest statement, but, in any case, one piece of information tells us how much our economy in the world has been recognised. Namely, there is one foundation, so-called The Heritage Foundation, which ranks every year a list of economic freedoms for countries in the world. Of the 155 countries, Serbia is not on the list at all. It is a sufficient response to a statement by the previous government that the former government is the best government in Serbia's history. For comparison, Albania is in the 80th place of the list, Macedonia is in the 73rd place of the list, and that only shows that we are in a very bad situation. It would therefore be necessary to take more care of what laws are passed and how budgets are used. It would also be good for us MPs to work more efficiently, given that my impression that we used the whole day yesterday on inter-party shootings and the promotion of presidential candidates, which, by the way, was not successful for Mr Nikolic, since he called 100,000 hunters animal killers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2143	Replica, Mr. Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2144	You can freely use all means to fight me, because long ago all resources in the fight against the SRS are allowed, but under current law anyone who is really a hunter, anyone who is a member of a hunting association held by the owners, anyone who has up to two rifles was free from paying taxes on holding and using goods. To me, it's not a hunter who has more than two rifles. For me, it's a rich man, even an animal killer. If two guns aren't enough for you to go hunting, then don't even go hunting. You can turn the story around, I'm surprised that you haven't already interviewed some hunters from your parties who are against my discussion, but think about it a little bit, a gun worth a thousand euros and another one worth a thousand euros, isn't it enough to let him have two of those guns and not pay any taxes, but now you tell him -- buy ten more of those fabulously expensive rifles, and we're going to free you of taxes on carrying those guns. It's not right. Yes, there are 100,000 hunters, and now you're gonna turn them against us, but it doesn't matter. When there's a story about bird growing, I'll say again what I think is true, and then you say that everyone who grows birds against me, turn everything on your water as far as possible. I don't want to hide my position that whoever goes hunting with more than two guns is a killer of animals.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2145	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic. Here you go, and let the People's MP, Vladan Vukicevic, be prepared. Just a moment, please. Arsen Kuryački approaches the pay phone and asks for a word. ) I beg your pardon, this is the National Assembly, which consists of MPs, not representatives of hunters; it may only be a replica if a group of individuals or MPs is mentioned offensively, and hunters are not a group of MPs. Thank you. Be kind, please, one more time. Mr. Stanimirovic, please. I beg the MPs, I remind you once again, as yesterday, I will always stick to the Rules of Procedure, and you have no reason to try to abuse the situation of each other's conflicts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2146	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, we have a point on the agenda – a united debate on the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Tax on Financial transaction, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on which we from the Democratic Party have no fundamental objections; also a cosmetic proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and by the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Act on Accises, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where we have objections and on the basis of these remarks, the authorised representative of the Democratic Party Group, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, pointed out yesterday. It is precisely what we warned about when the Republic of Serbia's budget was adopted, that the budget revenues of 329.3 billion dinars were overrated, that the level of expenditure was underestimated, and now it is necessary to fill the budget gaps as we know it, we can and we can. So this change in excise duty is done, first of all, for budgetary and balance reasons, to improve revenue in the budget. I think the proposal has stipulated an increase in budget revenues of over 17 billion dinars. Accizes exist as a tax instrument, but there is also a need for them not only to play a fiscal role but also to enable certain economic objectives to be realised. I fear that this decision, by increasing excise duties, fills the budget deficit, to deviate from the realisation of certain economic objectives that are also achieved by excise policy. The reduction of excise duty on oil and oil will certainly contribute to the reduction of high participation that excise duties have so far had in the structure of the price of domestic motor oil, thus allowing for greater competitiveness of domestic producers, as well as the reduction of the grey economy in this area. What is clear now about the adoption of these amendments to the Excise Act is that we must not live beyond our economic opportunities, that we must insist on budgetary discipline, the reduction of deficits, monetary stability, the reduction of inflation, the liberalisation of prices so that each product gets its real market price. I don't know how much you remember one meeting of finance ministers of all countries in the environment. Let's just say, you can see how much cigarette smuggling is when we know about how much our cigarette production is and what it's worth on our market. The moment domestic production does not find realisation on the market means that there is an increase in the gray economy in the area and that there is an increased smuggling of cigarettes. How can it be the easiest thing to do with this? By agreeing with countries in the environment that the level of these excise products is about the same level so that no one has the motive to smuggle excise products. I'm afraid by increasing the excise duty on cigarettes, oil, oil derivatives, we're going to speed up the gray economy in this area again and make it very attractive to smuggle this type of product. As for excise duties, we think that this will negatively reflect on the investment environment and that was talked about yesterday by Aleksandar Vlahovic. So, the agreement on not changing excise policy with tobacco producers has been reached by the previous government, and we have found that this is one of the best jobs in the privatisation of the tobacco industry in the countries of Central Europe. It is not good that the economic investment environment depends on which party is currently in power, we must lead a long-term policy in this regard. Instead of discharging the economy, which is promised, it is burdensome for both the economy and the population, and therefore it is not good. You say that the oil industry of Serbia will cover this increase in excise duty from its own sources and there will be no increase in retail price, but then we are in trouble with the Refinery of the Panchevo oil that suffered huge damage during NATO bombing, which should reach an economic level that would be envied to be competitive with the refineries in the environment. As for the tax on the use of goods, it was likely from citizens' recent demands for reducing or abolishing them, but practice has shown that some of these goods do not represent a manifestation of the special economic power of citizens and therefore should be excluded from taxation, and this will have no greater reflection on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I think we're already in great danger of devaluing the results that have been achieved over the past three years. It has already been repeated several times from this booth. The generations that come will not remember who said anything about whom, but what they have done for the people and the state. Cheap populism and social demagogy won't do us much good. We have realized that in this country we have a small inflation, a stable currency, increasingly economic conditions, settled public finances, which are fundamental issues of the quality of one government. I would mention one comparison that the previous finance minister often used for this speaker, that public finances are like one huge tanker that goes through the ocean and that it is not exactly desirable to make sudden movements so that this tanker doesn't turn over and it should be very sensitive in these tax instruments that we use. What must be the goal of this country in the future is that, by the tax system, we become the most favourable in the region to attract as much investment as possible. So, we need, in addition to political stability, that intensity to become the best in the region in tax policy. We should approach the restructuring of large systems such as EPS, railways and accelerated privatisation of all companies that have not been privatised so far. Each government has a period of 100 days to show its intentions and I fear that if it is known in the morning by the legal projects that have been in front of this assembly since the new government came into force, it does not give us much optimism in the future. Since the new year, since the previous government of the Republic of Serbia, the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, has been torn down, I have noticed from European standards that the only timer has been moved one hour ahead, but it would probably not have been moved forward either if it had not been promised to go back in the fall in an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2147	The People's MP Vladan Vukicevic has the word, and let the MP Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of laws ahead of us; as far as the Financial transaction Tax Act is concerned, we have nothing to say but that we commend this law and that we think it is a good solution and that it will bring about a good economy. Of course, the Excise Act will sort of burden just the ones that have the least, which are citizens. I am sure that this law, which provides for an increase in excise duties, will affect price growth on a small scale and that the government's attempt to reduce 3.5% of the personal income tax in order to relieve the economy in some extreme context, will affect that the economy still will not be disbursed, because the increase in the price of gasoline will certainly burden the economy, thus producing and thus costing it to a small tomorrow, which, of course, will burden such poor citizens. Of course, when we look at the reasons for the adoption of such a law, and then it is said, that the greater inflow of funds into the budget of the Republic of Serbia is correct and fair and I do not particularly want to enter this law and that I am in some way pointing to some of its negativity. However, what is the subject of my observation and what I would especially like to pay attention to, is the Proposal for amendments to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods. Of course, every country lives on taxes and every state charges taxes on its citizens. It's one of the sources and ways of funding the state. There's no state in the world that doesn't charge taxes. There's only cheap, there's expensive states, there's countries that have a lot of administrations. We sort of belong to these expensive states. The economic power of a state depends on what goods enter luxury goods, and, of course, everywhere that luxury goods are particularly taxed, i.e. Tax rates for those luxury goods are higher. The desire of Serbian citizens, who still belong to those poor countries, is to reduce taxes, develop production, increase the standard of living in Serbia and simply live better in Serbia. As a National MP for New Serbia, I come from the SP-NS coalition from the town of Kragujevac, which once represented one of the largest industrial centres in Serbia, which had the potential for development not only in Šumadija and Pomorava, but also affected the potential of the development of the Republic of Serbia. Today, when the economy is dead, Kragujevac is a ballast to everyone and the citizens of Kragujevac are the hardest and most expensive to pay and feel on their skin. Unfortunately, where it is thin and it is breaking, so we had the chance to see, although I am sorry that Mr Dinkic is not there, that an error was made by chance, so Kragujevac was reduced to 45 million, and according to all this later I think the town of Kragujevac and Šumadija will be in a very invisible position. A city where 180 thousand people live, which has 35,000 unemployed and 10,000 people at the Employment and Education Service, will certainly not be able to bear the burden of these burdens without having a significant impact on the standard and life of the Kragujevac citizens. I'd understand the elimination of some taxes, but the abolition of certain taxes, which I'll talk about later, which absolutely fall into luxury goods, I can't understand. I would understand the elimination of taxes on vehicles from 1150 cubic metres to 1300 cubic metres, because these are vehicles produced in the flag, as a desire by the government to encourage both the production of these vehicles in the flag, and better and cheaper purchase of those vehicles by citizens of Serbia. I would take that as an aid to the automotive industry, and we know that Zastava was one of the largest automotive industries in the Balkans. I'm sure that when citizens of Kragujevac receive the salary they first separate for bread and milk, and then, of course, for everything else, even that part here called luxury goods. I'm really sorry that I'm going to have to, as a New Serbia MP, criticize this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, because I simply don't have the courage to be here a man who will be silent, and to go to that poor town tomorrow and as an MP delegated from these people to defend and try to defend those attitudes that absolutely endanger them life-threatening. I simply don't have the right to allow the Maker and the Kragujevac to be made Majdanpek in some way. One hundred and eighty thousand Kragujevac citizens have nowhere to go. Now I would like to explain certain points, i.e. The provisions of this law. It says – it is proposed to narrow down taxing items on the use of boats, boats and yachts, compared to boats. Every single one of us here would love it if taxes were lifted. We all promised to cut taxes, but there must be a measure. Article 3 proposes harmonising the level of tax on the use of mobile phones. The mobile phone may have been a luxury item ten years ago, but the question is whether today is a luxury goods, when we know that many places in Serbia do not have a telephone line, a telephone station, that in many villages live nursing households and that it may be their only option to call an ambulance or contact their children outside their hometowns. In Article 7, given the proposed narrowing of the subject matter against the boats, it is proposed to delete the standard governing the level of tax on the use of boats. I know what a boat is, but I can't accept that a boat of 10, 12 or 14 meters can be a boat, because my house is 14 meters old and they say it's big, and then let's imagine how big that boat is. I can accept (in Article 8.) It's a luxury to be on a plane today and of course own an aircraft or a plane. Serbian citizens will certainly not resent anyone if there is an enormous increase in taxes. The reasons for the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure are said to be: the adverse consequences of the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure are seen, above all, in the delaying the application of the proposed solutions, which, among other things, stimulate the development of fisheries, as the taxation of the use of boats is abolished. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm not sure this is true, and it is evident and certain that Mr Dinkic is not a fisherman. I'm a fisherman, a hunter, and I can tell you that most of these boats are used to fish, to kill fish with electricity and throw nets. I have submitted an amendment requiring professional fishermen, alas, to be released from paying this tax, and I find that absolutely correct. But, of course, what's interesting and what needs to be said now, and what's very important, is the second part, where tax rates are wanted to be evenly deployed towards the economic strength of citizens. This is very important, and tax rates are not evenly allocated to the economic strength of citizens here, but those who have a lot in certain cases are being released, and those who have little or no or nothing have to pay taxes. I'd also like to refer to something that's related to passenger cars and vans of car-cars of physical faces. If we look at vehicles up to 1150 cubic centimeters, they're cheaper today than they were last year for a hundred dinars. Believe me, I'm sure those hundred dinars mean something to someone, but I'd rather say it's a humiliating item for many citizens, when you look at how all the other vehicles, in a way, have been enormously expensive. If I were to ask myself, if it were to be kept in line with the economic strength of the citizens, I'm sure that up to 1,150 cc's were to be released, because those vehicles included that "fica", the Zastin Original, of 750 cc's, and that "peg" and, of course, that "standin" and that "Yugo". It was supposed to be released for a number of reasons. The optimal market value of "fice" on the market is 200 to 300 euros. It's the optimal price of that vehicle, knowing that the age of that vehicle is 15-20 years. Secondly, I think it would in some way stimulate the purchase of these vehicles up to 1,150 cubic ccs, and of course, those vehicles in this country only produce Red Flag, i.e. The car factory in Kragujevac, which is now in a difficult economic situation and which the government will surely have to consider and find a solution for it. One of the solutions is perhaps to take off this tax, which would allow Serbian citizens in some way to decide to buy Zastava vehicles. Secondly, it is very important that the price of a vehicle from 1,600 to 2,000 cubic metres and from 2,000 to 2,500 cubic metres has jumped significantly. Unfortunately, we have had one very unfavourable situation in the past four years. Too many old and used cars have been imported which, in some ways, were cheap at some point, so our citizens may have settled in, bought foreign cars with much larger cubicity and today, for God's sakes, when they're supposed to register, they're going to have a lot of problems. But who here is the most punished? The most punished are those who drive the van. Is the van a comfortable vehicle or does that van serve someone for a job? Not all the vans were driven by commercial vehicles. I think the most punished agricultural producers here are because agricultural producers use this van most of the time. Of course, I don't mind driving over 3,000 cc's of taxation at an enormous rate of tax. What is very interesting and what in Serbia seems to be, in recent times, not rooted out, it is a punishment for all those people who do private work. The country is heading towards privatisation and is seen to depend on small and medium-sized enterprises and the private sector, which has shown exceptional toughness over the past 14 years and thanks to whom, perhaps in part, the country of Serbia has survived in terms of economy. Earlier, during the Socialist government, privates had to pay more and more than citizens. Believe me, I didn't think that the development and acceleration of the development of the private sector would be reflected like this, so we'll have a situation where all those who own a company have to pay 600% more expensive for vehicles from 1,150 to 1,300 cubic metres, 500% more expensive than 1,300 to 1,600 cubic metres, over1. 600 to 2,000 cc's, and these are again businesses that use the van to perform their work - 350 per cent and from 2,000 to 2,500 cc's 300 per cent. Of course, what's interesting, for vehicles that drive enormously rich people, which are vehicles from 2,500 to 3,000 cubic metres and over 3,000 cubic meters, the difference is only 25%. I wonder why. Of course, what stings the most is that boats up to 14 metres are tax-free and any taxes, and that those boats, which have a cabin and have no cabin, are located in ships and pay for them a fairly high tax rate. The question is, who's taking the boat to work? What do 40-metre boats, 14 meters, 5 meters, use with 300-horse engines? When you look at it now, it says here -- a boat up to 15 meters long with a engine of 96.60 kilowatts to 220.62 kilowatts, and over 220.62 kilowatts is tax-free, and for a 15-metre boat, only a meter of difference, which has the same power -220.62 kilowatts, is paid 300,000 dinars. Believe me, I absolutely think we need to cut taxes everywhere, but we can't be this unfair, so people who drive cars 10-15 years old, up to 1,100 cubic meters, raise taxes, and on the other hand, people who have pleasure boats, skiboats, for smuggling, for poaching, for all that, get rid of taxes. I think these boats, with these 300-, 200-, 150-horse engines, have only those passionate boat lovers and those who have a lot of money. I doubt any of these MPs have a boat of that kind, that length and that size. On the other hand, we also have motorcycles, which are used for 3-4 months, so around here for this motorcycle, which I've never seen, of 1,100 cubic meters, pays 15,000 dinars a month, and the same may be used for luxury purposes, but only three months. I don't see why motorcycles are so taxed, and boats are so free of all giving. For these reasons, I think that, in some ways, the finance minister and the Assembly will fix this law with amendments, that it is really a law that will, in the economic strength of the citizens, tax the citizens. This will be a humiliation for both the Assembly and the Government, if it adopts this law as a whole, without any change; I believe that this is not good and that we must, in addition to those promises, strive to charge taxes from real income, which is from production. What should be our basic struggle, is to develop production, to speed it up, to fill the budget from real income, not to free these boaters from taxes, and to sort of burden the poor to fill the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2149	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, followed by MP Nikola Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2150	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS believes the government has continued with the tax policy run by the previous government and the previous finance minister. The proposed laws are, in fact, only cosmetic changes to existing legal rules and may be said to serve someone's pre-election campaign. I can't agree with the current finance minister's claim that if you release a type of taxation tax on the market, in another place to compensate for that difference, you have to increase the sales tax, so it's supposed to be that those poorer layers of the population have been released from sales tax and that sales tax is increasing for luxury goods. However, there is another way of fiscal liberation, which is to reduce budget users using these funds. I was already on the Financial Committee, when the debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget was held, and today I argue that the current budget is too luxurious. I'd like to say where that money from these taxes will go, in part, not all of it. So besides the ministries that spend a large amount of money we have various agencies and offices. You have a European Union Association Office, which is due to spend 42,400,000 dinars this year, so the Office for Media Cooperation, which is the government's office, which is due to spend 20,680,000. You have the Agency for Foreign Investment and Export Promotion - 27 million dinars. I don't know why these people are getting paid, because our imports are four to five times higher than exports, and there's not a word about foreign investments. Furthermore, the Anti-Corruption Council -- 318 million dinars, and I still claim that it is our country, especially when it comes to the state administration, and how corrupt and the degree of corruption has not been reduced, so I see no reason why these gentlemen would get those 318 million dinars. And not to mention that there is still a point in the budget, and that is not the question of the Minister of Finance but the National Assembly, that 13 million dinars for the Lustration Commission have been allocated, and that it is not the minister who needs to determine whether that money is going to be spent or not, it has already been determined by the Assembly. This item should not have been in the draft budget. You have an Agency for the Promotion of State Administration, a pandan of the Ministry of State Administration that should be spent by 9376,000 dinars. You have RTS – 3,200,000 dinars; Public Payments Authority – 1.007,000 dinars; Public Procurement Administration – 22,226,000 dinars; Tobacco Agency, financed from the budget of 16.801,000 dinars, and I believe that thanks to those fees for obtaining a license to sell tobacco, that amount is quite sufficient. The question is, what are the gentlemen's salaries in that agency? You have the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure 5,746,000 dinars and you have the Ministry of Local Self-Government. You have the Rural Development Agency – 4.466.000; the Diaspora Relations Agency – 8.888,000 dinars; then the Republic Directorate for Stock Reserves – 531.210,000 dinars. The question arises as to what they spend money on, because remember what it was like last year when it came to the price of livestock; the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate and serves to intervene when there is a market disturbance, a strategic product drop, to buy market surpluses, and to place them on the market at a higher price and to finance it. Why would they get more than half a billion dinars? You have the Energy Efficiency Agency – 7,509.000 dinars. It would be best if the agency were financed by Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, not by the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the budget of the Republic of Serbia... (President: Back on topic, please. I'm talking about where money is spent from these taxes, and how we're on the subject. Environmental Protection Administration – 558,840,000 dinars, and then you have the Environment Protection Agency – 13,718,000 dinars. That's how money is spent from the budget, and that's why one kind of taxation can't be released until the other rises. That's why this budget is too luxurious. Now let's go back to the laws proposed by the current government. When it comes to excise duties, there was some story that it was mostly freed goods that were very little involved in the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, so I don't understand why this enormous price of motor gasoline and diesel fuel was increasing, and what the proposer said about three dinars. I can understand when it comes to the price of gasoline, but I can't understand when it comes to diesel fuel. Diesel fuel is used for passenger cars, mainly used in industry, in goods and services and in agriculture. Any increase in diesel fuel prices must reflect an increase in the prices of goods of general consumption, which automatically leads to a drop in living standards. When it comes to cigarettes, it actually shows that the legislator of these laws does not release the poorest layers of the population, but even, on the contrary, even the layers of the population are even more fiscally burdened. For the cheapest cigarettes, an increase in excise duty is planned by over 150%, while for the most expensive cigarettes the increase in excise duty goes about 60 to 70%. It is particularly surprising to Article 17, and the question arises why we are even discussing this law and these increases in excise duties, because the amendments and additions to the Excise Act had exactly one year ago, it seems to me, where indexation has been established that excise duties are increasing in proportion to the price to a little bit according to the report of the Statistical Office. The question arises whether these excise duties have already been increased, but inflation seems to be higher, and you cannot admit it, so you decided to increase excise duties through amendments and additions to the Excise Act and to earn the budget of the Republic of Serbia further. When it comes to the Law on Tax on Use, Sticking and Wearing goods, demagogy is again that the poorest layers of the population are released and that they are made easier just because, for example, they are least taxed by vehicles of up to 1,150 cubic metres. The ranks include the flag and vehicles of Western production that are much more luxurious than domestic ones. This type of taxation and classification of a vehicle whether or not luxurious, based on volume or cubicity, is obsolete. The insurance companies that have to take care of it have long since moved to an estimate of the luxury of a vehicle based on the power that the vehicle has. It is much more realistic and much more precise to determine the price of the vehicle, and the price of the vehicle is connected to the luxury so that the one who drives a really expensive car and pays the biggest tax. In any case, the SRS is against this kind of taxation, because when you buy a car you have to pay sales tax, by exploiting cars you pay sales tax on motor gasoline, you pay sales tax for spare parts, you pay tolls. When registering, you pay different travel fees, construction land and so on. So, simply, for a car that may be 15 or 20 years old, the state plans to take from it 300, 400% more than that car was worth when it was bought. When it comes to cell phones, it seems to me that some still consider the cell phone to be a luxury. When a mobile phone tax was introduced, the cheapest mobile phone cost 700 marks and higher, and the value of the tax was about 13 marks. So you had to pay that fee for five years to get the value of the phone. From these 200 dinars you increase to 300 and you think mobile phone is a luxury, and now it's cheaper to buy a mobile phone, regardless of which card, postpaid or prepaid, than to introduce a fixed phone home. There is no way we can think of a mobile phone as something that needs to be further taxed, because it is already paid for in the exploitation of a mobile phone tax on the transport of services, and even when it is bought, it is paid for the sales of goods. Just one more thing to get back to the excises. Apparently these excises on cigarettes won't affect the rise of the gray economy. I find that impossible, because as much as you increase any fiscal burden, it's normal for a desire for illegal income to increase. The fact that Mr. Minister is threatening to shut down the kiosks and already close them down is basically a missing story, because those who hold kiosks and those who sell illegal cigarettes must accept such conditions, because illegal cigarettes are on the market. If he won't, he'll accept someone else, sell it, create a competition for him and destroy it. The fight against cigarette smuggling ends in warehouses with distributors and importers of such goods, not in retail, which in principle has the slightest profit. When it comes to taxes on financial transactions, changes and additions to that tax we had exactly a year ago. At the time, Minister Djelic was current. I can say that it's the tax that's the least involved in taxation at all, and it's the biggest administration of all the other taxes. It is a tax that must be applied every month in a special form prescribed by the minister and that any traffic made during one working day and with such tax application you must go to the tax administration every month. All other taxes, which take place 99 times more than this budget revenue tax, are reported once every three months in a much simpler and easier way. The SRS considers that this type of taxation should be abolished because the reasons for such a tax had ceased. That tax came from two taxes of 0.15%. The first was a fee for rebuilding the Kolubar district affected by an earthquake of 0.15%. The second tax was to prepare defence against possible NATO aggression at the same rate as 0.15% and went directly to the then jury account of the defence ministry. Later, after NATO aggression, it was united in a single 0.30% tax and was intended to restore the structure after NATO aggression. One such dedicated type of taxation, although it was a tax at the time, has been abolished by Minister Djelic, suggests that it is a tax and pours one dedicated tax into the general register and spends according to his free will, thanks to all the laws he has passed, which you do not change. Since you no longer need to rebuild the country, or threaten any NATO aggression, or have an outside wall of sanctions, a kind of taxation should be abolished. Mr. Minister's story that he can't do that, because he entered the revenue side of the budget, is not correct, because before the SRS's budget was passed a proposal for a tax on financial transactions to abolish the tax. Later, one part of these funds through changes and additions to the law was intended to restore Hilandar, worth 700 million dinars, and we wouldn't mind if you used that tax to return the money they gave to the citizens and businesses of Serbia for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2151	On what grounds? As an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Jovan Todorovic. Do you use 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2152	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, I would like to introduce you to a few views, particularly regarding the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing Goods and Amendments to the Excise Act. We think that the Financial transaction Tax Act is fully acceptable, first of all because at the end of the year it will essentially be abolished, and that some of the solutions proposed in this law can essentially be considered technical, for more precise purposes, in those transactions relating to the taking, return of credit, the transaction of the business and the business banks. When it comes to these other two tax and excise laws, I have to say that every government that decides to increase certain taxes or taxes risks getting a lot of negative points. We, as a parliamentary group of SPS, have tried to realistically look at the proposed solutions, primarily from the point of view of the realization of those budget items that represent so-called. Social part of the budget. We have come to the realization that between two evils we have to choose less, and it is less evil to increase taxes or excise taxes for certain categories, rather than to deny pensioners, to deny health care for part of the assets, to deny the labour market or other funds that are being donated from the budget, and in essence that social part of the programme that lies in the budget to derogate or lead to the fact that it cannot be realised. So I'm a little surprised by some MPs moaning over the fact that let's say cigarettes of Class C will be collected on the basis of an increased excise on one dinar, and those cigarettes produced in the printing industry, in the industry that the previous government says is the best job it's ever done, by selling to the tobacco industry. If someone had asked me, and every ordinary citizen, tobacco should not have been sold, because that money that was received for the tobacco industry was used to shut up so-called. budget gaps in the rule of the previous government, and citizens did not or almost did not benefit from it. The tobacco industry worked, the workers received salaries, the tax on cigarettes was collected as much as the previous government had the opportunity or wanted to introduce financial discipline, and so I'm surprised that now someone is complaining about that one dinar, for a higher price of cigarettes based on increased excise duties. In that case, I'm a classic smoker. By 15 days ago, the price of "classics" per pack was 32,00 dinars, and now it's 35.00 dinars, and in the meantime there's no increase in excise duty. Why should MPs now complain over the fate of the tobacco industry and some oral agreement; please, Mr. Vlahovic says – the oral agreement that excise will not increase. Will the tobacco industry now, under that oral agreement, take the price down to 33.00 dinars because it's allowed here to raise the price by one dinar? I think it's an unprincipled view of something that the government had no right to agree on, and especially not verbally. When I choose whether to increase the price of gasoline by 3,00 dinars or 3,60 dinars, given that 20% of the excise tax goes, or to realize the capital budget, to fix so many and so many hundred kilometers of roads that we don't get into craters with our cars, then I choose a slightly higher price for gasoline. It's a real approach to things. When I choose between whether to increase diesel fuel prices by 3,00 dinars, while providing 18 billion dinars in the budget, just as much as the agrarian budget is, and from that agrarian budget, regress the fuel for farmers of 9,00 dinars, I choose this second, because despite this increase in diesel fuel prices, the farmer will be able to obtain diesel fuel by 6.00 dinars cheaper than the present case. Let's move on, it's a general moaning - we'll raise the price of coffee. I'm an economist, and I always count on what that means. Now there's an excise on a kilo of coffee, this one we're talking about, 1600 dinars, in the future there'll be 40,00 dinars: so for 24.00 dinars per kilogram of coffee more. If we know that out of 100 grams of coffee every good housewife cooks 16 average cups of coffee, then I know that coffee that I drink every morning will cost me 15 pairs more than it costs now. After I've had six coffees in the day, I'll have $1.00 more in one day. So it is not healthy to drink coffee, but it would be irresponsible from the Socialist point of view not to meet the commitments made in the budget and thus to question the achievement and social, and economic and development functions in that budget. I'm not the one who protects the government. It bothers me here today why there is no Minister Dinkic to hear some objective objections to these laws, and now I will tell you further about what I cannot accept. I can't accept the following few things from the Bill on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods. It's already been said a lot, but I'm trying to remind you now. The promoter introduces a new category that has not been present in the law, namely passenger cars and vans, in the amendments to the part of the law relating to motor vehicles. So far, the law has not distinguished it and this is a special tax, if you own a car or a van; it was the same for natural and legal persons. Here we have two, in my opinion, controversial things. First, why the van is considered a luxury, since the van is a luxury, and by nature things and by the characteristics of almost every van the vehicle is a power that crosses 2,500 cubic meters and is so drastically taxed. This provision, therefore, was taken over from the previous solution of that government and that of Minister Djelic, but was obviously not considered to serve, first of all, the van of the vehicle in both the physical and the legal person in order to carry out economic activity. If it's the government's general commitment to economic activity, then it can't be so drastic to tax the van of a vehicle. Please, van vehicle, power 2,500 to 3,000 cubic meters, owned by a legal entity, so a small or medium-sized enterprise, will be taxed with 35,000 dinars. If it crosses 3,000 cubic meters, it will be taxed with 50,000 dinars. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that there is a van of vehicles owned or owned by natural or legal persons, regardless of whose value is not 50,000 dinars. So, it's not the only expenditure relating to a van vehicle, and it's clear to everyone in this room and beyond that, that the van is not used by anyone for luxury purposes, it's to do some kind of job. If we can understand that the budget needs money, then we can't understand this much increase. (President: Are you using the next 10 minutes? Yeah, I'll use the next 10 minutes. In doing so, I give recognition to the promoter that for the poorest layer of the population who owns cars of up to 2,000 cubic metres something has taken off that obligation based on the income tax. Please, these are symbolic amounts, and they are essentially not supposed to be exploited in a way – that is, the Government. The promoter wanted to free some of the citizens of some obligation, because it was reduced by 100-200 dinars, something that could be tolerated; but if you, for a van or a passenger car, especially with legal persons, from earlier 20,000 dinars to 35,000 dinars, from earlier 20,000 dinars to 50,000 dinars, you essentially take all the profits made by one entrepreneur during the year (i.e. small entrepreneurs, i.e. small enterprises and medium-sized enterprises). You didn't stimulate him to continue doing that job. Look further, the current law predicted that for those vehicles that are old, there is a discount of 5% per year of age, so that the discount does not exceed 40%. You here are now proposing something that cannot be acceptable for the Socialists, which is that this discount is 10% for vehicles over five to eight years, 20% for vehicles over eight to 10 years and 30% for vehicles over 10 years of age. One who owns a vehicle over 10 years of age is thus taxed, not to mention that the fleet of our citizens is on average 13, 14, or 15 years old. Here we have suggested, and hopefully it will be accepted, I have seen another such amendment, to keep the old solution, that the biggest discount be 40%, but to increase by the previous two categories from 10% to 15%, from 20% to 25%, and in some ways not to overwork those people who own those vehicles. For mobile phones, the Socialist Party has just proposed, understanding the need to fill in the budget gaps for these next few months by the end of 2004 and eliminate the negative effects of the budget deficit, to accept an increase of the tax from 200 to 300 dinars in the establishment of a subscription relationship and also from 200 to 300 dinars in the payment of the monthly use bill, while retaining these 10% for credit cards, or only until the end of 2004, and that all citizens, all legal and physical persons, will be released from 1 January 2005. When it comes to guns, I'm not going to talk about hunters, fishermen right now, I'm not going to run a presidential campaign, although I can say that the Socialists think that this presidential election will be won by our candidate, Ivica Dacic. He's not a hunter, he's not a fisherman, he's a man who can get citizens' trust and he can be the best president, but I won't talk about it. I'm going to talk about that we can't accept such a drastic tax increase on the fact that someone with the permission of the MUP owns weapons for which the gun was issued and that it serves him for personal security, but that the obligation on the basis of the tax from 900 dinars is increased to 2,000 dinars and for those persons who have permission to carry a personal security weapon to increase that obligation from 4,500 dinars to 10,000 dinars. Here's why. I understand that these people in Serbia have about 100,000. Those 100,000 people got a completely regular, legal, legal permit to keep a certain gun in his house because his personal security was compromised. There are persons who got permission to carry a gun like that, too, because they're at risk of personal safety. When someone is at risk of personal security, it's a punishment in itself. If you do more than double that obligation now, then he really has a problem. I can't pay a tax, or a tax of 10,000 dinars, and I have to travel from my place of work to my home and, say, I have to go 10 kilometers through the gaps, and I'm threatened. The M.O.P. assessed that someone was at risk, and that's why he authorized him to hold that weapon. That's why I don't think he drinks water, folksly speaking, the argument that this tax hike is being introduced to reduce the number of pieces of weapons in the public. It just doesn't make sense. Why? What do we do with these weapons that the citizens own with permission, with the gun list? We're not gonna throw it away, are we? I'll be back in a moment for an illustration. It's a good thing the jet fuel excise is lifted, the fuel used by the planes, because we had the fact that the fuel for the planes was cheaper in Romania than ours, so they tanked the fuel there. It's good to cut the excise on motor oil because it was the cause of too much smuggling. This is where the oil used for lighting is mentioned. I'm just asking you to see the next problem that is one sad fact. Because the previous government in the previous three years six times increased the price of electricity by many citizens, especially the poorest and especially the ageing households in the country, were unable to pay such a high price for electricity. As a result, many are excluded as consumers. For example, only in my 700 consumer password has been excluded in the last three years from the power grid, without ever joining the power grid again because they are unable to pay such a high electricity price in which today only the tax is higher than in 2000 was the total bill for spent electricity and taxes. So unfortunately, I have to support lifting the excise on the lighting oil, because there is no other choice for those who are thus excluded and who cannot pay for the reconnection to the power grid. In the end, I would like to support one initiative of the Air Force of Serbia, which all MPs, or all parliamentary groups, have received, in the sense that the tax on the goods available to the Air Force is not introduced if they are for sport purposes. That's what I'll talk about when they're amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2153	The word has the People's MP Nikola Novakovic, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared. National MP Nikola Novakovic gives up. The People's MP Milan Markovic has the word, and let the MP Branimir Trajkovic be prepared. National MP Milan Markovic gives up. The word is by MP Branimir Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2154	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, amends and regulates this area, which began approximately two years ago, Minister Djelic. I have to start by saying right away that this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods is a very prominent social line. In some ways, the middle and poor layers of citizens are protected. Those richer and with a higher standard of living will have to stand out more for the Republic of Serbia's budget. That is true in all other European countries. With this excise policy, we are approaching the legal solutions and standards of the European Union. Let us not forget that countries in the environment, including the republics of the former Yugoslavia, have already adapted their laws to the laws of the European Union. These amendments to the law would also agree with a legal solution in Montenegro, which is our obligation in the process of harmonisation of the Member States. Someone here yesterday was saying they're going to keep smuggling, they're going to even increase. As we all know, smuggling is interesting for everything that is much cheaper in the countries of our environment than in our country. Prices with this increase in excise duties for certain products will be quite uniform, at least as far as the former republics of the SFRY are concerned, and hence, the biggest smuggling. Here I think of all those products and goods that people most use and use, which are cigarettes, coffee, gasoline and food products. The problem of foreign cigarette smuggling in Montenegro is still evident today, although it is largely reduced compared to a period a few years ago. We will also face this problem in the coming period, and this problem of cigarette smuggling is evident in other European Union countries. I'll remind you, for example, of the smuggling of cigarettes into West Germany from Poland and other countries of the former Soviet Union. On the basis of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing Goods, I will say a few words. At the very beginning, I would like to welcome the proposal to tax cars in this way. Namely, for all vehicles up to 2,000 cc's of tax is somewhat reduced, while on the other side the tax on luxury cars is getting much higher. However, it should also be noted that, according to the age of the vehicle, a reduction in taxes is made from 10 to 30 per cent. This will also erase the boat tax, while for luxury yachts the tax is dramatically increased. Since there is a minister, I would ask him to (in Article 19) sports aircraft that are owned by sports clubs free of high taxes. I also welcome tax exemptions for all hunting and trophy weapons, but I disagree with the 10,000 dinar tax on carrying weapons. I think the minister should know that there's a very small number of persons who own a license to carry a weapon. Criminals carrying heclares and other types of personal weapons certainly don't have any permission to carry weapons. The financial effect of these changes, I mean the corporate tax, will certainly be small. Now something about amendments to the Excise Act. In this law, I'll only stay for a short while, and that's at the end of the excise duty on motor oil and oil. From this place, two years ago, I asked Minister Djelic to lift excise duties on these products, protecting the interests of the oil factory and the Rubin factory from Kruševec. At that time, Minister Djelic reduced excise duties, though for motor oil and oil, by about 50 per cent, but with the quarterly adjustment of excise duties with the rate of growth prices to a little positive impact on the reduction of excise duties. Here I have a memo from the oil factory saying that by removing the excise on the oil, it automatically eliminates and the generator of the grey economy in the area of oil. There is a realistic assessment that over one third of the total sales of oil are carried out by illegal means, by importing black and counterfeiting products. In this way, the payment of excise duties and sales taxes is completely avoided, which participate in the structure of the total price of the product with more than 50 per cent. The main motive for the illegal sale of oil is the enormously high excise duty and sales tax, which is contrary to the tax policy of the European Union. Real estimates are that the elimination of excise duties on oil and oil will almost completely destimulate the illegal sale of oil and oil, resulting in huge amounts of oil, of over 15,000 tonnes, on an annual basis, moving from the area of illegal to legal sales. This also implies an increase in the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The economy would have reduced the total purchase price of oil due to this lower excise duty, and therefore lower prices for the cost of its products. Another positive effect of removing excise duties on motor oil and oil is that users of oil would be protected from falsification and from oily suspicious quality. The capacity utilisation of domestic producers would increase, as well as the overall needs of Serbia's oil market, which is around 50,000 tonnes. The 15 thousand tons that practically go black would move into the legal sphere and be produced by us. So this elimination of excise duty would be just some first phase of shutting down the gray market in this area. In the end, I'd like to say something about the excise on alcoholic beverages. From the Rubin factory in Krusevec, I received a letter welcoming this law, but disagreeing with the total abolition of excise duties on ethyl alcohol. It would be very good if we were able to abolish or at least reduce excise duties on natural brandy and brandy by amending and supplementing the Excise Act, and to replace this amount by increasing excise duties in alcoholic beverages based on ethyl alcohol. It's an artificial drink, by the way. We don't think it's a good suggestion to lift the excise on ethyl alcohol for all purposes of use. The abolition of excise duty on ethyl alcohol is possible in organised countries, where ethyl alcohol production and transport are strictly controlled, as is the case with European Union countries, where it is a perfectly normal thing. Unfortunately, we cannot boast of that, and the question is when will we succeed in establishing control over the roads of alcohol, even at a similar level as it is in the countries of the European Union. Finally, there are strong indications that part of the money obtained by counterfeiting drinks, such as "Rubin's" vine, is also used for the purchase of spirits, i.e. for illegal production of ethyl alcohol. We think the elimination of excise duty on ethyl alcohol will speed up the high share of counterfeit drinks on our market anyway. And by forging a drink at a loss is a state that doesn't pay taxes or taxes on the market. The DSS will vote for this package of laws I've been talking about so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2155	The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2156	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I must express my disagreement with the National Assembly's decision to bring together a debate on these points of the agenda, no matter what thematically similar laws are involved. I think their importance to the state and to the citizens is so great and of great influence, that we could each of these laws consider individually. It's quite understandable to me that the ruling coalition is in a hurry. There are two reasons for that. The first is that these laws are so much of a negative influence on the citizens and so much of the consequences of their application will the citizens feel in their pocket, that they are in a hurry to be heard from this pay phone as little as possible, so that the citizens will not be in the midst of what is happening here and that, practically, they are surprised at what is going to happen to them. The second reason you are in a hurry is because you are aware that presidential candidate Tomislav Nikolic, as president of the Republic, would return this law to the Assembly for review, so you are in a hurry to bring this in by June 13th, so that you do not get into such an awkward situation. As far as the proposed laws are concerned, I will briefly refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Use, Sticking and Wearing Goods and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises. I'll try to be brief, so I don't spend a lot of time and let my colleagues say a few words. The minister in the opening exhibition says that the government has managed, proposing these laws, the motives of reducing taxes on forms that stimulate production, tax reductions to the poor and increasing those who have, or who are rich. That would be fine, but as soon as we open the front pages of these laws, we see that these taxes are subject absolutely to all citizens, both rich and poor. In Article 2, we have taxation of passenger cars and vans of vehicles of natural and legal persons by determining the vehicle’s cubicity. We have a situation that this vehicle tax has increased from 30 to 50%. There may be nothing illogical about new vehicles, so whoever has money, a few tens of thousands of euros for a new vehicle, which is 300, 400 or 500 euros for him to pay taxes. The government lost sight of the fact that a large number of our citizens used the benefits of imports a while ago, so through relatives, friends, friends, or anyone who knows who imported a large number of vehicles from abroad, not looking at their strength, at their cubicity, under very favourable conditions. Now we are going to be in an absurd situation to say, the owner of a vehicle whose cubicity exceeds 3,000 centimetres of cubic pay an annual tax of 300 or 400 euros for a vehicle worth 1,500 euros on the market. In this way he will buy his vehicle from the state again in three or four years' time. So, one absurd situation, regardless of the benefits the minister says he adopted through the amendment to increase the percentage of discounts for certain years of vehicle. As regards Article 3, an increase in the tax on the use of a mobile phone from 200 to 300 dinars is foreseen. Gentlemen, if the mobile phone five, six or seven years ago was a luxury, today, when it's used by over 60% of the population, it certainly isn't. Today, maltene, everyone has a phone, so it's cheaper to buy a cell phone with a card than to introduce fixed telephony. We will be in a situation where a large number of citizens pay a monthly tax of 300 dinars for using the phone, and that their account for spent impulses will be lower. It's nowhere in the world. I would still refer only to Article 9 of this law, which provides for the taxation of weapons. The arms tax issued by the personal security gun is increasing from 900 to 2,000 dinars and for weapons for which a license for carrying a personal safety weapon has been issued from 4,500 to 10,000 dinars. In an explanation, which is extremely unprofessional, superficial and hypocritical, it is said: "In view of the social danger of weapons, for the weapons held in the taxation system, it is proposed to increase the level of taxes, thus also destabilising its attitude, i.e. carrying." If, in this way, it is logical to stimulate its acquisition on the illegal market and not to report to the competent authorities. Secondly, by handling the logic of this reasoning, I am simply surprised that the increase in excise duty on petroleum products has not been explained in such a way that, given the danger of environmental pollution, we increase the excise duty on the use of oil products, so that citizens do not drive cars and thus contribute to the conservation of the environment. So the explanation, in my opinion, is extremely problematic, unprofessional and superficial. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, it provides for the excise burden of products of broad consumption used by all citizens of Serbia, and above all applies to oil derivatives that will average 4 to 5 dinars, perhaps more, and cigarettes A, B and C. So A-class cigarettes will be additionally charged with excise duty for 10.47 dinars, B-class cigarettes for 3.02 dinars and C-class cigarettes for 5.95 dinars. Yesterday, the minister says -- we accepted an amendment to increase the excise duty on these cheapest C-class cigarettes by just one dinar. You know, this is about your bad intentions. You were going to raise the price and it doesn't matter if it's bigger by a dinar, two or five. There's no principle of difference. You've raised the price. Like there's no principled difference between thieves -- is it a little thief who picks up the trafics, so-called. a trafficker or a big thief who, for example, abuses the office of minister and garners millions of euros? There's no difference in principle. The thief is a thief, because he does not steal as much as he would like to steal, but as much as he is allowed, so that this law is about a bad intention to collect goods of broad consumption and thus additionally burden the citizens of Serbia. It's just funny sounds like an explanation where it's said that one of the basic reasons for law-making is to further reduce the size of the gray economy. Here something with logic is wrong, because as soon as you tax or excisely burden a product, you encourage a gray economy, or illegal channels, to make a greater profit. As for the inflow of funds that the state budget will receive by these means, it is an enormous sum. So the planned budget funds, taxing these products, I'm talking about one law and another, are about 72.5 billion dinars. Gentlemen, that's a little over one billion euros. So, you plan to raise one billion euros from Serbian citizens this year, which means about a quarter of the budget planned for this year, unless I'm mistaken that it's about 4 billion euros. I find this kind of policy difficult to survive for a long time in power, because unlike the previous one, you're proving to be more edgy, more grammatical, more greedy. And those who take less will remain in power, I hope by 13 June, when Tomislav Nikolic will become president of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2157	The People's Messenger Branca Stojanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2158	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I will try in my own, hopefully a brief, address that through a discussion of these two draft laws – amending and supplementing the Act on Excises and the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing goods – I say my position and position on these laws. What is known to all of us, I hope, and clearly with the adoption of the budget that we have brought in this assembly, and then we have received information from Mr. Minister that we are expected by a certain set of laws in this area. I personally view this as a continuation of the work on these laws and these two projects that we have today. Of course, the SPS is not happy that, through the increase of certain taxes and excise duties, there may be an increase in prices to a little, although we have assurances from Mr. Minister and Professional Services that they will not significantly influence, but rather slightly less than 1% on the annual level. As far as excise duties are concerned (and here I would agree with a colleague from the DSS who raised one question), I think it is extremely important and that a proper policy and decision-making, related to excise policy, can in some ways be controlled and that certain industries are promoted, and that a significant stimulant is given. I'd like to agree here with my colleagues from Krushevac. I think it's from Rubin. I don't think it's good, Mr. Minister, to lift the excise duty on ethyl alcohol or ethanol, because for your efforts, the desire to deal decisively with the mafia of any rank, I am responsible for telling you that there is also an alcoholic mafia in this country, which is very well-founded, which has a major impact on producers dealing with this type of production. This is where it's spoken for producers of vines and natural brandy. If this proposal is accepted so that the excise duty on ethyl alcohol is not paid, which I personally disagree with, hopefully we can correct it eventually when we pass laws relating to certain rules on wine production, heavy alcoholic beverages and other things. In this way, we directly provide the possibility that the distribution of ethyl alcohol without excise duty will lower the price on the market and thus provide the possibility of further jeopardizing the production of natural raki and the winery mentioned here. These are the two products that are produced and quality products, and the other problem is that we don't have their brand and we can't export them. I think that's what we should think about and that's what this is about. As for the other excise duties proposed, or their increase or release, I personally think that increasing the excise duty on diesel fuel will directly affect the agricultural production that we all agreed together here and agreed that it is very important for us, for our country. I would take the opportunity for this speaker to encourage Mr. Minister, as a representative of the government, to proceed as quickly as possible with the realisation of the sale and distribution of diesels for agriculture, means, as the government has brought, with the release of a certain tax on that. As far as this other law is concerned, I'd like to be here, and you've heard from our authorised representative, when it comes to passenger cars and van vehicles, we've invested one amendment, where we're asking that the van be excused from this, because they're really no luxury. Believe me, I come from that neighborhood that's fruit-wine-radar. These are the only vehicles that supply this city, among other things, to agricultural products. I don't believe this kind of vehicle is owned by people who don't do agricultural production. It is personally incomprehensible to me that such an amendment has been rejected by the government. I'd like to point out one more thing, which is that there's been a lot of controversy here about hunting weapons taxes and a proposal to increase the amount of taxes for registered weapons that have been granted the authorisation to hold and carry in such an abnormal amount. I think we'd all agree, especially hunters, that in that way we've made an unwarranted difference, where we've provided the possibility of a man owning without paying taxes so-called taxes. A hunting weapon without being a member of a hunting club. On the other hand, we're increasing this extremely high gun rate for which the man who owns it has orderly documents, and very few people are allowed to carry weapons. There's only a few in my town. There are very sharp criteria under which the SUP issues such permits. So, I'd like to say that, and I think that what's going on and what's written isn't best formulated, that, possibly, for the purchase of new weapons, these taxes are introduced, and that for people who already own weapons and have orderly documents for that to remain at the level they were at in the previous period. For all of this, which I was just talking about, we're going to make amendments and we're going to try to convince this assembly home what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2159	The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Miloljub Albianic. You gave up. The word is "Milloljub Albianic." Here you go. Let the People's MP Darko Glisic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2160	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a very heated debate yesterday, I will reduce the discussion to solving a few ordinary questions. Answer me, please, didn't the finance minister give you a picture of the situation? When I say a picture of the situation, first of all I mean the gray economy. The grey economy is part of an economy hidden from power and it is simply an attempt to avoid paying taxes. According to estimates, the share of the grey economy in the social gross product moves in the US 7%, Italy 15%, Hungary 20%, Poland 22%, and us about 50%. We heard the goal presented by the finance minister to cut to 20-25%. Didn't the minister suggest measures for you to address your poor condition? Yes, we have before us the proposals to amend and supplement three laws: on taxes on financial transactions, on use, on holding and carrying goods and excise duties. In certain discussions, it could be heard that the minister is proposing laws based on pre-election promises. It is a pleasure to say that the time has come for responsible parties, which is the G17 plus, to start making pre-election promises. To do so, promises must be realistic and realistic. Such promises, aimed at the well-being of citizens and states, continue to meet the G17 plus. The basic thread and the essence of the proposed laws is that the tax burden is transferred to payablely capable layers, and that this burden and the credit be lower for the poorer layers of the population. Of course, the proposal is to finally separate the luxury, which can only afford the rich, from the basic products used by most of our country's citizens. Now I'm going to ask you a direct question – might the motive of attacking this law not be hidden in the fact that in this way someone wants to protect the powerful in this country? In our history there is a famous finance minister who refused to lend credit to the King. I also urge this minister not to be privileged in his work; the tax from financial powers must be charged. In the end, didn't the minister say the basic objective of these legal proposals? We heard in discussions that this is a way to fill the budget deficit. It's absolutely true. Excise in the people is known as a circumcision. The motives for introducing the cut are to increase income, but also to protect domestic products. If we add customs here, of course, the process will be completely rounded up. It is clear that the best finance minister is the one who fills the budget in a fair way, but in a fair way also deploys the same budget. The minister also made a budget of about three billion dinars higher in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Does anyone suspect there'll be more money in this way, say, for schools, colleges, hospitals and so on? The G17 plus will support the proposed legislative solutions. Of course, I call on the other MPs to gall for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2161	The word has the People's MP Darko Glisic, and let the MP Predrag Mijailovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every time in this previous three months when we had some bill or proposal on amendments to laws passed by the government, we heard that it was the fulfillment of the pre-election promise. All MPs who defended the legislative proposal, and mostly from MP groups from which the minister who submitted the proposal, as well as my predecessors, stressed that it was a pre-election promise. A man would simply get the impression that on the basis of all these pre-election promises, which you have so often repeated to fulfill in the last three months, the people began to live better. But in public, on the street, and in public opinion at all, we have a really different picture and the people live the same way, and it seems even worse, and they will live up if these three amendments and additions to the laws tabled by the finance minister go through. What is foreseen by the first proposal to amend and supplement the Financial transaction Tax Act? This law will remain valid this year and since it provides for some 0.20% of the current financial transaction tax to be made into the budget, that the funds that were previously intended for the recovery of the Kolubara County and later for the restoration of the infrastructure that was destroyed during NATO bombing are being allocated to me, I simply do not understand why (and did not have the funds obtained by such a tax) only 500 million are dedicated to the rehabilitation of the Kolubar district, since I am from the district. Incomparably larger funds are needed to resuscitate what was destroyed there during the earthquake, and if the law is valid until 31 December, if funds are to be raised under the law by 31 December, the larger funds could be uncomparably defined in the budget itself. As for the proposal to amend and supplement the Excise Act, we've seen the jet fuel excises, the jet gas, the engine oil, and the oil here. All kinds of motor gasoline and diesel fuel are increasing, to cigarettes A,B and C categories. When we look at this first attitude where excises are removed, an incomparably smaller number of people have been affected and an incomparably fewer people are released by this elimination of excises and an incomparably smaller income has been posted in this way. By increasing excise duties, I don't believe we'll be able to maintain this price of gasoline if the price of gasoline is connected. This means that everything else will be collected and we'll have a price rise, and the standard becomes compromised. The minister said he would go, as he had already pointed out, he was already going after some traffickers, catching those who were without an excise stamp, and I find that a little interesting. It's another government minister with a trade problem, which seems to be some consensus you've reached in the ruling coalition. Every minister from some parliamentary group has a trade problem. We see that Minister Dinkic also announces something, chases at trafics, preys on some boxing cigarettes, and does not curb smuggling in its very root, does not suppress those huge boots that enter Serbia and that enables the development of the black market and that someone is rich. It is clear to me now why the presidential elections were not called, but only on April 4th, so it will be held on June 13th. If they had been called when they were to be called, if they had already been held, we would not have these laws on the agenda today that make it difficult for citizens to find a difficult position anyway. Today, we would consider a better, more specialised government that would take care of citizens' interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2163	The word is by MP Predrag Mijailovic, followed by MP Slobodan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2164	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a set of tax laws proposed by the DSS government will support. The reasons for that are next. If we look at the amendment and the addition of the Financial transaction Act, it is seen that since 2005, this tax will be completely abolished, which means 0.5% will remain more money for investment. It is well known that without investment, there is no development in the state, there is no employment, and that is also the main reason why the DSS will support this proposal to abolish the financial transaction tax. If we look at the bill of amendments to the Law on Taxation on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, this law is really not ideal and we have to say, we will all be happy when this law is not there or if our citizens can actually pay for those who have greater financial power. In any case, the government has taken care of citizens who are weaker financial powers, especially when it comes to cars whose cubicity does not exceed 1,100 cubic metres; then, for older cars – God forbid that one day there should be a bigger tax on old cars, so that our people can drive real and good cars and have fewer crashes and more. Let's hope it works under the leadership of the DSS when she comes to power on her own. The draft excise law – the DSS will support this law for the following reasons. If we look at excises on natural alcoholic beverages, domestic drinks, do not increase, we hope that in the next law they will be completely abolished, while foreign drinks, import drinks, increase excise duties, which means that it is the protection of domestic production. The DSS will accept if not in this, then in the next law on the production of alcohol, i.e. brandy and beverages, that for ethyl alcohol for the production of alcoholic beverages increases excise duties or that the price is fully taxed at a higher level, because it is the protection of domestic production. Then, non-alcoholic drinks of domestic production, in any case, release excise duty, which the DSS greets, as domestic production is increasing. Not only does the DSS welcome, it will be welcomed by all Serbian peasants, especially Uzicans, who have large quantities of fruit that failed last year, and therefore this will be welcomed by anyone who has at least one plum in their backyard. As for oil and oil products, however, the government has in some way balanced it, as it is said, because of our national company, because it has released excise oil and oil production. This means that it will help our oil and oil exports abroad, while at the same time fighting on the domestic market. Normally, our DSS encourages our national company to try to hit prices, especially in the spring period, not come, simply by increasing production, so we will be able to increase the revenues of our national company. There is a concern that foreign companies will be able to raise the price compared to the price of our oil industry. This is inconclusive anyway, because it is well known if foreign companies raise the price, normally, production will be higher in ours and consumption will be higher, faster capital rotation, normally there is a higher profit. The DSS supports this bill of excise duty, and above all as a doctor, from the point of view of its profession, because I believe that cigarette excises should be increased. I may be resented by many smokers this time because there are two million in Serbia, but I will explain to them that it is in their interest. We need to know that the ingredients of tobacco smoke have a very high carcinogenic fact. Unfortunately, this carcinogenic fact not only applies to smokers, but later there is a change in the genetic structure of that personality, in the sense that oncogenics can be transmitted to offspring and thus we get, unfortunately, children who will be predisposed tomorrow for many malignancies, most often lung, cancer, and cardiovascular diseases. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you must know that simply low-quality cigarettes have up to ten times the carcinogenic fact. I think this tobacco excise money should be given for health care, for children and for the fight against smoking. It's in the interest of, above all, smokers, because smokers need to know that they create around them, induce so-called. Passive smokers. Once again we need to know that when children see parents smoking, they induce to smoke. Therefore, gentlemen of Parliament, we cannot go to foreign financial companies such as Philip Morris and others, because even if we have sold the market, cheap labour, cheap raw materials, we cannot sell our people, too, to sell bad cigarettes; because, better yet, more expensive cigarettes are here; that is why the government has done this way, this is not how the poor layer is protected, but the excise money can be given for milk, bread and other things. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2165	As MP Slobodan Vukovic gave up the debate, the People's MP, Hranislav Peric, followed by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the debate on several laws has been united, I will talk about the Excise Act and the Law on Arms Tax. The aim of this law is to fill the deficit in the budget. Our opinion is that no conditions have been created for any collection affected by the state. In order to be able to raise prices previously, we need to bear in mind the economy, return workers to production, employ all capacities, place agriculture in a level playing field with other production branches, raise agricultural product prices to a certain level, because agricultural product prices are so low that they cannot cover the cost of production. When the full state of Serbia is seen, it is not the time for any collection, because what is proposed in the excise law will directly affect the price increase of all products, and that will ultimately be paid by all consumers. Does this mean he's going to raise his salary to the workers and pensions of the pensioners? It is clear to us that the budget is large and that expenditure in the budget is higher than income, but we thought that the budget deficit would be covered by the increase in production, the increase in exports and the export of agricultural products, and the budget deficit would have to be covered by citizens of Serbia through increased excise duties on fuel, coffee, drink etc. As we increase the excise on fuel, we'll try to charge the farmers everything again. If you think you're going to help farmers with 30 gallons of oil per hectare, you're wrong. On average, it looks like this to you: namely, three acres on average of 30 liters is 90 liters; one agricultural household spends at least 300 or 400 liters, which means that 90 liters will pay at a regressed price and the rest at a more expensive price for farmers. There is a regressed oil in the oil, but what about the regressed gasoline used for farm processing, because gasoline is used for cultivators, lawnmowers, the irrigation engine, etc., but this is not what the promoter took care of. The proposal is the most important thing in the budget from the increase in excise duties, which is 17, almost 18 billion. In translation, this means that about 18 billion in the budget were planned to develop agriculture, and that money is needed through an increase in oil and gasoline prices to provide Serbian citizens. There's a different story about the gun-holding tax. The taxes on hunting weapons are lifted and that's fine. He shouldn't have been introduced, and he's never paid before. With this release, we have not freed anyone, because you've increased your gun-holding tax 2.5 times, and these are mostly the same people holding both guns and guns. The hunter's gun and gun holder has so far paid 1,800 dinars for a gun and a gun, and now he's paying, as proposed, 2,000 dinars for a gun alone. Second, in a few years' time, you pay as much as he costs. What proceeds you can make with a gun you can't carry, it can only stand in the closet. This increase could have increased 50% from 900 dinars and was at the most 1,350 dinars, but it is likely that real increases would not be enough to fill the budget. In the end, I want to point out one more time that we don't need to introduce all this. I don't think it's time and there are other jobs to be done. What about business, privatisation, agriculture? Citizens in Serbia have a hard time living. People don't have money, and they're gonna have a hard time putting up with any kind of hoarding.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2167	The People's Messenger Branislav Stevanovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Sredoje Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2168	Ladies and gentlemen, as Luna said, the public of Serbia will think it's a radical. Since I first showed up at the pay phone, I'd like to introduce myself first. I am Stevanović Branislav, a National MP from Lazarevec. You've probably heard about Lazarevec, from the Colubary Battle to this October, enough, and besides, I want to tell you that Lazarec is famous for mining and energy. The speakers before me said a lot about these bill proposals and I'd like to make some brief comments and any suggestions. But there's no suggestion here, so to speak. The suggestion would be that this law is not proposed at all. However, I will give some brief consideration to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax on Use, Sticking and Wearing Goods and the Proposal for a Law on Excises. As far as this first proposal is concerned, it is said that the reasons for the law being passed are general conditions in the country, that it threatens the very carrying of arms itself. I don't think that's a big reason. The reason is that it is seen here to get as deep in the pocket as possible, even the average citizen of Serbia. That says the fact that with 900 dinars, as much as the annual gun tax, is now increasing to 2,000 dinars. The second reason is certainly the financial effect that needs to be achieved in order to fill this poor budget of ours as much as possible. I welcome this gesture, which these laws want to take to rich people as much money as possible, to get into our budget, but I have a big problem. I appreciate Mr. Minister's wish to do this, however, he would have done a bigger thing if, on a proposal from the Assembly, he had passed a law on the origin of the property. A real law on the origin of property to be examined... He has already launched a campaign against Karic to return the extra profit to the state budget. However, this law on the origin of property would have the right effect to examine those who in a year, two, three enormous sums of money acquired. Besides Karic, we certainly have a lot of karics who have also acquired a great fortune in a very short time. I know this property origin law would certainly have full support, however, I doubt the previous ones in power would support it. The following laws, which would also be more urgent than all the seven laws we received as a proposal, are the Labour Act and the Privatisation Act. The labour law has totally disproved a worker in Serbia, so it would be easier to privatise in this society, and this was mainly based on some bewitched triangle in which Vlahovic, Cedomir Jovanovic, then Mr Cvetkovic, who is the director of the Privatisation Agency, committed abnormal robberies in this society. The product is that over 300 families were found on the street without food and without minimum existence. I think these laws are certainly far more important than these laws that we are discussing today and that the predecessors have said a lot before me. Next, the energy law. In particular, I would stress that Elektroprivreda should in no way be privatised, for the reason we have the Romanian case – they cannot be removed from the situation they entered by selling parts of their electricity. I'm a member of the Privatisation Committee, and we had a meeting with the Privatisation Agency, and we made one conclusion that this privatisation law should come to the Assembly as soon as possible, for consideration. I'm going back to the laws we're discussing today. The real reason for the adoption of these laws is certainly to achieve a financial effect: 71 billion dinars, which would fit into the state budget. However, these laws will certainly put the poor most at risk. There's been a lot of talk about this talk about gasoline, oil, cigarettes. I don't think it was necessary to touch the poor man, to get in his pocket, and that's the minimum of pleasure in this society. It is said to be a smaller percentage of the grey economy, however, the grey economy will certainly have a bigger expansion because people will be forced, especially small traders will have to cope in various ways. It is stated here – in case these laws are not passed, fishing will be endangered. I don't know if Mr Dinkic is fishing or not, but mostly I know that they've been rowing for four years without helms and now they don't have the right to choose. Therefore, they are expected to lose in the next presidential election.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2169	The word of the messenger of the people is Sredoiah Michael. He's giving up. The word has the People's MP Miroslav Martic, and let the MP Dusan Prorokovic be prepared. National MP Miroslav Martic gives up. Dusan Prophetic gives up. The People's Messenger Milan Veselinović has the word, and then the People's Messenger Nadica Momirov. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals will not support a set of these laws because today, as well as in previous months, we are discussing something that is not important at all and is not a burning problem for Serbian citizens, but rather we are still making efforts to put as much pressure on Serbian citizens as possible by adopting a new set of laws, where taxes and excise duties are increasing, or a new harress on Serbian citizens. Another reason why we do not trust Finance Minister Dinkic, as well as Mr Labus, who represent the G17 Plus group, lies with Dinkic, for example. The five-octobar revolutionaries, or the October 5th strike poet, who simply entered the largest institution, the NBJ, along with the escort, with the Kalashnikovs, automatic rifles and socks on his heads, and without any public handover, was usurped by the NBJ. How are we supposed to trust this finance minister now? Do we have a reason for that? No, I don't. I would particularly say of Mr. Labus, who was Deputy Prime Minister, led a macroeconomic policy, that with his imports of vital goods to citizens, he damaged the entire production in the Republic of Serbia, importing pig from Brazil, apples from Spain, and thus damaged Serbia's economy, or agriculture in our country. This set of laws that you have proposed today was to come to order after the debate on the Law on Privatisation and the Labour Act. With your Privatisation Act, you have left hundreds of thousands of workers out of work, so the standard and purchasing power of citizens are minimal. You adopt laws like this, which provide only for new violence and a new harrass for citizens of Serbia. For the sake of the public, although it has already been said, I will introduce the citizens of Serbia to what awaits them with the adoption of such laws. The first law says that the tax on financial transactions is reduced, in fact, predicting that this year's tax on financial transactions is reduced by around 2,800,000 dinars, and in 2005, by abolishing the transaction tax, to ease the burden of four billion dinars. That's impossible because there's no description of which transactions would be reduced by such a tax. As far as excise duties are concerned, it is evident that citizens simply have their hands in their pocket again, because with these taxes, or excises, every family is affected. Simply, each family's budget in Serbia will be damaged by as many excise duties. You increase excise duties on all products of life interest to citizens, starting with excise duties on coffee, tobacco, alcohol, motor gasoline, diesel mountains, simply at all. You are increasing your excise duties to everything, and you are forgetting the power of citizens and at what level is the standard of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, we have also made sure that you have increased taxes for all good, and even what is necessary for a citizen. You symbolically reduced the tax, for example, on cars up to 2,000 cubic centimetres, and at the same time the last items – over 2,000 cc's, were increased enormously. It means that you will collect more funds, and at the same time damage mainly agricultural producers and private entrepreneurs, who have such means of transport that they use for their basic work. When we talk about the arms tax, gentlemen, I'm one of those guys who's hunting. I've been working, a hunter, but a radical who respects all the standards of sports and love for animals, means I respect the code of conduct of hunters. Well, isn't it enough for one hunter to have two hunting weapons and be free of that tax? In fact, he's been released before and now no one's been released. But there are also those hunters who abuse, such as your former Minister of Agriculture Vesenov, who may be in a drunken state in poaching and committed a misdemeanor in hunting. However, you know that there are between 90,000 and 100,000 hunters in Serbia. We have not freed them from any taxes, no taxes, and you know that there are about 490,000 people in Serbia who own weapons, short weapons for personal safety, or a gun and a revolver. That's where we increased two-and-a-half times our taxes. You, gentlemen, have entered 490,000 families again into their family budget, and simply this way contribute to the sale of guns for a bagatel and that dedicated production in the Red Flag falls due to these personal security taxes. As for cigarettes, you saw that all kinds of cigarettes were taxed. A predecessor from the government spoke about how he would recommend that no one smokes anymore, but we forget, since your little sales tax budget is, if we were to lift your taxes on cigarettes, gasoline, alcohol, weapons, etc. Then I don't think we'd have anywhere to fill your budget and work. In the end, I think these laws are very burdensome for the citizens of Serbia and that they should simply not be accepted. I can't help but look at the exposure that my fellow citizen Mr. Omeragic had here yesterday, who mentioned here on several occasions – Sandzak region, Sandzak region or Sandzak region. Please, gentlemen of the government, yesterday no one found fit to answer him, did you really carry out the regionalisation of this Serbia, although some of your party, or the parties that make up power, said in their pre-election campaign that they would regionalise Serbia. I have not read anywhere, in any legal act, that there is a region of Sandzak and we Serbs living there are very concerned about these statements and behaviours, especially authorities that do not respond to such phenomena as are new in Serbia's political life. I don't know, since Mr. Labus, a representative of the government, or Dinkic and Labus were all campaigns in Novi Pazar, where they ate hot kevapci with these gentlemen, perhaps they secretly allowed it to be called the Sandzak region, especially regional television, as they call it in Novi Pazar, and it is seen in several municipalities, which is a new disturbance for Serbs in those areas. I think there's a lot more to say there, and it wouldn't be too much to put such a point on the agenda of this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2171	The People's Messenger Nadika Momirov has the word. He's not here. () Then, Messenger of the people, Zarko Korach. The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic. He's not here. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sreto Peric, and let the People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak be prepared; let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this pay phone has already been abused several times in the last two or three days; radicals have been told that they are not in favour of returning their money for the rebirth of Serbia, then, our presidential candidate has been told that it is against 80,000 to 100,000 hunters, which is absolutely not true. We are the people's representatives here, chosen to advocate more and work harder for all of us, and for our fellow citizens who have chosen us as ambassadors, it will be better. A certain group of MPs expressed their intention and desire to try whether with an average monthly salary in the Republic of Serbia of 12,000 could survive. I don't think the citizens of Serbia would be happy if we would accept a salary of 5,000 dinars, because they certainly can't survive out of 12,000 dinars. Our goal and function of all delegates in the National Assembly, and before all the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is to make sure that our citizens' standard of living is as high as possible and that the salaries are not 12,000 dinars, but much more than that. Serbia has resources, it has opportunities and should be done. However, it is difficult, when we pass laws that are not effective, which are in practice not enforceable and for whose enforcement, or monitoring the enforcement of these laws, many more workers, many administrations need. A heavy burden could be borne by small businesses and farmers, or peasants in the state of Serbia. However, these current intrusions will be very difficult. There are not a small number of small businesses that started their companies 10 or 15 years ago and went into private business, now out of these companies, because they can't take it anymore, the standard of living is small, it's small purchasing power. Their companies have lost their jobs and they want to find jobs with other colleagues who can still partially fight the standard of living, or the state it is in Serbia. The government has not yet decided when the fiscal registers will be applied, i.e. to be introduced into practice, to live. This should be done as soon as possible, but we need to see if we wait for the value added tax law, so we can set it up together programically and solve it. It is often heard from this pay phone, when Serbian radicals bring amendments to certain amendments -- why didn't you bring those laws before? We couldn't bring them because we weren't even in power. We cannot seriously prepare for the work of this assembly, consult our constituents, our fellow citizens, have a conversation with them, and prepare ourselves to be told - that you have not passed this law before and that the amendments are being submitted for reasons to crash some houses. Two days ago, I was under the impression that there was a law on construction and adaptation here on the agenda, not a law on conflict of public interest. Each amendment has its own meaning, the essence and we Serbian radicals will not be satisfied if one of the ministers comes out and says - we have adopted three amendments. The number itself means nothing to us, and the essence means a lot more to us than that. We can also be satisfied with the adoption of one or 35 amendments, all depends on what is achieved, or how much the quality of this law is improved. On one occasion, we heard a distinguished MP here say that he was bitterly resented and even showed a high degree of anxiety, because MP Branislav Rankic mentioned Bor, and MP Darko Glisic mentioned Ub. I will take the opportunity, whenever there is a need for this, to mention also Love, and Mali Zvornik, and Krupanj, and Loznica and many other cities in Serbia, for the reason that this is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So if there's an objective need and an opportunity to mention these cities, that's what I'm going to do. However, the peak was yesterday when the finance minister said, quote, "I intend to stick to the topic as well as the MPs of the SRS." It was particularly interesting when he said, "I don't care how much I'm going to be a minister." Of course we realized he doesn't care how many ministers he's going to be, when he proposes such laws as we have yesterday and today on the agenda. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act, the minister said it was introduced reportedly to address the effects of earthquakes in the Kolubar district. It's not supposed to be, he's really been introduced because of it, and if there were abuses in practice, it's possible. I am aware that MPs from that district are committed to establishing a congregation committee that will examine the purpose and purpose of spending these funds. However, it did not give up the inflow stemming from this law, but remained until 31 December 2004. I guess the minister, along with the Prime Minister, designed his mandate by 31 December 2004. Excises that are abolished are eliminated mainly on those products that do not enter products that are much more frequently purchased: an excise on the oil used for lighting. I hope that there are very few households in the state of Serbia at this time that are thus lighting up their living, business or other rooms. But there is a significant increase in excise duty on the widest number of daily items of life needed by each of our citizens. Yesterday, in an explanation of the bill's proposal, the minister said he expects a reduction in the grey economy in the transport of motor oil and oil, for the purpose of abolishing excise duties. I accept that, that's true, but a certain group of goods will be re-entered into the gray economy area, certainly, we are against it, by introducing such high excise duties on certain products. In the event of an increase in these excise duties, we should not expect a reduction in the grey economy but a sure increase, which we are certainly against. We're saying that as much of the traffic goes back to normal flows as possible and that we try, as someone said in some countries it's seven or ten percent, to reduce as much as possible. As for the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, there is also a big difference in motor boats that have a length of 15 metres, regardless of which purposes they use and what they are for. I don't think it's right. Not a set of these tax laws, as someone said, will only hit layers that are richer. It would be good to do so, however, it will certainly hit a large number of Serbian citizens who are certainly not that rich, but will certainly have a car. The standard of one Serbian citizen cannot only be measured by that car, which may happen, though, that belongs to the category of these cars for which a high level of taxation is foreseen. Then, we always call for help from our farmers, or peasants. Indeed, we do so very often only from this pay phone or declarative, and in practice very little seems on this plan. We know that agricultural work is now going, that is, spring seed season, and it is certain that agricultural producers have not yet received the oil they need to process their land. It is not known what will happen to the price of their products, whether they will be guaranteed, whether they will be stimulated to deal with this production or to engage in other jobs. However, the previous trade minister also said that wheat is not a strategic product and that it is not a product that is profitable, or competitive for production, so we should deal with some other production. That is why we are in a position to import those products for which Serbia was once known and was considered one of the larger and more serious exporters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2173	The People's Messenger Momir Markovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Istvan Takac be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the moment they began to share in this structure of the ministry by party verticals, we expected such laws to be proposed to the National Assembly, and in particular we expected from the political party G17% commission, pardon G17 plus. These days, when I arrived, I watched this Pink show and, believe me, it's very difficult for me to take Minister Dinkic seriously afterwards. However, the laws that Dinkic is proposing to us yesterday must be taken very seriously, as the consequences that these laws will cause will be extremely dangerous and serious. They're leading a new poverty and a new robbery of citizens. Yesterday, Minister Dinkic said he would not collect anything drastically. They're not gonna pick up the needles, and they're not gonna pick up the locomotives, and everything from the needle to the locomotive is just gonna pick up. Here, we must remind the citizens of Serbia of the halabuque that the representatives of these political parties were challenging at the time. Seselj's taxis, which means mobile phone fees, holding and carrying taxes, or goods as you later called it, and the law on financial transactions, which was meant to resolve the damages suffered in the Kolubar County after the earthquake. These were all fees with a limited duration and relatively small amounts. We have to remember that the cell phones were really a luxury back then, that the tax on those cell phones was also relatively low. With DOS coming to power, those fees have become laws with a longer-term fact and taxes that Serbian citizens are paying today. As far as the Financial transaction Tax Act is concerned, we have applied for the law to be abolished, and after that, we have filed the addition of the law in the sense that the law raises funds of 700 million dinars to remedy the consequences of the Hilandar fires, and then abolished. This way, money collected from Serbian citizens is poured directly into the budget and who knows which side they are going to. In addition to the 43 billion that you have failed to cover, there are many more holes, masked holes in the budget, and it is normal to expect to raise funds in this way and patch up the budget, to somehow survive. Speaking to Serbian citizens, and I travel a little more, I have come to the conclusion that, regardless of all these laws you propose and make, corn harvesting is hardly likely to wait for this government in the fall. Yeah, you'll wait, but you won't be in power. (President: Do not throw the speaker away. Here you go. ) I would like to remind you that from these Seselj taxis, besides the other, 58 bridges were repaired after the bombing, hundreds of miles of roads and that the entire settlements were built where at least one part of you were dropped by bombs, especially cluster bombs, and there are settlements where you still can't clean the terrain of the impoverished uranium. After that, here's the fourth year that DOS or changed DOS is in power, I don't know if you can boast of some bridge you've made, unless now Velja Ilic and his capital investments are making something. So, the SRS will be against the adoption of financial transaction laws unless it changes exactly as we have suggested. Next, you said – there will be no significant deterioration in the standard of citizens. Earlier, the excise on motor gasoline was 23.15 dinars, and today it's 27.50 dinars. What do you think, diesel fuel for 16.76 dinars, and before that was 13 dinars, so how is this difference going to spill? The peasant has to model, and he'll pay the excise fee three and some more dinars. At the price of the agricultural product that he brings to the market, this difference must also enter, so that citizens, in the end of the line, will pay all of your taxes. From 19 to 29.5 dinars of cigarette group "A", from 8.5 to 11.52 groups "B", and cigarettes of group "C" from 4 to 9.5 dinars. You've increased over 100%. It's normal, and you won't stop the gray economy until you catch those of you who deal with this gray economy. The jet fuel used to drive aircraft flying on international lines, regular and charter flights. My dear gentlemen, you hereby release all foreign air carriers arriving at the Belgrade airport, and tank their planes here. At the same time, very small flights have from Belgrade airport, still very little, and not so much because the world has not opened up to you, but because you put mostly incompetent people to run this airline, as well as others. As for the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods – the tax on mobile phone was 100 dinars, Djelic came in and turned the tax into a tax of 200 dinars, Dinkic came in and raised the same tax to 300 dinars. Are these Kostunica's, Dinkic's, or whose taxes they are now, since they were Seselj's taxes. At the same time, yesterday, Minister Dinkic lied here and stayed alive, he says – a tax on a prepaid card is not charged. How you don't charge when it says it's 10% of the value of the card. Therefore, let not the citizens of Serbia who use the prepaid that Dinkic will not peel off their skin in this way. He's just taking a little different. Another scam, which refers to passenger car tax: firstly, passenger cars owned by private people and passenger cars for legal persons. Then you raised to 600 dinars, for example, for vehicles up to 1,150 cubic metres, and now you're detaching legal vehicles with this tax, and then it's going to be for private persons of 500 dinars, and I'm talking about this 1,150 cubic vehicle, so the cheapest vehicle and vehicle are the least cubics that are mainly driven by Serbian citizens, and for legal persons it's going to be 3,000. I expect you to pass again very quickly some law on amending the law, which will equalise legal and physical persons, but not by taking down legal persons, but by raising individuals to 3,000, which will go on forever, that is, until late autumn, when there will be parliamentary elections. Another very dangerous thing: all these laws have a feedback. Since parliamentaryism, in no country in the world, except Serbia since the DOS came to power, there have been no laws with feedback, with a retroactive fact. Here you have a law that will be passed in April, which will apply from January 1st. It's amazing that you're getting used to what you don't get from January 1st 2000 or January 1st 1950, you're going to raise a lot more money.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2175	Here you go, replica, Mr. Prophetovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2176	You mentioned the government, you mentioned the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2177	Excuse me, Mr. Prophetovic, the parties of the ruling coalition and the government have also been mentioned, of course you have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2178	Very briefly, since I don't think you understand anything, I don't believe. You understand everything better than you purposely spoke like this. Let me explain some things to you. First of all, what's wrong with the fact that an excise on kerosene is lifted? Could Serbia be a country that will live on transit transport, both for ports and for Belgrade Airport? Do foreign airlines land in Bucharest, Budapest, do passengers to the Middle East take over there? They're taking over. Why? Because kerosene is more expensive in Serbia than in Hungary and Romania. It's logical that we take one of these steps. It is in our interest to function with Belgrade Airport to make it more traffic for passengers, goods and services. Normally, more taxes will be paid from this major traffic, so there will be more inflow into our budget than transiting foreign passengers. Normally, we're going to cut the price of kerosene, because, let's say, the JAT's plane ticket to London is more expensive than British Airways' plane ticket. It's normal for this to speed up the price reduction of JAT, to fly more with it. What's wrong with the suspension of excise oil? There's nothing wrong. It is normal, the excise is lifted, it will cost less to heat hospitals, schools, much more money will remain in our budget for both salaries and other funds used in health and education. What's wrong with the fact that the excise on domestic alcoholic beverages doesn't change, and for foreign alcoholic beverages, it increases? Absolutely nothing wrong. We want our distilleries to have more production, that our fruit producers produce more fruit, that no more plums are imported from Romania, and apples from Spain. There's nothing wrong with that. I want to tell you that there is no state whose basic income... (President: Mrs. Radeta, please don't throw the speaker away. I also warned you about the previous speaker. )......................................................................................................... Not four things: tobacco tax and tobacco products, oil tax and oil derivatives, alcohol tax and gambling. There is no state in the world, find me an example, and it is normal for the government to take these steps. Whether the government lasts to harvest corn or not, it'll show the results, let's wait for the first hundred days.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2179	I thank you, Mr. Prophet. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic. Just say the article, for the MPs, since you can see that...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2180	Article 100, he misunderstood me and interpreted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2181	Excuse me, by article 100, what? Please, without throwing away, you've already caused one replica by throwing up a little while ago. Excuse me, Mr. Markovic, by article 100, for what?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2182	Article 99. Mr. Prophetic misunderstood me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2183	You want me to just read the MPs, it might not be clear to them. Article 99: "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. "So it refers to a speaker, not a replica. Please, call the right member, be kind, we must be equal to everyone. Either call the right member or wait for a chance for a new replica. Mr. Markovic called for Article 100: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. "Here, explain to the MPs why dignity is not respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2184	First of all, Mr. Prophetovich, I didn't say in any word that the state shouldn't introduce taxes on alcoholic beverages, on cigarettes, I said there shouldn't be this kind of tax to introduce. Secondly, I said that the excise on kerosene used in international traffic is not paid. You predicted not to pay. You didn't predict that sports clubs that use that plane fuel to train our people don't pay. Third, as for the corn harvest, I'm sure, and you'll see when the parliamentary elections are sometime late in the fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2185	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a People's MP... Please don't throw it away. Once again, I remind you of Article 99(3), whenever MPs win, often interfere with the MPs of their own party. A single replica was created earlier, as one party MP threw out an MP to his party, confused him, and we had a problem all together. So, please, because of all of you, we will strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Istvan Takac has the word; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Natasha Jovanovic. Mr. Takatch has given up. Here you are, Miss Jovanovic, and let the MP Igor Mirovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2186	You're trying so hard, Mr. Markovic, to be kind, it's really hearty. Do not abuse the position you are in and honor all sorts of things to colleagues of Radeti and the MPs of the SRS. Take care of these fliers from your ranks, I mean the parliamentary groups. The theme is very serious and today, if it were the order and the finance minister understood his role properly, he was here all the time in a bench where the ministers and this government that was elected in such a way, but he, faced with bitter truth about himself, about his godfather and other mob and criminal ties, did not just want to be present in the course of the debate... We will see if it will appear in the discussion of these three laws in particular, we want a lot directly, we MPs of the SRS, to tell him more, and that citizens hear it and citizens mostly know who Mladjan Dinkic is and how he became finance minister. At the exhibition Vojislav Kostunica, against whom we were Serbian radicals as a winning party in the December 28th elections, it was absolutely clear that this government would resort to something called an increase in excise duties, a direct attack on Serbia's poor citizens anyway, to their terrible position in economic and social terms. It will show very quickly, almost in a few days, through an increase in diesel fuel and gasoline prices. In order to make it clearer for the citizens before that new economic blow hits them, we will say that the price of gasoline is approximately, as we of the SRS have calculated, about 56,00 dinars, and the price of diesel fuel is 49,00 dinars. Some DSS MPs, from other parties, who don't know anything about it, have dared to say they won't, but probably the producers and sellers will give up parts of their income, so the price will remain the same. It's so nebulous and it's obvious that these people have no idea about anything, when it's known that the state is the majority owner of NIS, Southpetrol. By giving up our profits on the relationship of the manufacturer, the seller would give himself up, and then we would have to service it from the budget, which is unreal, which is not if it wasn't developed, but is devastating, precisely for the few million people you're throwing dust at in the eyes of these legal projects, and who are thinking about what to eat, where to find a job. Where is the development policy you promised and where is it – I will have to quote Mladjan Dinkic who said it in the pre-election campaign – "reforming the fiscal public spending system according to the real opportunities of the economy"? The economy is currently not in any developmental options, because it boasts (as unfortunate as the whole environment is that it is at the place of Finance Minister by the choice of Vojislav Kostunica) that the external trade deficit will remain at 4.5 billion dollars this year as well. You know that old people's saying - what's smart about being ashamed of... Well, I'm still not telling you, and maybe there's evidence for that other part of my claim when it comes to Mladjan Dinkic. It could be seen by his behavior, not just these days, and these are claims by some of his coalition partners. As for the unemployed, developmental programmes of the newly formed government, it is obvious that none of this will happen. It is obvious that the government and Dinkic themselves did not have good intentions when it comes to citizens of Serbia who are in a terrible, difficult social situation, because if they had a good intention not to increase the price of diesel fuel and gasoline, they would not be throwing dust at people in the eyes of such laws, but would significantly reduce taxes on the transport of services, in which we calculate electricity, which is the largest cost of a huge number of households in Serbia. I have to tell you that only in Kragujevac, the city where I come from, where absolutely nothing works in a commercial sense, some average debt of the population for electricity is more than 20,000 dinars, and some MPs from the ranks of the positioning parties have been racing these days, even though they were completely exposed by Alexander Vukic to prove that they can live on the 12,600 dinars of the average profit, which few Kragujevcan have. The increase in revenue, and the reduction in expenditure in the budget, should have been the primary intensities of this government, but not to increase revenues in this way, but to create conditions for this country to produce, to create a new value, to employ workers and to allow people to earn money for themselves and for their family. Avoiding and tax evasion for Mladjan Dinkic, although these are two different concepts, underlined yesterday an equal sign of 50%, and some of his colleagues today confirmed it again, perhaps bigger and perhaps smaller. There are even the greatest chances that it is much bigger, because Dinkic himself is connected to the members who are prone to tax evasion, to various machinations, to steal through affairs in the electricity sector, which is the case of the Survey Committee, and that is indeed one problem that this government cannot face, neither Dinkic himself is, in his godfatherly and mafia ties, because in the case of evasion, that is, the avoidance of taxes in this country has already been bought there. Through much sharper mechanisms, through disciplined and unpromised power, especially when it comes to the finance minister, it can and must be resolved. You gentlemen didn't think of a reduction in wastefulness when you were setting the 2004 budget with a deficit of 45 billion dinars, and now you're coming here with a story that I don't know how well and most important it is to get rid of excise oil. On the other hand, according to a system of various import and other commercial lobbies, yesterday we were told here that the government had the best intentions when it proposed such laws for wide layers of the population. So I'm asking you, if you've already had such intentions and if you haven't reduced the sales tax of services, when it comes to electricity, communals, other basic provisions of life, then why haven't you reduced the income from agriculture, when you know it's our strategic branch in a situation where the entire economy is collapsed? Why didn't some group of MPs come out of your ranks with such a bill? Because you're not interested in it. You got hold of directorial functions, boards of directors, ministerial functions, deputy, assistants, and what happens next to citizens, you are not interested in it, because you are absolutely the same, and now that you are doing it much faster, then even worse, than Božidar Djelic in 2001, when the first set of tax laws was proposed to the Assembly and then the assembly majority adopted it, and in that majority there was the DSS. Because the people are hungry, because there is no work, because in the ranks of this government, besides Dinkic, many other compromised personalities are unable to do anything in the midst of which they came from, not only will you not, as Mr Markovic said, welcome as the Government of this year's corn harvest (or perhaps you will survive through buying MPs, through machinations), but the first signal that you have made a terrible mistake when such a government decided to be the victory of our candidate in the presidential elections and your inability and lack of hearing for the present picture of Serbia, Serbia which is poor, Serbia in which the people are hungry, Serbia in which citizens have been watching from the very morning to feed, train their children and which does not mean anything that you have abolished the excise on the vine oil, when they know that the prices of bread and everything else will increase through the excise duties on diesel fuel. That is why, as I said, it was obviously from the exhibition Vojislav Kostunica, a very bad past, your future is completely uncertain and certainly difficult, and the present is for the citizens of Serbia with you in power, and especially with Dinkic, as finance minister, who was the choice of Vojislav Kostunica, which is first and foremost devastating for the party who wanted such a choice for the prime minister himself, very, very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2187	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Replica, Mr. Ristivojevic. After. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Only to inform the MPs of the people, so after the replica, the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, and Igor Mirovic. Thank you. [[After break – 15,25]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. At first, I ask you to establish the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their cards. Since the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 94 MPs are present in the hall, we continue our work. The word has the People's MP Igor Mirovic, and let the People's MP Milorad Mircic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very few words in favor of the criticism of these laws offered by the finance minister. I expected the finance minister, and he comes from the G17 Plus party, which, like him, presents himself as an expert organisation, in the short term, and that is this deadline and this period more than a month since the government was formed, to offer one comprehensive reform. It may be a harsh word of reform, for it may be imprecise, since it is only taken up by individual representatives in the National Assembly. Maybe it's a better word - a comprehensive change in the existing tax system in our country. I expected us to discuss this very quickly, perhaps even during April, the value added tax. I expected to discuss the analysis of the introduction of the tax registers, the register register in the economy, because yesterday it expired as a deadline for the introduction of the register, and not only on the appearance of the technical detail, but also on the whole set of issues arising from this very sensitive issue. I must remind you that a very small number of those who have fully implemented the obligation and obtained the register for one single reason: the level of sales tax to be applied is absolutely unacceptable and will bring many owners of independent shops, catering shops in a very difficult position. I guess that's why they hesitate to introduce the register. That tax is 20% and is the highest in the environment. Secondly, I expected that, in the context of the change in the tax system, we would discuss the sales tax on immovable property. The tax today is 5%. It is also, according to my information, the highest in this part of Europe. In some countries there are 3%, and in some, even 2%, it contributes to being large so-called. The tax ejaculation, a large number of those who actually avoid paying taxes in such a way that they do not report real estate contracts and thus the government's register remains poorer by a very significant amount of funds. In the last term of the National Assembly, the law was passed. It turned out, and the minister had to bear in mind, that the high tax rate of 5% led to a fall in income compared to real opportunities. When it comes to the financial transaction tax, I expected it would not be delayed, and he was nominated here as 1 January 2005, when the financial transaction tax will be completely abolished. The tax was introduced at the time of the country's complete blockade, almost before the bankruptcy of the financial system that stemmed from the blockade in the period from 1992 to 2000, and is not the usual system tax law. He's kind of an auxiliary tax code. Developed democratic countries do not have such a law within their tax system, and I expected these great reformers to propose that the law be abolished. Instead, we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods with very small, cosmetic changes that should mean the willingness of ruling parties, and in particular the G17 parties, to bring out some kind of more serious change of the tax system, the kind of change we all want: therefore, the reduction of tax rates, the spread of the tax base and the simplification of the tax system in our country. Instead, we have cosmetic changes. Also, the Financial transaction Tax Act foresees little relief for a small number of legal entities to be covered by this law, and the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act offers what I was talking about when Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica had his opening statement before the election of the new government. He's the one who announced the pick-ups. So what this government is going to stage, when it comes to economic policy in our country, are gatherings. In addition to those that will arise based on the increase in excise duties, electricity collection is expected, too, in the function of filling the budget. This, on the other hand, could mean that the government's estimates in that part are very clear: budget revenues in this year will not be at the level of expectations and some additional measures need to be filled in. How? You can see by increasing the price of cigarettes, alcohol, fuel and electricity. This means that the government has not defined that economic policy is leading by strengthening the potential of economic operators, strengthening all those segments that were in a negative trend from 2000 to 2003, and of course up to 2000, has already calculated by simple mathematics that the accumulation of those products where demand is unchanged, even when their price is changing upwards, can contribute to increasing the budget and can fill in budget gaps. It's a very dangerous road because it's muddy. In the first wave, he may generate additional revenues in the Serbian budget, but will result in further impoverishment of the population. In one part of the economy that does business at the border of profitability and rentability, we heard about it today from fellow MPs, due to the gathering, will bring additional problems and, if judged in the morning, and in the morning is known, the government that stands on the political scene with the crowds, which has no other instruments in economic policy, will certainly be short of breath. Therefore, as an SRS MP, I will not vote for the proposed laws. Since day one, we have criticised the concept not only of tax but of total reforms in the economic system, in the country's economic system. It is clear that the proposed laws, which were presented in public as a continuation of the great, important, miraculous economic policy of the ruling parties, are only a cosmetic change that will not bring anything new to the citizens, except for the collection.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2190	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, followed by Goran Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these three proposals in the field of tax policy remind us overwhelmingly of that already many times in this assembly told story, recognizable in the people, about the bridge and the turkey; what the people would say – what you get on the bridge you lose on the kepria. Under this system, simplistically looking, the government comes out with these proposals by making it possible, in one part, to make tax reliefs, and in the other part, by balancing the total budget, or the state of the budget, to bring in some new burdens. We heard different defenses and criticisms of these proposals, from those hearty, about the members of the association, how my distinguished colleague with a specific emphasis said – hunters, to those from the automotive industry, well-known opportunity, but forgot one thing. In addition to the fact they presented, it would be easier for members (as they said, it is 80,000 members of individual associations), they forgot to say that they would impose daily additional tax expenditures on those same hunters, which will be viewed and read in a gas station automatic. When a man looks at a burden that would in the name of a holding tax, for example. Hunting weapons per month or a year paid, and on the other hand the daily tax, pulling money out of your pocket, so ask members of those associations what they would rather accept, whether daily you are pulling excise taxes of money out of your pocket, or whether they continue monthly to pay you for every weapon or weapon that's over number two. But, well, anyway, this pay phone is used to promote the so-called. a populist economy, but let's see how the minister pictured it, how it will balance budgets, more specifically, how it will compensate for the budget deficit that was obvious when the budget was adopted. He imagined by increasing excise duties on motor gasoline, diesel fuel, cigarettes, import juices, natural rakia and viny will compensate for the 45 billion deficit. He stated that this way of extra taxation will generate around three billion dinars, but he did not say the consequences. The consequences are also very clear to those who understand themselves in the economy – that when they are passed, such proposals and laws must be in the light of the laws of united courts. The minister said fully responsible from this pay phone that he was able to agree with the NIS not to increase the price of fuel based on an increase in excise duties. On the basis of which parameters was this agreement reached? Where are the economic legalitys? If it is used as an argument to the fact that now the head man of NIS is a representative of a parliamentary group whose set of circumstances also belongs to the minister, then these are loose arguments. Because what we're going to do tomorrow is if the director changes, or if the board of directors makes a different decision, and they're going to have to, gentlemen, because keeping prices at this level, not increasing prices due to the increase in excise duties, is causing consequences in the NIS. The minister either did not want to or forgot to say that he recently took six billion incomes from the NIS through his regulation and decision, which would have been said in plain language by his own free will. How? The Serbian government regulation, which is behind the proposal by the finance minister and made it loud and clear to the NIS Management Board – is for the needs of budget funds. And what are the consequences? Catastrophics. First, you can't go on a variant with some certainty that you'll reduce the margins of the processor. It cannot go to the variant that the internal costs of the NIS will be reduced to satisfy as many Serbian residents as possible. Gentlemen, don't lose sight of the NIS being privatized, as soon as possible. In what state is NIS, when it sells, so will the budget to be incomed. If we destroy it now, and inevitably this way we go consciously to destroy the NIS, we won't be able to sell it well, we won't benefit from it. That's something to take care of. The easiest way to get out and tell the citizens of Serbia is to tell the story – we make it easier for you to pay taxes, to cut taxes on boats up to 15 meters long, not to say – you boaters who have boats up to 15 meters long will have to go to a gas station, what we have freed you from, to give three or four times more, and every day. Secondly, it's a little unclear how an oversight was made, in addition to such capable professional services from one expert group, because you agreed when you formed a particular ministry, to introduce an increase in the excise duty on import juices. That excise didn't even exist. How are you going to increase something that didn't even exist? First, I guess you have to pass the law, suggest that excises be introduced on import juices, and then increase the level of these excises. But it's understandable for us Serbian radicals, which is why this kind of oversight; for the simple reason that you've been focused and focused on a company that is very dear to you and your heart, which is Coca-Cola. That's the point. You weren't very interested in the consequences of what a disaster you'd have when it comes to investing foreign capital, how interested you were in the interest of the Coca-Cola company. You've excluded her, you've put her in a position of privilege, but that's why you've brought her into an unenviable position and Philip Morris and many of the companies that will open that investment line for you. You don't know that, and you could hear it from the minister who's been removed. He, on the basis of an ex post mind, gave you some lessons; and learn from him, for soon you will be an opposition, just as he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2192	The People's Messenger Goran Jocic has the word, and then the Messenger Zoran Krasic. The remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group is 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2193	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have proposed a set of new tax laws to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. It shows that this government continues to work as well as the previous government, therefore, the policy of continuity, where it is clearly seen that only taxes, excise taxes and taxes are increasing. That's how we have Article 2. The bill, which refers to Article 4 of the existing law, reduces taxis to registration of motor vehicles. Where they shrink, they shrink very little, somewhere from 10 to 20 percent, and where they increase, they refer to the cube from 2,000 to 3,000 and over 3,000, they increase over 50%. Furthermore, we have a new position proposed, where these vehicles belonging to legal persons are taxed at a higher rate, so we have, say, vehicles up to 1,150 cc's belonging to legal persons -- 3,000 dinars are taxes, and vehicles over 3,000 cc's go over 50,000 dinars. We think it's an additional burden on our economy, because that's how the economy operates at the limit of rentability and profitability. As for mobile phones, the government predicted an increase in mobile phone users' properties from 200 to 300 dinars, as well as a postpaid card -- from 200 to 300 dinars. Here we have some promises that something will be exploited. But the important thing is that it was a bad intention. We heard from the legislator that this law, as far as mobile phones are concerned, will be valid until 2005. Like, they'd end it now, rather than go into the budget. But I don't understand things. We adopted the budget in early March, I think on March 3rd, and after a month we have a proposal for this law. Is it possible that something has changed in a month and that the government has already given up on that income? We have a promise that this will last until the end of this year. As for the water facilities, we have here some adjustments when it comes to restaurants, rafts, boat restaurants, where they increase per metre square from 1,500 to 2,250 dinars. The rafts are already paying taxes and they use water instead of the country and probably pay the "Serbians" for the place. So we think this is unnecessary. It could have remained on the existing 1,500 dinars. Next, we have a three-time increase in sports aircraft. We had 60,000, and now we have 180,000, we have 100,000, now we have 300,000. This applies to sports crafts and recreational activities. We think this tax increase would endanger their activities used by sports aircraft, because these aircraft are certainly not so modern and this additional burden will further freeze those involved in sports activities. As far as weapons are concerned, the government explained: "Consulting the social dangers of weapons, for the weapons held in the taxation system, it is proposed to increase the level of taxes, thus also destabilising its attitude, i.e. carrying". As part of military reforms that the government has already undertaken at the federal level, therefore disarmament of the military, here under some strange explanation the government wants to destabilise the holding of weapons among citizens. That sounds a little symptomatic to me. We think that the increase that applies to citizens (900 dinars was for holding, and now increases to 2,000; for carrying it was 4,500, and now increases to 9,000 dinars) is also too big a jump and will additionally burden those companies dealing with the security of the facilities, because you have already charged them extra fees for their vehicles, especially the van of the vehicle over 2,500 cubic metres. As for excise duties, this is where you propose to increase excise duties on cigarettes A, B and C categories. It was proposed that A category be 10.47 dinars, B category 3,02 and C category 5.95. We have a promise that it will be exploited and that it will be two dinars, a dinar and a dinar. But there's bad intentions here again, especially when it comes to the C category of cigarettes, because that's what citizens who aren't quite economically strong smoke. The minister says that the increase in excise duties will not affect price increases, only 0.46%, I believe in the stand, because it is impossible, if 15-20% of excise duties are increased, that this will not affect the price increases of other products.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2194	The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2195	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this set of laws doesn't solve problems the way the government imagined it. In his address to the public, representing these laws, the minister was too vague. He, in fact, did not tell the truth, but, in his position, made it clear to all citizens that he was the government and that, as such, he could do anything. He was deceived in that attitude, for the people did not vote for such a government that is full of people’s troubles. The government is trying to present this group of laws as a pre-election promise that is being fulfilled this way. Once when we Serbian radicals made certain proposals to fill the budget, it was a fam. Remember only when we suggested that a tax be imposed on the mobile phone, then it was no good. Today, regarding this law, the government wants to raise the mobile phone tax from 200 to 300 dinars. It's unacceptable for us, because now the phone has grown into a tool that is no longer a luxury, but serves to do everyday jobs. Today these proposals solve only marketing comments, and that is – we will reduce a certain number of excise duties, and on the other hand to increase the same and thus fill all the gaps in the budget. For example, the excise duty on the oil used for lighting is abolished, and we know that the minimum number of households used for that purpose is a household. As for boat comments, we think that this law is also unnecessary, or that it does not solve questions properly, which is that a boat can be shorter than 15 meters, and that it has a great value in it and represents an exceptional luxury. Our amendments just want us to fix it, if that's what we can say, but basically we're against this set of laws. I've been a hunter since 1968, and I know hunting technology professionally, since I've been doing this job at the National Park "Fruška Gora". As such, I can also give my court, concerning these amendments and additions to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods. Mostly we ordinary hunters own one or two rifles, and with that two-gun arsenal, we can meet all hunting requirements. Everything that's beyond this standard irritates both the hunter and everyone who's tied to hunting and hunting. We know that with two rifles you can go hunting for a tall and low game, which is the basic task of every hunter, that in his hunting ground and in another hunting ground he can use one rifle with broken pipes and one hunting rifle. All that other hunters have is unnecessary, and we know what they look like and what they do, they mainly cause anger, and with their attitude they irritate ordinary hunters. They are the ones who have certain privileges and use these privileges in their own way, which is that, driving by jeeps, they do not adhere to hunting ethics and hunting technologies. With this comment, I would like to contribute that this law was neither necessary, because we hunters have never paid any taxes before, or anything related to hunting weapons. Our amendments give a reason to abolish the payment of taxes on weapons and we will stand up for it. In the case of a Member State of the The bill proposes narrowing the tax on registered weapons, and our amendments eliminate it. On February 25, 2004, we submitted one such proposal, which was to be adopted here by the Assembly, or to comment. You've heard these comments from all our presentations, as members of the SRS. Which you gentlemen have now made a comment on something that is not to be commented on, which is that this law should not have been introduced in this way, because we hunters have neither paid any taxes nor taxes on our weapons, and you are now to be great do what we will not accept. Tomislav Nikolic's comment on hunters was used in an inappropriate way to reduce its presidential value. Don't worry, because all hunters will very much support Tomislav in his presidential candidacy and they will contribute to his election as president of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2196	On what basis are you answering? Baseline? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2197	Since the previous debater probably meant my comment, when I said that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, which is Article 100, would you like another member, is he good to you... So, I would like to say this, that a future president, a candidate for president of a country with 100,000 hunters, you know, I'm from Vojvodina, so we usually talk that way. If it bothers anyone... (President: You've come out for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please concentrate on that. It's not true we didn't pay, I'm a hunter at the Kaq Hunting Society, or Kovilj Budisava. I've got two guns, no more, I've paid taxes. That's how other hunters paid. Secondly, 100,000 hunters are people who take care of animals, wild animals, who feed, who take care of hunting grounds. Therefore, it cannot (no matter what someone else said, and not Mr Nikolic, I would react) so an important population of citizens, call the voters animals. On the contrary, these are the people who take the most care of animals.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2198	People's MP, you've come out to advertise the Rules of Procedure, and you've used rights you don't have under Article 97, which is a replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2199	Madam Chairman, you have injured a member of Rule 32 who regulates what the Vice President of the Assembly should do, one of the vice presidents. You are now chairing and replacing Mr. Markovic. His right, under Article 32(2), is to determine who will replace him. It is illogical that he is even the president of the assembly, and that is not Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic. It is also illogical that when he is not there, Mrs Pop-Lazic, as representative of the largest parliamentary group, does not most democratically chair the assembly. It's not a good thing for you, because if you were familiar with what to do when you replaced Mr. Markovic, you couldn't have done anything like this to a man, a gentleman, or rather, to give the word. If the Third Channel screen said he's called that and he's from that MP group, and we don't know who that man is, I don't know. He came out twice for a pay phone, maybe the chairman called him by his last name and last name, we don't know who he is. So they're supposed to be affirmed, but not like this. Well, he mentions the name of the SRS presidential candidate after such brilliant exposure to the authentic hunter, Mr. Plužarevic, who has otherwise said he is a hunter since 1968. Mr. Plužarevic is not only in those circles, but... And here they show, there are more, thank God, authentic hunters in the ranks of the SRS. Mr. Plužarevic is a man who has been running for many years and taking care of a national park, a national treasure in the municipality of Irig. If it's justified on behalf of his fellow hobbyists, but the real ones, those who don't want to abuse it in any way the national good that we have, went out and said something, you had no right to recognize someone (I still don't know what that MP's name is) give a word, just because he was yesterday or I don't know when he was talking. Who remembers when he said anything more here. He recognized himself in that discussion and went out to replicate. So he was not the subject of such a discussion of the authentic hunter Vitomir Plužarevic. Take the bills next time, Miss Krstic, as you chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2200	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure? What member? (Svetislav Krstic: Article 97) The MP is reporting to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ambassador, please turn around so we can make a deal. They can't hear you yet. Let us work on the Rules of Procedure, as you know, that's for everyone's benefit, we checked this out this morning. The apostle speaks by article 97 because he is personally offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2201	Mrs Natasa Jovanovic, my name is Svetislav Krstic, Miss, I'm sorry, so either I didn't say it or anyone else, remember, I'm a doctor, Dr Svetislav Krstic, an SPS MP from Novi Sad. I'm also a hunter and I have the right to comment on anything any MP here says. That's why I got my term from the citizens. I don't think I've offended anyone, but I just want some incorrect things not to come out in front of this pay phone. I repeat, this assembly belongs to all citizens of Serbia, and therefore to hunters of 100,000 and who are also equal citizens. So, Svetislav Krstic, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2202	I thank Mr. Krstic. Please, let's explain the article one more time. I ask all MPs here in the Assembly, what we said in the morning, here are the MPs, not members of the campaign headquarters, not the hunting companies, and MPs can appear in the Rules of Procedure when they are personally offended or when the party is offended. Please don't let it happen again. Indeed, Serbian citizens pay for us to do our job. Let's not have every kind of injury being exorcised after this pay phone. All members, please. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2203	Thank you. The skill of speaking is something that a large number of people do not rule. It implies that, for this speaker or any other communication, you take a critical look at someone's work, someone's attitude, someone's opinion, someone's results, but don't insult someone. That's what you don't rule. If it follows the absence of a culture of speech and behavior, there's no help there anymore. I'm not going to make any warnings, because I'm in the position that citizens should see who they voted for and who they didn't. Therefore, whether I have hurt the Rules of Procedure or not, we can leave it for the committee or this assembly, but anyone who reports after the breach of the Rules of Procedure will get the word, because they should get the word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, as you have received it, and because he abuses this speaker for replica, it remains for the MPs and for the citizens of Serbia who see it as judging.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2204	Thank you. Of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2205	Mr. President, you just confirmed in your earlier address to the MPs that I was...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2206	One moment, Miss Jovanovic. Please allow the People's Messenger to speak, please be quiet. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic. Just name a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2207	Article 1, the rights and obligations of Members of the National Assembly. You will allow me to advertise that position, given that this is my third term as an SRS MP, which I am very proud of. I am a representative of the party which has also shown in this assembly and in the previous meetings and in the assembly of the National Community Assembly not only is the expertise, competence and rhetorical ability of SRS MPs, but also the polite, cultural behaviour and respect of those whom we should address in this way. Ms. Krstic just showed her her behaviour, and whenever you allow her to chair the assembly, she is on the way to Natasa Micic. Of course, since in this assembly it is not such an atmosphere that was created after the five-octobar revolution, so much haughtiness and passion, I promise it will not pass as Natasa Micic. But, you know, it is indeed God's gift to be a rhetorical man, to know that he recognizes the interests of the citizens, what is the interest of the people, and not in such a way, at a small door, to come to the post of vice president of the Assembly just because one party, which is and how it is defeated, to which Miss Krstic belongs, decided to make some quasi-coalization, which, of course, will not last long and which does not work in the interests of the Serbian citizens. As regards respect for the Rules of Procedure, as regards the development of democratic processes, we were best able to see that, and when Ms Krstic sat as an MP, not as vice-president of the Assembly, in the ranks of the Democratic Party of Serbia, who, on the proposal of the then head of the parliamentary group, brought this Rules of Procedure -- to recalibrate MPs, to be expelled, to be fined, that they could not represent the interest of the people. So much for that, and downfalls, dialects, rhetorical ability, God's gift, a little learning, and all that, there's no help there already, it's all individually from one case to another.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2208	I ask the MPs, there is no reason for you to welcome the Vice President of the Assembly with your ovations. It's enough that you've all voted for all the vice presidents sitting at this table. Please, and I'm warning everyone one more time. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, when the messengers of the people report, does not give the right to the Messenger of the people to do the same harm. I ask you to respect each other, because only then will the National Assembly do their job and it is written in the Rules of Procedure. Please, go ahead, Mrs. Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is extremely hypocritical to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then, of course, act in accordance with the violation of the Rules of Procedure. But, well, that doesn't matter. Mrs. Jovanovic, for me, ladies are all those who pass the age of 30. Mrs. Jovanovic,....
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2210	Please, ladies and gentlemen, my warning applies to all MPs. I'll remind you, and yesterday I warned several different MPs before I gave notice to the Rules of Procedure and I'll do it again. Please keep everyone together on the dignity of this institution. Go on, Mrs. Krstic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2211	Thank you. It's one thing to win, and another thing to realize victory. It's very important and you should know that. So from different aspects we can observe the statements "we won, and they lost" or vice versa. It's an individual thing, it's true, the skills of speech, and it's learning, but you're obviously never going to learn anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2212	Please, take it easy. So, in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Jovanovic was injured by the Rules of Procedure. Let's take it in a row. He called before that. You have no reason to worry, as you know, I will surely honor the word. Here you go. Just call me a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2213	Article 100. I appeal to Article 100(1) that the MP is obliged to respect the dignity of this assembly. I don't understand why this is happening again, and I'm very sorry to have to react, because already, regarding Miss Natasa Jovanovic, I once found out that she went out for a pay phone and said something that doesn't suit the truth. She said again something that doesn't match the truth, that the DSS has proposed a valid Rules of Procedure and our Parliament Club, I say from the last call I'm an MP, I know very well what I'm talking about. Here it writes well, look at the final provision of the Rules of Procedure - on 6 June 2002, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the DSS proposed, began to apply, and the second one proposed by the DOS Parliament Club began to apply. So who knows what time you've said something that isn't true, and I'm asking you to stop it, because it doesn't have to mean that if something is said a hundred times, it becomes true.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2214	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Jovanovic answered. Please behave yourself, of course, you'll specify a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2215	I'm going out to the Rules of Procedure to speak to Miss Emilia Krstic, who is over 40 years old.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2216	Please, the MPs can't hear you, please tell a member of the Rules of Procedure. (Natasa Jovanovic: Article 99 and Article 100(1)) Just to read to the MPs, you see everyone's confused, please calm down. So the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. So, since he can't do it by that article, as you know, because the speaker spoke in the context of the replica, I assume Article 100 of Section 1, and he says, "People's MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." Be kind and contact this member from the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2217	I would ask you to turn on my microphone, so you're very kind, Mr. Markovic. So, I address the MPs and Miss Krstic, who is over 40 years old, doesn't look bad for her age, at least colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group say so. As for her performance and presentation today, I really admire these rhetorical abilities of Miss Krstic, who has come out more times in the past 15 minutes than in three years how many MPs she has been in the DSS ranks, unlike me and other MPs; then there were 23 of us, and now there are 82 of us, thank God there will be 132 of us. We, fighting against legal projects that she too supported from the position of MPs who supported the DOS government, have done everything to ensure that they are in the number they are in today, and that we are indeed a winning option for Serbia. Miss Krstic, I will not be as rude as you, and I will not, unlike you, speak falsely, but I will just say that it is truly inappropriate for you to go out and in such a way try to address me not only as an MP of the party that is most dedicated and most valuable here, but to anyone. Out of courtesy, because it's a really ugly nickname, I won't mention how, Miss Krstic, in your Sokobanja they call you, because dignity doesn't allow me to use such expressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2218	Thank you. I have to thank you for finishing, because otherwise I would have to apply Article 102. I remind you, therefore, that, in addition to the warning of the President of the National Assembly, the MP does not have the right to take data out of the private life of the second MP... How could you not, you have a record, you can freely consult the minutes, please, I warned the previous speaker, I warned all MPs, be kind, it's not bad to remember what we've been talking about for the last ten minutes, don't. Can we continue now? Just a second, please, Mr Krasic, and let MP Vitomir Plužarevic be prepared, I apologize, Miroslav Nedeljkovic, forgive me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2219	Since we've finally established a peaceful consistency between the Quasi-representers of hunters and birds and rabbits, let's get back to the main topic. I used the term "squires of hunters" because everyone who protected the imaginary rights of hunters didn't see the amendments, and when they read the amendments to the SRS, then they'd only notice that their media attention was so missed and shot blank. Let's get back to this set of laws. So, today’s debate on these draft laws must practically give us an answer to three questions. The first question is how does the government think it balances revenues and budget expenditures. The second question comes down to how long the promises apply, and the third question is whether anyone was careless when he criticised. And here are some answers, during this debate to those answers we all came together. Our budget is not balanced, it has a deficit, it's uncovered, I think it's 45 billion dinars, but that's not a big problem either, the problem is that the government doesn't have a solution to one obligation under the Budgetary System Act, which is that only what exists can be spent. In this way, the government tells us that it cannot provide the means it claims to come from real sources either. What's he resorting to, then? Then it resorts to changing tax rules and all the rules that should allow for budget filling. We are now coming to the second question, and that is what with promises and criticism, because almost all the parties in the previous National Assembly's meeting were working in this room struggled to abolish the Financial transaction Tax Act, and even the government was thinking about abolishing that tax, because it was created as a symbiosis of two taxes: one tax concerning the restoration of the country and other fees related to the renewal of the Kolubara County. I'm sure if she were the government, that law would no longer exist on January 1st. That's what all the parties promised last year. Now here are those who have forgotten little about promises in power. Speaking of the Financial transaction Tax Act, the SRS proposed amendments and additions to the law a month ago, since only under the law last year was about four billion dinars collected. We have suggested, counting on the general mood, that it be abolished, because it is taxing something that is nowhere to be taxed. We have calculated that this law should be changed, it should be put down, and probably next month, if our bill had been passed, that law had fallen apart, and about 700 million dinars would have been collected, which is about necessary to resuscitate and repair the Hilandar monastery. When we suggested this from this assembly pay phone, we were warned not to adhere to any agreement, and the agreement was not to promote anything, and we did not actually promote anything, but only to shape the political will of all political parties. Now we know that the government does not give up that tax. As for the taxes on arms, cars, boats, ships, etc., I now have to answer the third question, which is a question of criticism. They used to be taxes, so-called. Shessel's tax, the entire opposition at the time, criticised it and said it was impossible, that it couldn't be subject to taxation. The critics, in 2001, turned it into a tax law. Be careful when you criticise, and now we're all in a former room, all representatives of the former government. One is your rhetoric when you're in opposition, and the other is when you're in power. Now that we're all exes, agree to that rhetoric. And that's what I'm talking about, and that's why I'm talking about budget balance issues. When that tax was introduced, the mobile phone was a luxury, few citizens had it, and today the children in primary school have it, and if some kid in eighth grade doesn't have a cell phone, make sure it's the only kid in the department that doesn't have a cell phone. Of course, there's no god knows what big incomes are, but it needs to show good faith and put an end to it. As far as guns are concerned, we've never opened the topic, and we're gonna have to open it. If a citizen is guaranteed the right to self-help in any situation where his life, body, property is at stake, then he has the opportunity and has the right to use all means to remove and reject an illegal attack. In America, in some countries, a gun is a perfectly normal thing, and it's not taxing itself, it's not luxury. I fully agree that the existing government is in trouble and probably a different government composition would be in similar problems. Could everything be subject to taxation? The principle of tax policy is that taxation is done according to economic strength and material opportunities. We're still in the domain of the so-called. taxation of final consumption which has been exceeded as an unfair form of taxation. For six years, there's been talk of value added tax and it can't liven up. We even have a federal law that the previous government didn't want to apply. These three laws don't solve any major problems. The increase in excise duties in gasoline and oil is likely to increase prices by 0.04%, as a direct effect. That's the so-called. direct influence, because all energies are pulling a large number of weights. That indirect influence would probably be over one, and that's what this government had to take care of. She had to take care of it, because we can't share some moves in democratic and non-democratic. Shessel's tax is undemocratic, but DOS tax is democratic. We now have a democratic end of working relations under the Labour Law and a non-democratic stay at work. We have democratic privatisations that the Corruption Council has said has 100 companies, a large list of which are directly violated by the provisions of the law. If something is democratic because it comes from a party that has a democratic name, then it is a small vision and a small guarantee for democracy. So, the answer to the question of what is being criticised, how much criticism must inevitably be contained in it and that finding that when something is promised then let it be fulfilled, but don't criticise an existing solution unless you have a quality alternative. These laws will not allow an increase in production, neither will the budget to be filled, but it is a good debate, because we have heard about oral excise arrangements on tobacco processing and we know that there is one dynamic that will change excise duty since 2005. Yesterday we had a chance to hear there was an oral agreement. That oral arrangement was like something that was a burazer's privatisation, throw your hand at half past six, we agreed. You buy the cigarette factories, and this year and next we won't move the excise, and in 2005, we'll go through this dynamic. Now you're asking here for that gentlemanhood to apply. Why didn't you introduce the gentlemanship in law? You had most of it, you could have put it into the law. No, because it was dangerous, because it was uncertain whether privatisation would succeed, what the effects of that privatisation would be. Of course, when I say this, I don't mean just one part of the existing government that's directly involved in these affairs. We've tried amendments to fix this a little bit, to make it look like these laws. We didn't want to submit amendments to the bill amending the Financial transaction Tax Act for one simple reason why we don't want to devalue our bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2220	Excuse me, Mr. Krassic, you'll have to finish after the time has run out. Excuse me, please. I apologize to Mr. Nedeljkovic, too, but the time that the parliamentary group had at their disposal was spent. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction tax law, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing Goods and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to item 4 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Law on Financial Transactions (specifics) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the proposal in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before I conclude a search in particular, there are no representatives of the Government, I conclude a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Use, COUNTRY AND VEHICLE OF GOODS (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Dusan Proroković, Dragan M. Jovanovic, Dragan S. Jovanovic and Jovan Todorovic, Veroljub Arsic, Dragan Colić, Radojle Bukvic, Vladan Vukić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Natasa Jovanovic, Ljubomir Kragović, Petar Jojić, Sava Urošević and Milutin Svetović, Hranislav Perić, Zoran Andjelković, Vjerica Radeta, Milko Štimac and Veroljub Stevanović. At a session of the Committee on Finance, MP Dusan Prorokovic withdrew amendments to Articles 7 and 9. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search under which the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Use, Holding and Wearing goods has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Milko Stimac submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Finance Committee and the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan M. Jovanovic, Dragan S. Jovanovic and Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with my colleague Jovanovic, I have submitted an amendment to exempt the vehicle from this obligation to pay taxes on passengers and vans. That's what I was talking about in principle. Those who had the understanding to listen to me understood the essence. And the point is that the van of the vehicle cannot be classified in any variant in the category of luxury vehicles, so they cannot be taxed in any way, both in the case of natural persons and in the case of legal persons. In particular, we insist that both natural and legal persons, in 99 percent of the cases, use a vehicle van to carry out economic activity. If we want to look at this thing to the end of the day, then we'll realize that this kind of tax burden, especially in terms of legal persons, is so high that it'll simply spend or eat the profits of one entrepreneur, farmer, owner of a small or medium-sized enterprise. Please, when someone has to pay 50,000 dinars because they have a van of over 3,000 cubic centimeters, then it's clear that this law is against other citizens and how damaged they are, and that they can't cover those costs from business. Take a farmer who drives his goods by van, agricultural products at the market, take a merchant, owner of an independent shopping store, who drives and drives goods out of his shop, and does all that by van. In doing so, he must pay these 50,000 dinars, which is inappropriate and especially not in line with the current strategy for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Now let's allow this kind of load for those people who opt to own cars of over 2500 cubic metres in legal faces, or over 3000, so that we can put those vehicles in the category of luxury vehicles, so whoever loves to have a ride, but the van of the vehicle, I'm undermining, they can't be classified in that category of vehicle, because no one owns a van to represent the luxury of it. So I ask all MPs that, by respecting what I've been saying, they accept the SPS amendment. There is also attitude 2 that speaks of the age of the vehicle. Col. Štimac has submitted an amendment in the same text as the SPS parliamentary group and I welcome the proposal to accept the amendment, because if we can't fix something, compared to the situation it was during the previous government, then don't even spoil it. And the previous government allowed a discount of up to 40%. We have proposed 15, 25 and 40 percent of the maximum discount and this is the biggest concession that can be made on the draft of this law, in this part, fully understanding the need for a proposal to provide a more secure source of funds for the budget. But we can't back down with the van, because that would just be a bad decision. A harmful decision and a complete destimulation of small enterprises, entrepreneurs, and especially peasants, which, like this mouthful, we all talk about, counting on the height of the agricultural budget, on the regressed fuel, and on many other things that should be realized; but, as someone said, let's not give on the bridge and take more than we gave on the bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2222	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and I ask that the part relating to the payment of taxes on passenger and van legal persons is deleted, and I believe that the old way of tax breaks has been much easier. This first part was particularly interesting, because it seems to me that the gentlemen of the expert group in the Government of the Republic of Serbia do not know much about what they have done now. For according to them, all participants in the country’s economic life are merely legal persons. However, they forgot that craftsmen are also natural persons, that they own independent commercial activities as individuals. And what's the difference between the actions they're doing? Not at all. There are no limits to how many, for example, a owner of an independent trade shop, within his own trade shop, will have a store, a warehouse, how many craftsmen will have their own facilities, in which he will exercise his right to work, how much a caterer will have his catering facilities and so on. So there's no difference in the type of activity that physical and legal persons perform. One such bill puts legal entities in an unfavourable position at the very beginning of their business, compared to their colleagues who own crafts and trades. I believe that this was a more reckless move by the government, wishing that in a campaign that had already, I say, started for the presidential election, to enlist voters in one particular way and say – well, we reduced that tax on cars that you should pay when registering. However, in order not to escape the deficit in the budget through one trick and through tax relief, citizens remain damaged. Because the first tax relief comes only after five years of age of passenger and van vehicles, and the next eight to ten years, and the last over 10 years, while the earlier settlement for each year had a certain tax relief. I can understand the promoter in this first part, up to five years, because it's still new cars, but I can't understand it later, because I think that years are taking their toll from the car owner. I still don't understand why it insisted on this – physical and legal persons, in yet another part of it, because I really hope that you don't expect the owner or director of the legal persons to go to business meetings, when they do a certain job, some business interest in order to do business, to travel their trucks or buses. Be assured, since I am in the economy, that I also know that companies, whether they are social or private, share the fate of the people and that nothing is easier for them than for the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2224	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2225	With this amendment, we have tried to draw attention to the promoter that what he has proposed is bad and that there will be great damage unless this amendment is adopted. Oh, here's why. I'll show that on a few examples. Does anyone know what the difference between the 101 flag owned by registered citizen Nikola Nikolic is and if that vehicle is located in the company "Safety". Using, holding, using is almost identical, and the gear exists, and the steering wheel exists, and approximately the same consumption and is used as needed. Nikola Nikolic paid sales tax for the vehicle when he bought it and if he sells it to someone, he pays the sales tax again. What the difference is is that when it comes to a legal person, the same cubicity and the same vehicle the difference is so great. There's no valid reason. The point of taxation is to remind ourselves, to use, to hold and carry goods. So there's no reason to point out some difference that should be respected in the law. We're trying to change it to the same thing. If the amendment is not adopted, then we will have a situation where registration of vehicles, when it comes to legal persons, will be more expensive. If there are known to be a large number of legal entities, companies, companies with limited liability, private property, it is entirely irrelevant for the owner of capital whether he registered it in his name or in the name of the firm and used it again. If you're doing this, then we'll get into the situation Mr. Arsic was talking about, that a man in a private car is going to finish his company's business and he's going to use it again -- he's holding and carrying. It's a matter of taxation to you. Let's just mention, there's a sales tax on the purchase. If, meanwhile, it is sold as a second-hand vehicle, a sales tax is also paid. Now a selection is being introduced between legal and physical persons, completely unnecessary, inappropriate. There won't be any effect on the budget, that's for sure. It could be a contrast. The fact that you planned to make a difference, or that you would provide more on the basis of this tax with legal persons, that the difference would be invested in fuelling or revoking that legal person's vehicle, would have increased effects according to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we did not want to suggest erasing this kind of taxation, etc. No, we just wanted to equalize the physical and legal faces, and we even accepted that your increase, which, roughly, moves for a rise in prices to a little over the previous year compared to this year, and to show you that if you do this with legal persons, will come out as a bad boomerang. I have to point out one more thing: those who are for independent Kosovo and Metohija, and they write it in their electoral programme, those who advocate and iron out what Serbs are delivering to The Hague tribunal, those who are unnecessarily accepting any ultimatum that comes from the side, probably have no ultimatum and no obligation, because this is a fruit of their own thinking, return it to normal and in the interest of this people. You don't press any strings around here. That's why we don't believe in good intentions when these changes are proposed in our laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2226	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Vukicevic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Cholic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2227	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 requesting that the entire member be deleted. In the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing the Goods of the Proposer, it reportedly wants the proposed solutions to be applied as soon as possible, with a view to a fairer distribution of the tax burden, relatively to the economic power of the taxpayers. The SRS has requested that Article 3 be deleted, and as a result of the removal of Article 3 would retain the existing amount of mobile tax, which would be acceptable for most Serbian citizens who own mobile phones. The legislator proposes that the provision of Article 3 of this Act be applied starting next month from the date of entry into force of this law, for the reason that it regulates the level of tax on the use of a mobile phone, which is paid monthly during the loading of a subscription relationship, at the time of the payment of an invoice for mobile telephony services carried out. When the Republic of Serbia's budget does not make sense, it then reaches for such laws as the example of double taxation of goods, which have already been paid once a purchase tax. Unfortunately, Minister Dinkic is not interested in this debate, not interested in amendments submitted by SRS lawmakers. As he said, he doesn't care how much time he spends as finance minister, and there is every chance he won't be long and that's good for Serbian citizens. The SRS believes that removing taxes on use, keeping and carrying goods would facilitate the difficult material position of citizens and would also create conditions for more efficient business in the areas of fisheries, aviation and river traffic. Is this tax system promised to Serbian citizens in the pre-election campaign and is it the work of your experts, is that all you know, is what you are doing in the tax sphere for the benefit of Serbian citizens or not? Such a law directly damages most Serbian and Serbian citizens and requires its abolition. By accepting this amendment to Article 3, the existing amount of mobile tax would be maintained, which would be acceptable for most citizens. This way, as Mladjan Dinkic and the ruling coalition do, the hand is dragged into the pockets of taxpayers. It reminds me of stealing and kidnapping, and the people were already offended by the notion that there should be no theft without Labus and Junior.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2228	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2229	In six years things have changed, opportunities and circumstances have changed, everything has changed. If in 1998 there was some excuse to introduce a tax on the use of mobile phones because a small number of citizens had mobile phones and thus displayed their status in society, so there was some justification, today it is no longer a status matter, but for some and a dry need, especially where there is no fixed telephony, and people need to establish some contact. I fully agree with the government that this form of tax collection is very effective. There are two institutions: Telecom and Mobtel. In a moment, there's a tax on cell phones and it's done. However, should everything be taxed? If you keep that logic that's in your possession, then we're wondering why you didn't tax your Internet connection, why didn't you hit special taxes on cell phones with cameras and cameras, why didn't you tax when a man opened a window and call his neighbor? And that's communication. I don't see a way that you can justify the logic of still holding this tax. We're aware that you have budget problems, but if there's a need to make money on everything, and you're aware of it yourself, and you're buying your kids cell phones to be in touch and you know, when they come back from school, where they are. Now you're increasing from 200 to 300 dinars, 10%; yes, it's effectively charged. There's two places to go, you take money and you still squeeze those providers, as they're called, and you finish the job. It's not all state income, it can't all be state income. You'd better pay attention to how to charge sales taxes for mobile phones and otherwise to secure those funds. Like this, you criticized Shessel's taxes, inherited taxes, so she says, since it's inherited, let's move on and push it. So come these others, and they say, let's now increase, and in the towers they say we shouldn't pay, this law should be put out of force, it's not justified, it doesn't fit, we don't go into some market economy, what you say is harmonisation, etc. It's been critical of everything and everything, and now that it's come to a proper position, so when you see the pain of running the country, there's no more criticism than you've put out. We couldn't stop, your sponsors bombed us, we had to fight them, we had to look after the kids, we had to protect the property. So I have to repeat, so those who advocate, insist and go abroad and negotiate, and say, Serbs should be delivered to The Hague, those who put -- Kosovo and Metohija are not needed in Serbia, and today they are in power, I do not trust them when they propose the law. That's some damage to the people. It's the continuity of political action. You see for yourself, now a simple man wonders, taxes, taxes, excises, where they ask these profits, then no, then it's a fixed tax and it's not a percentage. You can't drink coffee, you can have whiskey, you can tell who will. We're not gonna raise our hand for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2230	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2231	I'm advertising Article 99. The Rules of Procedure, which reads, "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." I would ask the chairman to make sure that when it comes to the amendment, that it is only spoken about and that no plenary debate is held.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2232	Thank you. Of course, I'll take care of it. You won't be mad. I liked hearing new ideas about new taxes. I think we all laughed together and that's good for the assembly. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojla Bukvic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Vukicevic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Vukicevic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Vukicevic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2233	In this amendment, the SRS proposed that point be deleted in Article 7 paragraph 3 after the word "15 or more meters" and the text should be deleted by the end of the sentence. That is how Article 5 is deleted in this article of the law. We were just consistent. With this amendment, we have followed the previous amendments to the previous members and we believe that this is how the text of the law is cleared and Article 7 is improved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2234	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. We have a proposal to add a new 7a after Article 7. National MP Vladan Vukevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanović. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2235	Christ's resurrection, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We've heard a lot from this place these days and really some things must be surprising. Since we're really listening to this, and so that we don't continue to listen to this, and we're talking about tax laws, I suggest a tax on demagogy is introduced. This would really be the tax that would bring the biggest income, some would pay a lot of money and some less. Really, it's supposed to stop. What else to say after persuading MPs that someone can do a lot of things to disappear from the foreign trade deficit or that someone in power would have lifted the taxes on cars. I can only ask them what they didn't do when they were in power for three years, and of course, the answer would be just like before, there was a bombing, there were sanctions. We have objections to this law, Mr. Nikolic... (Tomislav Nikolic: The story of us, not the law. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2236	Be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2237	You don't have to interrupt me, we have objections and we've made amendments. Let's leave the demagogue and campaign for some other opportunities. In this amendment to Article 8, I suggested, on behalf of the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group, that attitude 2 be changed by eradicating the word "sport" only to remain -- for recreational activities. Then to add attitude 3, which would read: "The tax on registered aircraft is not paid on aircraft and aircraft used for sport, which are owned by Serbia's Air Force and its members (clubs and athletes) and which have a membership certificate issued by this alliance." You all got a letter from the Air Force. It also received the government of the Republic of Serbia on two occasions. This amendment has been rejected. I ask the MPs to accept this amendment, it is also very important for pilot training and for this sport at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2238	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will address you not only as an MEP, but primarily as chairman of the Assembly Committee on Sports and Youth. I am an ex-young man, but with enough understanding for the needs and sports organizations and youth, and from there I think I have enough arguments, and above all from my youthful experience, so I would suggest to Mr. Secretary that he accept this amendment. So, those who own aircraft, aircraft, dragons, and other miracles, let them pay taxes for recreation. But those who have it all on behalf of the development of sport, on behalf of the training of pilots, paratroopers and the like, should not, at least in this economic state where sports alliances are located, be burdened by the state, especially this much. Let me read you a few sentences from a letter that came to all of us, I think only to MP groups, from the Air Force of Serbia, which is said among other things - the Air Force of Serbia is an educational and sports organisation, which has been involved since its founding in the development of aviation and sports in Serbia. In its composition there are 41 aerobics and three air alliances, and members of the Alliance are air athletes in nine branches of the Air Force: parachutery, sailing, motor flying, paragliding, air and rocket modelling, ballooning, glidering and flying in ultra-short crafts. They say -- one dragon is worth 300,000, and it needs to be paid a tax of 60,000; for five years you paid a dragon through taxes. This is how changes were introduced, the air union gentlemen say, according to the current state would refer to about 30 aircraft, one motor-powered sailboat and 24 motor dragons, currently used in sports competitions of the Air Force. The amount of tax on this basis is about two million dinars, if charged, which is a negligible sum in the budget, and the consequences of this tax on these owners is that they will not register their aircraft, so that tax charges will not be. For these reasons, I think Mr. Minister should respect this proposal, accept Mr. Stevanovic's amendment and thus demonstrate the readiness of both his ministry and government to assist sports as such.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2240	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a way that is understandable to all Serbian citizens, we ended an hour ago the story of hunters and what this law treats, when it comes to hunters, and I submitted an amendment to Article 9, which I ask that on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the tax and the weapons registered be abolished. Of course, neither I as a member of the Assembly Committee on Defence and Security, nor the other members of the other parties, nor the chairman of the Committee, Mr Mircic, have that information. So we can only think about a number of people in Serbia who have weapons and permits to use it, or carry it or hold it. Someone says it's over 200,000 individuals. Maybe the data is approximate, probably is, at least that's what the colleagues in the SRS say, and it's really a huge number of people who asked the MUP permission to hold or carry guns for no reason. So probably because of his personal safety, for the safety of his family, everyone asked for permission and it's one rigorous procedure. Especially a few years ago, it was strengthened, which we MPs of the SRS and welcomed, but it is incomprehensible for us that so many hearings do not have a new minister of finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and thus these people, who, for legitimate reasons, have filed a request and received a permit, are so drastically punished. For those who have a license to hold arms, the tax goes from 900 to 2,000 dinars, and those who have a license to carry from 4,500 to 10,000 dinars. Minister Dinkic explained it yesterday in a truly incomprehensible and unacceptable way. He said it was because today in Serbia, and the degree of crime has increased since 2000, you wanted to admit it or not, there are many agencies dealing with the protection of property and persons. You can't imagine, Mr. Dinkic, that all 200,000 people who have a license to hold and carry weapons work around in property and person protection agencies. You know, if I ask myself, all normal citizens of Serbia and the MPs of the SRS, not that you should be taxed, but punished, and I hope that one day they will be held accountable. Among them were all you and those who used short and long pipes, entering state institutions, and they had no license to do so. You didn't do this in the presence of an asset and person protection agency, but you were there, misusing that current position you had, on the wings of the five-octobarian revolution, breaking in and entering the National Bank of Yugoslavia and telling people who were employed there that they would jump their feet through the door if certain documentation didn't give you an insight. It's not a fictional story. There are witnesses, there are people who will charge you for this in front of the competent state authorities. One day, and that will be soon, when the Serbian Radical Party is in power, and for that and for other abuses, you will have to answer. This government, if you're not hearing about it, and you're dealing with weapons and you've shown that you're doing it in such an anti-constitutional way, you'd have to have hearing and to create a majority to abolish the tax on registered weapons. And by sending Kragujevac and the Purpose Industry out of the city where I come from, you will not destimulate their further existence, production and situation in which this factory of intended production is very difficult, and how it finds it, by the fact that no one will ever consider asking for permission again, not for holding, not for carrying guns, let alone buying some of the guns, very high-quality, which are made in the factory of dedicated products in Kragujevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2242	Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to Article 82 of Section 7. I ask the chairman to carry out a check on the quorum in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2244	Please insert the cards into the MPs' units. Since there's no quorum, I'm setting a 15-minute break. [[After break – 17.35]] Please insert your cards into the voting units to determine the quorum. Since we have a quorum, we continue to work. . Does the amendment to Article 9 still have any wishes to speak? No, I don't. Mr. Krasic, you've reported before for article 9. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2246	The amendment to Article 9 removes all the doubts that existed. The SRS proposes to abolish the arms tax, so that there is no need to worry neither hunters nor fishermen nor other animal lovers, nature etc. You probably realize now that it was completely empty that discussion, that hour, that replica, was enough just to read the amendment to the SRS. Why did we suggest that the tax be abolished? In addition to that systemic problem, do we even need one law taxing possession, holding and using some goods and quite unidentified goods, which could all mean. When it comes to weapons, we must make sure that this tax does not achieve any of the objectives set out in the light of the proposal for this law. If someone thinks that by taxing the holding and carrying weapons there is a reduction in crime in this country, there will be no reduction in crime; if someone thinks that these arms traffic is entering legal flows, he has made a terrible mistake. The rest is completely untaxed by that weapon that's being held illegally, it's nowhere in any record, and it's a potential threat to crime. If someone thinks that a taxed weapon can hurt more than an untaxed and unregistered weapon, then logic is a problem. If someone thinks that taxation of weapons can make such big money to save the budget, to create another agency or a directorate, or another state institution, is in great error. But what a tax on arms can do; it can do harm. Secondly, this law does not solve a problem that citizens have been faced with for several years. Those who own guns, so they got the solutions that they should pay their annual taxes, if they don't have the funds, they go to the MUP and they say, please, here's this gun, anyway it's my grandfather's inheritance, I don't use it, I don't know how to use it, you wear it, just so I don't pay taxes. The police say, excuse me, we can't take it, find someone who will buy, of course, who has the approval to purchase a weapon, so the man became a prisoner of the inheritance. These few examples show how pointless this is, unnecessary, nothing has been achieved, and to make logic even more visible, then the transitional and final provisions of this law require a return fact for Article 9 and Article 10, which in practice would mean that whoever paid the arms tax from January 1st to the present day will have to pay the difference for what the increased tax was during this year, and so we practically punish the taxpayer who was zealous. The need for money, the need to address public finances is a serious need, but the means, the way, the opportunities must be present when a law is proposed, must be present. When we pass criminal law and some other regulation relating to weapons is likely to have to change the logic of thinking about weapons, as the logic of private property must change as sacred. No private property, no freedom, no human personality. Believe me, this gun as a tool that stands in a closet, so whether or not it is inherited, whether or not its use is possible, serves as a precaution. This law cannot achieve the goals you intend to achieve, and you can only irritate citizens and gun lovers and all those who are armed. There, the SRS demands that you do not pay taxes on weapons possession, hunters and their MPs, be calm.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2247	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan M. Jovanovic, Dragan S. Jovanovic and Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2248	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPS parliamentary group still had some selective approach when it comes to weapons taxation. We have here proposed a variant that is, I think, entirely realistic and appropriate to the somewhat economic strength of those people who possess weapons for which they have a gun list and a holding permit, as well as for those persons who have a gun sheet and a license to carry. What exactly did we suggest? Instead of the proposed 2,000 dinars per weapon held at home, therefore, the gun would not be so much as to increase from 900 dinars to 1,350 dinars, which would say 50%, exactly how small the price has been in the period since the law was passed today and applied. This means that they would actually do to bring the previous legal provisions into line with the real situation, with the price rise to little and thus, however, correct the injustice if these people were to be burdened so much. When it comes to this second piece of weapon that man has the right to carry, we have suggested 50% increase: instead of 4,500 to be 6,750 dinars. That's how we talked to the people who proposed this law, so I'm a little surprised that this amendment wasn't accepted. And it should be borne in mind, the first owners, who have the right to hold arms in Serbia, according to what I understood by the promoters, have about 98,000. These others, who have the right to carry that weapon, are about 1,300 or about 1,500 in all Serbia. Therefore, I think it is necessary to respect some specificities that are related to this, but especially the fact that the MUP has authorized each of them to carry or hold a weapon for reasons of personal safety. So, it wasn't the M.P. that did it by heart, but it just appreciated some real situation where a person finds himself and the need to carry a weapon to protect his personal safety. If you now impose an obligation on him of 10,000 dinars a year, then it is too much of an obligation, and the fact that personal security is in danger is enough burden for such a person. So I suggest you accept this amendment to the Socialist Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2249	The word has been given by the People's MP Misa Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to make another argument to support this amendment, whose argument we just heard. It is, of course, the best and will be the best when there is no arms tax in this way as it is now taxed and will be the best when the government implements planned measures and activities to reduce fiscal taxes. I want to question Article 9 of the Law, which is for one more reason. It explains: "In view of the social dangers of weapons, for weapons held in the taxation system, it is proposed to increase the level of taxes, thus also destabilising its attitude, i.e. carrying." Every weapon is dangerous, the one that's taxed and the one that's not. Secondly, if that were the reason, it would be illogical. You could have noticed that the increase for weapons issued by the armed paper for holding weapons for personal security, which is the largest number of people in Serbia, is 122%, from which it can be concluded that it is the most dangerous, because the expected rate is the most positive. Also, if we go along with that logic, it turns out that whoever has the license to hold an automatic rifle has less dangerous weapons, because the increase is only 66%, and the one holding the semi-automatic rifle is even stimulating, because the increase is 33%. Does that mean that semi-automatic rifles are less dangerous than guns? If you'd applied that argument. Obviously, it wasn't the end of the deal. It's obvious here, and it's not disputed that most of them hold a weapon for personal security and simply the biggest inflow in the budget is of that kind of money, and that's the real reason, not the detimulative fact of this law. That's a legitimate reason to say that there's a need for that money. That's why a real solution was proposed. Let the previous figure increase by rising prices to a little bit, but to everyone, not just for personal security weapons. For these reasons, I call on the MPs, and I call on the minister, to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2251	The word is Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2252	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today there have been some criticism that there is no need to raise excise duties, that there is no need to introduce taxes on holding arms. You cannot, on the one hand, reduce salary taxes, reduce production costs, and on the other hand do not tax taxes on products that are the world's highest source of fiscal income. The government will not accept the amendment to reduce the taxes on the holding of arms, because we believe that tax policy should encourage actions such as agriculture, production, the abolition of taxes on the Fund of Profits. And as far as weapons are concerned, we have in mind that otherwise military personnel and police officers have the right to keep one piece of that weapon as a memory without any taxes. A representative of the Serbian Radical Party mentioned here that a citizen could not be the victim of an inheritance if he inherited a gun. I must say these gentlemen didn't remember to pull the parallel between the inheritance of apartments and houses. If you inherit an apartment or a house, you pay taxes. I don't see any reason for you to inherit a gun. Why don't you pay your taxes? However, we must have one approach as a responsible government, that we cannot stimulate the holding and carrying of weapons, or those carrying weapons should pay an adequate tax. They're mostly security agencies. Certainly these agencies get huge benefits from those users who use their services and should pay that tax. I agree with the remarks of the MPs that mobile phones are not luxury and therefore we have accepted the amendment to abolish the mobile phone tax from 1 January 2005, given that we have already designed the budget for this year's revenue from this service. As for the remarks that the increase in excise duty on cigarettes and fuel will burden the standard I have to say that, as far as cigarettes are concerned, it's a really minimal increase, only one dinar for that category "C" used by the poorest layers of the population. As for fuel, you can see for yourself that our streets are blocked, at least in capital cities, cars. I am sure that with this, even if the full amount of excise duty is transferred to the price, it will continue to be an indication that the price is lower than the price of fuel in the region. Of course, the government's policy is to lower one tax, but in order to provide money for public functions, to get out for schools, for hospitals, for unemployed, for all categories that need help, we need to pick up income in the way that all other countries work, and these are excises. The participation of excise duties must be increased in total tax revenues and the participation of salary taxes to reduce. So, I must say, those who have debated against this law certainly have the right to their own personal position, however, these are the reasons why the government will not accept these amendments. I hope that all three laws the government has proposed will be adopted in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2253	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10, which should be changed and read as "Article 25 is deleted". The reason for this amendment is for the Serbian Radicals' proposal to delete Article 9, i.e. to abolish the tax on registered weapons and then this is an analogue amendment, which identifies this and Article 9. Otherwise, the reasons are multiple for submitting this amendment. One reason is the selectivity of the payment of various weapons. The second reason is the retroactive fact that this bill has. The third reason, most importantly, is not to burden Serbia's citizens with new taxes and taxes, because if we only take the figure that a single gun is paid tax of 2,000 dinars, that means in three years we have already paid off that gun, which on average costs 200 marks, which is one very large item for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The result of this adopted budget, with a budget deficit of 45 billion dinars, is exactly the proposal for this set of tax laws. The lack of funds in the budget can only be replaced by new taxes and levies. But whether it is positive, whether it is a public interest, whether an increase in taxes is something that will delight citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No, gentlemen of the government, every imposition, every tax adds to the difficult situation of Serbian citizens anyway. She's a poor government that rules taxes and impositions. Each such government is short of breath, but what we will do when the government has no ideas, which is not constructive, and when it cannot create an ambience for economic growth and development, then it resorts to new taxes and new commitments for filling the budget and covering the budget deficit. Instead of focusing all its forces on one goal, which is to restore and revive production, create conditions and environments for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, create conditions and environments for the creation of new jobs. Then, creating conditions for new investment projects and at all for economic growth and development, because only with growth and the development of the economy can we expect real budget filling, including budget deficits, not by introducing new taxes and taxes. In the end, I would like to take advantage of the minister's presence and ask him from this pay phone – why, Mr. Minister, have you stopped paying off the old foreign savings savings to the Yugoslavs from Kosovo and Metohija. You are aware that Jugobanka Kosovo Mitrovica has taken full foreign exchange savings from all banks in Kosovo and Metohija, then Ljubljana Banka, Bank of Kosovo, etc. All these lists have been updated. You started paying off. One or two wars were paid, and then the payoffs to citizens who play the savings roles of old foreign exchange savings in the Yugoslavs of Kosovo Mitrovica, so that back three years they were damaged in relation to citizens living in the Republic of Serbia, who were saving the South Banks in the Kingdom, Kragujevac or Belgrade. I think that discrimination is very bad and that it is necessary to correct it urgently and to allow citizens who have been saving the South Banks in Kosovo Mitrovica to have absolutely the same rights as the citizens had and to save the South Banks in Belgrade, Novi Sad, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2255	Here's a word for Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2256	Thank you, Chairman. Only for the gentleman from the SRS notice, i.e. the answer to this question. Two weeks ago, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a regulation regulating the payment of old foreign currency savings to save Yugoslavs from Kosovo Mitrovica. It was not done in the previous period, it is true, because there was no adequate legal basis to pay off citizens who are non-Albanian nationalities. It was a problem now overcome by an appropriate regulation. It is not true that the databases have been updated, but by May 31st, when this year's payment of old foreign savings for other banks' savings begins, it will finally start after a year and a half of the suspension and payment of the Yugoslav Bank's savings from Kosovo Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-15-0.u2257	Thank you. Please, I only have one announcement. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock in the small hall of the Assembly will be the presentation of a manual for MPs. Since we are finishing today's work, it is Monday at 10 p.m., just according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 81, paragraph 4, since it is usually an unworkable day, but due to the urgency of passing these laws, the extension is Monday at 10 p.m. Thank you.
