ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2981	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 195 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Dejan Rajčić, Velimir Stanojevic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Arsen Djuric, Ljubisa Djokovic, Goran Rakovic, Vukosav Tomaševic and Zoran Nikolic. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON ACCIZA (the continuation of the principled search together with the 7th point) The word has a National MP Brance Stojanović, and let the MP Goran Knezevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2982	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of our today's session, I sincerely expect it to pass in a slightly different tone than yesterday, and I believe it will contribute to today's date – St Vasilija Ostroški, that this work, which we have today as Members of Parliament, will bring to an end. I'd just like to say a few words about amendments to the Excise Act. We've heard more than once during the principle debate that we've talked about it recently. I have a certain satisfaction to say in front of the SPS that the discussion that has been led and the attitudes that SPS MPs have been advocated are partly embedded in this material that is today in front of us. I express my gratitude to both the Minister and the Ministry and, of course, to the relevant committees. Therefore, it is not a great sin and it is not a great pity that in a relatively short time we talk twice about excise duties. Of course, the Minister of Finance's task is to take care of budgeting and it's kind of natural to solve this problem by means of excise duties. The last time we talked about this, we advocated it, and today we repeat: excise policy, in a way, can be channeled and routed in a certain sense and economic activity in certain branches. And we said then, I am sorry that an amendment that took place from the representatives of the SRS, which we supported, which is the issue of excise wine excise policy. Again, domestic wine producers and import producers, i.e. import wines, are in the same plane. I don't think that's good. I'm just going to make an example of why it's like that and why I don't think it's good. In particular, the previous government, with a very poor excise policy in this area, has done great damage to domestic wine producers, or domestic wineries. Why? Because the excise was extremely high. It was close to 20 dinars, it seems to me 18 for wines and thus placed in a very irregular position domestic wineries and domestic wine producers in relation to import wines, which were freed from these duties. That way our wines were much more expensive. Of course, because of the situation in which we all live, it also reduced our ability to sell it. It's a good measure of the previous government that the excise has been lifted, but too late. It has entered a new harvest, a new processing, and now we have problems in all wine houses where, practically, large quantities of wine stand on supplies and it is not possible to solve this problem through the market, i.e. by selling, which is, I say, great in all the wineries, because we have a situation that the producers have not been paid the grapes. Now it's a huge long winery, they can't sell the wine supply, and on the other hand it's already started, so to speak, a new year, or a new cycle of production, where the vineyards need to be protected, where the resources are needed, and I think that in such a way we're going to go towards something that is the tradition of this country, which I think is real and potential and opportunity, and we used to be big wine exporters, we're practically coming into a situation that the huge areas of the vineyard are collapsing. In his opening statement, the minister pointed out and said, so the amendment was accepted and that was my little bit on behalf of the SPS, it was about excises, or a new product, and I hope that he will see the light of day very quickly, so to speak. In our country so far, in Serbia, no one has produced this, and in that former large Yugoslavia, some Slovenians have done on this plan, and I think it's good, that is, everything that is, in the meantime, considered this proposal on excise duties. It's a new product that's going to get the right one, so to speak, a measure in an excise sense and that it's going to find its place on our country's market. Yesterday, the SPS's position was delivered by our MP. I'd just like to add one more thing. Of course there must be an appropriate ratio of the price of gasoline, diesel-fuels, and that's where we agree, but our MP has discussed in the sense that the quotas of regressed oil have to increase in relation to what's been divided. I am pleased that someone discussed that there is a problem with the distribution of these oil-regressed bonuses, there is no such thing in Smederev, local self-government is well organized, and it is practically distributed to peasants, but that oil has been spent. There are no government representatives here, but the government has to go one step further, so it means that appropriate quotas are set for the future harvest, which follows soon, so we need that quota of regressed oil for our producers, for our peasants to increase. I'm taking the opportunity to appeal here to the government's representatives to consider and give these additional amounts of regressed oil, because now, obviously, after this session of ours, they're going to jump the excise on diesel fuel, and that's how we're going to help agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2983	The People's Messenger Goran Knezevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2984	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, is already at first sight the law on amendments and compliance with the Excise Act offends the dignity and intelligence of our MPs and discredits our work. Is it possible that only 15 days after the supplementation of the Excise Act, the same law will come through the emergency procedure. If it's from the minister, if he wanted to discipline and retrain MPs, I think it's a lot. I'm very interested in how our fellow MPs who voted last time, Malten, against this law, how they will behave this time and how they will act. The reasons for the motion to submit the draft law are very clear and the DS MPs spoke about it in the 2004 budget debate. Of course, we have a problem with unreally planned revenue from the budget, there is also public spending that has grown and leads to a very high budget deficit of around 45 billion. This is all further complicated by the adoption of the Hague Indictees Act and hence, an arrangement has been called into question with the IMF and the World Bank, and the return of debt to the Paris Club. That's why I don't see any particular reasons for the euphoria of our delegation returning from London and Washington, when it was all in advance and all that was said in advance. Also, it should not be forgotten that what the minister was talking about yesterday means, about the spectacular successes of our economy in the first three months, if there are such successes, then it should be attributed, first of all, to the previous government, because you know that the budget's temporary financing was in place, that in the first three months, the effects of privatisation of more than 1,000 enterprises in Serbia and that in the fourth year of transition these results are seen. To somehow balance the balance and reduce the deficit, the government proposes to increase the excise duty on diesel by about 25%. This solution, of course, affects the population's standard through increasing retail prices and above all, on the burden of the economy, as it is known that diesel-fuel is one of the essential inputs and will result in a multiplier effect of a chain increase in the prices of many finished products. The explanation that this increase will not significantly disrupt the price ratio of these products in Serbia, and relative to the prices within the environment, seems very cynical to me. After all, it is quite the opposite of all government promises, and it is particularly the opposite of what the Prime Minister said here in front of us about a month ago, perhaps, where he advocated an increase in the standards of citizens and a discharging economy. Furthermore, the reason for the law's passing is about curbing the gray economy. This is totally illogical with what is proposed, because any increase in the burden, tax or excise, leads to conditions of equal purchasing power for the population to flee from regular flows and to go to the gray area of the economy. If the idea was to curb the grey economy, then, first of all, it was necessary to think about what DS MPs were talking about in the budget debate, which is the faster introduction of value added tax and eventually, the help in economic operators obtaining fiscal cash registers. So, in the end, this bill has a consequence of the impact on the population standard, the new burden on the economy and the increase in smuggling and the grey economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2985	The People's Messenger Goran Jaksic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2986	I would like to speak on this occasion about the parts of the two laws that are on the agenda, so the Act on Excises and the Tax Procedure Act, not about both laws entirely, but about some of their works. At the beginning, regarding the Excise Act or perhaps generally related to conduct in the Assembly, it is just said that by passing such a law, I am talking about the Excise Act, it offends the dignity of the Assembly, and I would rather say that in the previous period, in various other ways, much worse has offended the dignity of the congregation in this house, but other than the public will be given its court and the investigative authorities. On the occasion of the amendments and the addition of the Excise Act, a finding was made that, I guess, the continuation of what has been said about insulting the Assembly, that it is very unusual to appear and that this in some way demeans this assembly, that it appears now before this house of amendments and the addition of one law. We, and MPs know this well, but the public here, lately, we've been dealing with the most amendments and additions to the law, and that's what the announcement of every agenda is about, in almost every debate, we have some kind of amendment or addition of some law. So the amendment to the Excise Act is absolutely no new phenomenon in the work of the Assembly. It is a common procedure dealing with the Serbian Parliament. In order to be completely realistic, both for us and for the citizens of Serbia, to single out two facts in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, which is not only to increase excise duties by this bill, but also to reduce certain excise duties. So it can't be said that this law is aimed exclusively at increasing a certain burden and endangering standards, which is laid down against this law, but we must say that this law also contains members who will be reduced by certain excise duties. As a result of the diesel excise duty, it has already been said, the disparity that has emerged in relation to the price of gasoline and diesel is something that is very unusual, such proportionality, such proportionality has not been present on the derivative market and is not present on the product market in the countries in the environment. I think that needs to be fixed. What is the direct benefit of increasing the excise duty on diesel fuel, it is also already said, is the fill-in of the budget. Right away, let's also clarify these things, it's said, in a certain way, and either directly or indirectly, that filling the budget by taking excises through the traffic of oil derivatives puts a hand in the citizens' pocket. This is a very inconclusive and incorrect finding. Budget isn't something to throw in the water, budget's not coming out of this country. The budget, which in this way is being filled in right now, directly or indirectly to the citizens, budgeting, and in providing budget resources, is being provided to pay for the functioning of a very large part of society, a very large number of families employed in health care, education, police, military. They're all citizens of this country. All these citizens have their families, they have children. By filling the budget, we directly or indirectly influence the better lives of citizens, the functioning of state institutions, the better position of this country in the world, financial arrangements, and all this will directly affect the improvement of the lives and standards of citizens. It's a very good process, something that builds the functioning of the state, which is collectively raising funds and directing these same funds into better functioning of the state and a better life of citizens. So we have a situation that the government, and what the Assembly adopted about the budget, has a different concept, has a concept that the budget has one development note. Such a tax policy always has and requires certain compromises. The state, given its economic situation, has to make such compromises, has to take and cut to some side. The general position and the adopted policy of this government is to help the development of economy and economy with this budget. All of us in principle or directly advocated or accepted the need to give certain economic and economic incentives, and then we have to accept and that it is necessary to shape the budget differently, both cost-effective and also, to be open and real, and the revenue side. Accises for imports of fruit juices are one of the measures that will affect, this time indirectly, the development of agriculture and the economy in the part of the processing of agricultural products, as we will thus indirectly protect and encourage production in fruit production, but also production in processing. The story is that this will deprive the market of certain quality goods and put citizens in such a position that they will not be able to buy or that they will have to pay more and to be deprived of more quality juices is not true. It has been shown that our agriculture and our processing industry are now in a state, and unlike some years ago, frankly, they produce very high-quality products from this range of quality products and that citizens, by making something more expensive import juices, will certainly not be deprived of quality products. Thank God it's true. We just want to encourage this kind of activity of agriculture and processing to continue to develop and to maintain this trend. So the tax relief is here present, to repeat what I said in the opening part, because the production of grapes in the part of agricultural production and the production of wine in the part of the processing is released. We have a situation that in another way, and this time most directly, we are affecting the increase of agricultural production in the area of grape production and wine production. No one can close their eyes on this fact. It's a fake. No one can argue with this. Therefore, this law also has positive efforts and will give positive results in any case. An even short crackdown; agricultural producers are said to be put in a bad position by increasing diesel fuel prices. Another fact, through an increase in the agricultural budget, the government has ensured that a significant amount of diesel fuel is distributed as diesel fuel at preferential or subsidized prices. It's a reality. We can't just stick to what we don't like when we're discussing this pay phone, let's be realistic, and let's also mention the facts that are positive and stand. About the Tax Procedure Act, a few things about part of the criminal policy. It has been said that the criminal policy was in the very appearances of this speaker, either according to the proposed amendments, something that was given too high in this law, that these criminal measures are very large and that they do not correspond to the economic power of those who are going to commit certain tax offences. This is something that even appears in discussions in local congregations, and where I have had the opportunity many times and in many years to be a councilman, and there is a classic replacement of thesis. Penalty policy is not the same as tax policy. So criminal policy does not oblige those to whom it applies, as tax policy or taxi policy requires. Of course, it should be kept in mind that tax policy, obligation policy, is appropriate to economic power, to the situation of the person to whom it applies, and above all to his ability to pay. She refers to everything. Penalty policy has a very different purpose, to prevent potential violations of the law from being prevented, and in that case we cannot say that a certain level of punishment is too high and that the level of punishment does not correspond to the payload capacity. I'd just like to remind you of how low a criminal policy is, something that in itself loses its meaning. I'm sure you've had a chance to see local punks park their cars in the middle of the street, and they come in and pay a cop in advance for putting traffic in danger and committing a misdemeanour. It's not a criminal policy measure. When the penalty for wrong parking is increased, you don't now have a situation to pay in advance for what a certain offense will do. That's exactly what this situation shows. If we have in the current policy of punishment in the Tax Procedure Act, which is in force until the new law is passed, the situation that someone pays only five percent of the nominal value of the tax, which, by disobeying the law, has caused a penalty, will certainly not affect increased discipline, because in tax policy, if the penalty is not at least a few times the amount of tax that is taxed, you will not have any effect. It is precisely a high measure that needs to ensure certain tax discipline. The government has already proposed, and this assembly adopted several measures directly affecting tax reductions. Tax cuts will definitely affect economic growth and this government, and I expect that this assembly will also adopt other measures related to tax exemptions, but in order to be accountable to the state, to the citizens, we must ensure that the budget is filled through responsible tax payments by introducing adequate, this time, high penalties, which, as in other countries in the world, will practically force taxpayers to pay very disciplinedly and fulfil their obligations. So we have to fully settle this whole tax system, make it possible for stimulating taxes, but also require that the tax obligations be met on time. The measures of the increase, any taxes or penalties, of course, are not popular for the government, but every government, I suppose, and this one, is not there to be popular. The government is there to run the state responsibly and be responsible for the exhibit, the highest exponent of the executive government. We will behave as responsible men, and thus lead this executive power. One more thing, yesterday in the debate, there was one thing that was mentioned about certain tax arrangements and how the G17 Plus people affected or didn't influence an adequate tax policy, so something was mentioned that I'm not sure about, which is that Mr Milo Djukanovic may be a mobster. I don't know if that's a fact, but the fact is, what's behind it here is within that same finding, which is that G17 plus certainly didn't negotiate and will not make deals with the mob. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2987	The word of the messenger of the people is Stevica the Dejanite; and let Michael be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am an MP for the Serbian Radical Party and I come from Vrsac. I had to point this out, because I come from the famous region of Vresca wineries, so we're directly affected by this scenic law. So, more than the others. The Excise Act directly hits the population's pocket in some parts and directly favours the import lobby in other parts. However, in light of the effects of the proposed measures, it is said that the reason for lifting the excise on diesel fuel is to charge the budget for another four billion. So all prices will go up, the majority of citizens will be additionally impoverished, so that the government of Vojislav Kostunica can finance, say, official travel or buy expensive electricity from godmothers. But further along, in the follow-up, it's said quite differently. In a work that I would especially like to stress, it is said that excise duty is paid, except for refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, and syrups, powders, fruit juices, concentrated fruit juices, fruit nectar and fruit juices powdered from imports, which is explained by the fact that this article promotes domestic production of these products and reduces production costs. I can agree with these facts or not, but the explanation is quite reasonable only until it is read or seen by Article 3. At the last session, when excise duties were discussed, an SRS amendment was adopted to protect domestic wine production. In your proposal for a law in Article 12, which speaks of alcoholic beverages, the excise tax is said to be paid on hot and other alcoholic beverages other than whiskey, gin, cognac, natural wines, medical wines and medicine. This law would protect the import lobby, protect people who are close to the authorities and who may have paid to pass such a law. The amendment of the SRS, which passed last time, inserted the word – domestic natural wines, and passed by only one vote, barely. As we have seen, he has caused great anxiety of the ruling set because he did not justify and did not finish a job that was probably promised to someone, so they have put before the Assembly of the Excise Act again, and they are putting the word – a party, which changes the law, which, if it passes, will read like this – on alcoholic beverages the excise tax is paid at the following amounts, and on "severe drinks and other alcoholic beverages, except whiskey, gin, cognac, import and domestic natural wines, medical wines and medicine." Now, I'd like to withdraw the parallel and remind you that for taxing import juices, you said it would protect domestic production, promote domestic production, which directly means that by not taxing foreign wines, you're destroying domestic production and protecting certain importers, it means import lobby. And the basements and vineyards, both big and small, with them it doesn't matter what happens next, it's important that the godmothers, since mostly the godfathers import, sell, and for the rest of us someone else should worry. I am personally and particularly interested in the fact that this law does not pass, because I come from Vrsac, as I have already said, a region with an age-old vineyard tradition. We understand what you're really trying to do. You want to make it even more difficult for the basement in Serbia, as we have heard earlier, to make it even more difficult for you to degrade them, as we have seen you do in the past period with other companies, and then buy them, or your financials gathered in various organisations, clubs and I don't know what everything, and install the purchase of Serbian companies preferably for three euros. Well, then, all the people in those companies on the street. But as I understand it, so does the people, which they have shown in the previous elections, and what they will show by voting for Tomislav Nikolic. The government of Vojislav Kostunica continues to destroy Serbia, but if you didn't understand and learn from the past period, the people understood, so someone got 200 and some 300,000 votes, you could ask your several Vrsac members to explain it to you and say it's bad and to destroy the peak wineries. They could have told you to raise your voice, so if you disobeyed them, to preserve their cheeks and to publicly fence themselves from you and your laws. After this, how are they gonna get on the street and amongst the common people? Or maybe they share some possible commission with you together, which you received in connection with the destruction of Serbian wineries, stretching sides. I warn you, in the end, not to play with the Serbian economy and the Serbian people. You've caused a lot of trouble, and you've left a lot of people with no bread, alone, just on the street. You've ruined a lot of people. It is realistic that you destroyed the economy and it is realistic that you destroyed Serbian banks, that you destroyed domestic production, that because of you we have sanctions on the export of sugar, that because of you we cannot export meat, it is realistic that we pay expensive electricity and that because of you millions of people are on the streets. So I invite you, anyone who has any honor, not to vote for this amendment to the law, so that you can pack up nicely, go home and get some rest, get dressed up, think about it, grab your family's hands, go to the polls on June 13th and say to yourself, what kind of delusion I was in and lived in... (Chairman, Emilia Krstic: Go back to the topic.) )......................................................................................................... I return, the topic is – vote for better Serbia, means for Serbia justice and better life, where thieves will be in prisons and not in power. Vote for Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2989	The word of the Messenger of the people is that of Sredo (Mihail) and after him is Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2990	Dear President, honourable MPs, just to say that you left us with chaos, that's what we inherited from you. There's one measure to measure the stability of the system, it's entropy. When entropy is one, it's chaos. You left us chaos in all the institutions. That's the topic, because you mentioned that people are hungry in Serbia. They're hungry because you brought them where they are and now we're trying somehow to get that car out of the mud, to sort out some fair laws, we're trying to make you conscious, to show you what you are and how far you've brought this country. Yes, gentlemen, we are in a hurry. That's what they need to hear, to remind the people. Every time I go out, I'll say that you've brought it to this point, to reduce that entropy to 0.5, to introduce a little order, because you've messed up everything you've left us. There's something I agree with you, and it's that we're in a hurry to pass these laws. It is true that he is in a hurry, but not because of us, but because of Serbia, and because of the public and because of this suffering people, to pass reform laws quickly. You insist on something that doesn't matter, you have important choices, you just think about winning... (President: Please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... How to give the people power again, to bring back where we were. I'll be back on the subject, and I've started on the subject. This was a one-digression thing. It was overwhelming to tell you. Mr. Dinkic has stepped in, determined a excise charge or a cut, not by heart, not by any chance, not by the hidduks, as you do, but by expertly, having a vision and knowing how to suggest it. Of course, we didn't pass the previous law completely and of course there was no real or fair relationship, that those who had to pay the excise fee were not equally taxed. You're up for it, gentlemen, so that those who drive cars on diesel don't pay their fees and spend even less than those who drive on gasoline pay more. It's your sense of justice, and you think it should stay that way. We don't consider all injustices, even if they're small, we want to eliminate them. What we can arrange in laws, to bring to some extent, where they will respect us, to see that we take care of everything, even small details. It could've been budgeted without that 3.5 billion, but, well, we just wanted to show that we're consistent, that we respect every little thing. (President: Please do not throw it to the MP. I'm trying to court you, but it's not helping. It doesn't matter. We'll go our separate ways. Those who go out here and comment, I know it's best to promise the people, and the easiest thing to do is to say, there will be no taxes, you'll all have high wages, which you're on the budget pads. There's no problem. That's what the communists did, that's what you want. That's what they did before World War II. They promised the people there wouldn't be any taxes. You'll all take as much as you want. We can't promise that, we're a serious party, there's got to be taxes and excises, and there's got to be a fair allocation, and that excise charge, those who spend on the budget have to have measures, it's gotta be realistic, it's gotta be possible and it's gotta be fair. That's what we're proposing, and you're fog dealers. You promise the people there will be no taxes and there will be wages. Look, gentlemen, what you're doing, even for some to say that they don't respect the laws, economically, how about now you start explaining to the people that you can build the house wrong, that you won't respect the force of the Earth's weight, and that you won't respect some mechanical laws and that this house will stand or that something will work without the laws of mechanics. Gentlemen, you're simply fog dealers, selling to the public lies and claiming that you can split the salary and fill the budget without a choice. That could never have happened and I would have respected you if you gentlemen had said - excises are lifted, we're going to cut the salary of the team and these budget users, for the record. Normally, you know, balance and budgetary balance, i.e. You don't know, but to educate you a little, there must be a balance between what's inflow, income and what's intended to be spent. It's also in the home budget, the one that doesn't work, that house goes for a living. That's what you were doing, and we went to the era. You sold everything, you destroyed everything, and that's why we got here with you guys to do it. So please, in the future when you answer, try to explain it professionally, when you consider it necessary to cancel a tax that needs to be abolished. That's what I was saying to the previous government. So when someone goes into opposition, when he's in power, he knows the laws have to apply, and when he comes to the opposition, he doesn't think the natural laws of inert are in force either. I know it's reliable for a debater who knows the laws have to be respected, even economically, so he came out here and claimed he could do it without it. I don't think it's enough to go to the opposition to say that something that's real doesn't have to be respected. Let me tell you gentlemen, true non-religion - works, not words; so we show works. We went out in front of you. G17 Plus will support this law and all laws that correct injustices, all laws that work for Serbia's sake. You're just obstructing, and I'm not going to use any of the words you're using, but either way, we have a vision, we have knowledge, we know what we want, and we're going to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2991	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2992	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like to replicate to the gentleman who spoke before me, I forgot his name... (President: His name is Mr. Michael. )......................................................................................................... I forgot whose MP he is. Because I couldn't figure it out, class is in power, class is in opposition. It seems to me the problem with the gentleman is the identity crisis of programs and ideologies. Because right now, he's attacking the law, and it's supposed to change, which he voted a few years ago to accept in general, the way he is. Now he wants to change it. When it comes to the results of the bill he voted for, what do we have, how many more workers without a job, how much less gross national income, how much domestic agriculture has been destroyed? The gentleman has been in power for the fourth year, one way or another, and now he's teaching us how to rule, and the results of his authorities are also visible, especially in the part where he says we're nervous, when he says this is a pre-election campaign. As far as I can see, during his bitter speech, I am obviously aware of the anxiety and fear that he will lose power, as it is a promise from his party's president, if Tomislav Nikolic is the president of the Republic, he will leave the government of the Republic of Serbia and stop dealing with politics. Wisely for a party president, there's nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2993	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2994	Mr. Markovic, I warn you of Article 99, where it says that the speaker cannot be interrupted, as well as a member of the Rules of Procedure by whom the speaker is required to speak about what is on the agenda. In either case, you did not respect the Rules of Procedure as MP Sredoje Mihajlov spoke unrelatedly from the agenda. The only thing he said exactly is that we Serbian radicals have in our heads and that he, contrary to us, has nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2995	Mr Mircic, under the same article, no one has the right to interrupt a speaker other than the President of the Assembly, when the Rules of Procedure is violated, and I warn you that you do not have the right to insult MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2996	I'm just quoting part of the presentation of Ambassador Michael. You see, you've made a mistake not respecting the Rules of Procedure and warning him. Of course, I didn't expect him to change his psychological condition or mentally, intellectually, but you had to respect the Rules of Procedure. What is evident, my sincere desire is to help my colleague. Col. Mihajlov, on the agenda is, among other things, the excise law, which you used to bring, cancel, change, and you personally helped from me, you are currently in a political party called G17, you were with Veselinov earlier, you were with the SPO, and you are currently in the Serbian Parliament. If I've been able to help you as much as possible, I thank you, and I've done a great deal for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2997	The president of the assembly is obliged to give an explanation, of course. When I came in, he was an MP not to talk about the subject, and he came back on the subject, as you know. And please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure, there's no reason. Here you go, replica, after Mr Mircic's report to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Michael has a right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2998	Ladies and gentlemen, everything is relative and I'm not asking you to warn Mr. Mircic at all. They say in Belgrade the weather is going to spoil, it's going to rain. If that's in July, then it's the best time that can happen to our bananas, to make it rain. It's all relative. So here about this discussion. If I were offended by a tall intellectual, a man I greatly respect, a lot of respect for, it would hit me and I'd be sorry. If someone insults me, or intends to offend me, someone I don't have a high opinion of, there's no need to intervene at all, Mr. President, so I'm totally calm.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u2999	It's my duty to work on the Rules of Procedure and the law is the same for everyone. Therefore, there is no reason for you to ask me to give it up. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3000	Mr. Markovic, as you advised me yesterday, here, I'll quote you article 100. The Rules of Procedure, and you know very well as the chairman of the Assembly that no one has the right to insult the dignity of the Assembly and the MPs who have been elected here and do the will of the people. Mr. Sredoje Mihailov is an MP from several groups and parliamentary groups. I've known him for ten years through a series of unfortunate circumstances, because he was an MP to the Council of Citizens of the Federal Assembly, some autonomous group when I was an MP back in 1996. Mr. Sredoje Mihajlov as a person who seeks and maneuvers in political space, where he can only grant one parliamentary mandate, can really not use the assembly pay phone to offend one of the appointed Republika Srpska Assembly in multi-party Serbia, Mr. Milorad Mircic, who, ladies and gentlemen, is in charge as chairman of the Defence and Security Committee for all of you and all of Serbia's citizens. Therefore, you must take care of yourself, Mr. Michael. Among other things, for the function of Mr Mircic, who has made visible shifts in these difficult moments for our country and our people, especially when it comes to the situation of the loss of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija – laugh, especially you from G17, it's funny to you, you have long given up our southern provinces, and you have made it public and written it in your declaration – then you can't use a pay phone and in such an offensive way you would probably turn to someone with whom you are an ordinary citizen of Zrenjanin, and you're not exactly, because all sorts of stories are coming about you in the city where you live, you could pass without looking at you. Like this, he's a nice gentleman, a Serbian radical, who will contact you in the hallway, anywhere to meet you, but you need to know where you belong in some building of MPs, past work in this assembly and in Serbia's political life at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3001	I warn you, Miss Jovanovic, under the same article in the 100th, that you respect the MPs of the National Assembly. As you know, there is no graduation among MPs, all MPs are equal, just as there is no one in the Serbian Parliament who is in charge of the security of Serbian citizens. God forbid, there's someone who controls the executive power. Replication to a speech on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3002	Yes, Miss Jovanovic and I were really in the Citizens' Council. And she was in power then, yes, Miss Jovanovic, then you were. And Mr. Sredoje Mihajlov is the only MP – and there is former President Mr. Minic – who publicly requested the resignation of Mr. Milosevic. You weren't up for that resignation. You supported it and you pushed Kosovo away from us. Then I warned you that what had come to pass, like all the messengers who were. And it is my duty to remind the public of all this again, is that for you it is relative, you think that you are once again knights in the lost Serbian spaces of Karlobag-Karlovac-Virovitica, that's your idea, your program. I know your program well, I know how far you've gotten with that program of yours, and for the sake of the Serbian public, don't forget, you've wasted it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3003	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, the speaker is also obliged when he appears on the line to speak the truth and respect the dignity of the Assembly, especially when he talks about some past, past times and about the participation of individual MPs or political parties in events that are part of a newer history in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3005	I didn't hear a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3006	Now I'll tell you, I'm advertising Article 100 again. The Rules of Procedure, because that's Mr. Michael's second injury. By not knowing what was going on and how the SRS worked in 1996 in the Federal Assembly and in the Serbian Parliament, it is his ignorance of the work of us as MPs, and even what was happening on the political scene of Serbia. Mr. Sredoje Mihajlov was an MP of some autonomic group, God knows which more and who will remember it, because they remain completely anonymous and without a standstill in the electoral body of our citizens, so it is unnecessarily talk about it. For the sake of truth, the Serbian Radical Party won the presidential elections in 1997, as well as next year, was the strongest opposition to then the current regime, which won a landslide victory in the presidential elections in 1997, in parliamentary elections, and here's history repeats, the wave of radicalism again, which greatly rocked Serbia. Wait on June 13th, and you will see further developments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3007	The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3008	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I fully understand the government's haste, as one of the previous speakers said. But just because you're in a hurry doesn't mean you have to break certain standards. Here, ever since this House was established, he's been sitting around all the time in an emergency procedure. Sometimes it's justifiable, and in most cases it's not. The minister himself said a few days ago that certain laws that are here in the procedure were only effective in September of this year. I really don't see why we have to discuss them in an emergency procedure. Furthermore, when it comes to uniting discussions in principle, it has become a practice for the ruling majority to mix grandmothers and frogs, to put everything in one basket. That's totally understandable. In this way you are trying to destimulate the opposition MPs to prepare properly for all the laws, but as far as the MPs of the SRS are concerned, you are obviously wrong, because we are fundamentally preparing ourselves for every proposed law and we are always being justified for this speaker. I just wouldn't be surprised if at the next session, you just shut down the debate. What do you need it for when everything goes the way the government does anyway? What has particularly startled me is the item of the agenda – the bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. Gentlemen, this tall house was discussing this and making a decision 20 days ago. Why are you humiliating this House? This is the highest state institution there is. You have violated the basic democratic principle of dividing the authorities into legislative, executive and judicial. You can't do that, you can't do that. That's exactly the essence of the division of power, that it doesn't go all the way to the government it wants. This is the control and that balance, that parliament controls the government. It can't all be what the government wants. That's why there's a parliament. Then you'll have to put an end to the parliament, for what it's worth. As far as the bill itself is concerned, in Article 2, you foresee an increase in the excise duty on diesel fuel, a higher amount of excise duty is prescribed, from the current amount of 13.76 dinars to 16.66 and 2.90 dinars per litre, respectively. With this increase, it is certain that the most overruns will be the fallen Serbian economy anyway, large industrial giants that are exclusively diesel consumers, then agricultural producers, although many of these speakers dispute and, of course, there will be a collection of transport costs, because all transporters, such as goods, human services, are exclusively used by diesel fuel. The minister says that these excises will send 3.5 billion dinars to the budget. Furthermore, you are trying to devalue what this assembly voted 20 days ago, adopting a truly remarkable amendment, proposed by the SRS parliamentary group, when it comes to the introduction of an excise on the side of the wine. The fellow who submitted the amendment has indeed made it very professional, thorough and reasoned to the MPs. Most of them voted for it, but the minister obviously disagreed. He explains that by abolishing the excise duty on import wines, medical wines and medicine, it achieves compliance with European Union regulations. The next member, where excise duty is introduced for foreign juices, says production costs are reduced and domestic production is stimulated. How can we get rid of the foreign wine excise to coordinate with the European Union, and here to help produce fruit growing? Something's wrong. Isn't the introduction of excise duties to foreign wines helping winemaking and agricultural production in this sector in our country? It's one of the simplest demagogy, the double arches when it comes to it. As regards the very reason for the adoption of the law, this proposal sets out three reasons: the gradual harmonisation of excise policy with European Union regulations. Excellent, gentlemen, you've harmonised the prices, you've harmonised the taxes, you've aligned the excise duties with the European Union's regulations. There is only one small thing left for you – to reconcile your personal incomes with those they have in the countries of the European Union and then you finish your work. The third point and one of the reasons for the law is to secure the inflow of funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's exactly the main reason for putting this law back on the agenda, because this government, like it's doing all the wrong, did it wrong with the budget. You have brought the first budget, which is based on non-existent sources of income, or inflows into that budget, on some imaginary, non-existent laws, and only after the adoption of the budget do you come to the assembly with a bill to fill the budget. When what happened to you, that most MPs either reject or modify the amendments, you come to a situation where you have a huge budget deficit and you don't know what to do. I'm very interested in how now those MPs or those government supporters, as I like to call them, will be put in place when it comes to this bill, which supported some of the amendments last time. Are they going to criticise them again and adopt them or are they going to put their heads down in the voting day and vote the way "Daddy says it"? In the end, I would remind you, that I do not take up much of the time of the parliamentary group, that 23 MPs sat in this home in the past meeting. The 23 broke the neck of that political mutant called DOS, and today there are 82 SRS MPs in the Serbian Parliament, and you are much less ruling. Lately, your neck's lost a lot of weight, and he's about to die.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3009	The People's Messenger, Milorad Albianic, has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3010	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, G17 plus has made a comprehensive programme and is implementing this programme in practice. So here we see the fulfillment of our pre-election promises. I still have to look back on our opponent's political agenda. It all reminds me of that folk custom before Christmas, when you bring in straw and you yell "kwow, kwow, drink, drink." And here you are when you enter the congregation, waving the program... (President: Please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... You say it's real, three dinars of bread, and instead of the program, bring us straw. Don't make straw bread, gentlemen. Of all the laws, the budget is the most important and the budget established revenue and expenditure. If we look at the revenues, we heard a report from the ministry, that the budget was balanced in the previous period and that the revenues were significantly increased compared to last year. So after the implementation of the TR-84 plan to curb smuggling, the tax on traffic is 22% higher and the excise charge is 50% higher. If we add here that for this year industrial production is projected to grow by 2%, and in the first quarter is 11.7%, it means that it is realistic that some plan is 6%. We have two laws before us, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration and amendments to the Excise Act. These laws increase penalties for avoidance and tax evasion. They're now 5%, and it's going to be 2 to 20 times the tax liability that's been subdued. On the other hand, the minimum penalty, let's say who's cutting off one dinar of taxes is going to pay 5,000 dinars. The tax procedure will become faster and more efficient this way. The operational application of this law refers to curbing the gray economy. As far as amending the Excise Act is concerned, it is in fact the introduction of a proportion, i.e. equalising the tax on diesel and gasoline. The intention of the Ministry is clear, on the one hand, because tax incentives will disburse production, and on the other hand, by introducing excises, they will burden the process, because the budget has to be balanced. In this way, the internal economic opportunities are stabilised, but I must point out that this is how the continuation of international financial co-operation is actually opened. So Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic and Deputy Prime Minister Mr Labus are responsible for continuing co-operation with the IMF and the World Bank; this is G17 Plus policy, co-operation with Europe and the world. I must say that in this way our negotiators are actually back in play, because the first arrangement with the IMF was made by Mr Labus, and the last arrangement, as governor of the National Bank of Serbia, was concluded by Mr Dinkic. I hear these days...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3011	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3012	... Try to minimize the importance of this agreement and say that we had to make some concessions, that we had to accept certain conditions. I need to get to know you that the IMF and access to its instruments require certain conditions, and now I will tell you which: this is the existence of adequate policy for balance of payments, growth, increased employment, financial stability, structural reforms, etc. And the G17 plus actually advocates growth, stability, reform, increase in production, increase in economy. That's what we want, we want and we can. G17 plus will support these legal solutions, G17 plus calls for other political parties to support these laws. I'll end up with a simple sentence: it's high time to go to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3013	The People's Messenger Milorad Krstin has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger... On what grounds? Did he mention the MPs? Did the SRS mention it? Here, a replica based on the mention of the party, the authorised representative of the SRS, Mr Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3014	I wanted to rephrase to the gentleman who spoke just before me and spoke offensively to the MPs of the SRS. He said the budget was the most important law a congregation should pass. Yes, I agree, but why have you united the debate with four other laws when the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia was, and here you can see how important the budget is to you. Furthermore, the MPs here are mostly the ruling majority full of stories about how they will increase the standard of living of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so I would just like to remind myself whether the Labour Law, the disproved workers, are now losing their jobs, if we are going to do so with this law on work voted from Thessaloniki, and the conclusion of the president of your party is - no matter where it was voted for the reform law, it is important that it is passed. Did Mr Labus and Dinkic, the holders of the economic programme of the Republic of Serbia, as you would like to say, when they visited both the World Bank and the IMF, lead a single businessman from the Republic of Serbia. At least try to make any business arrangements. Only Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic may have been led, they are your friends, but they are not friends of Serbian citizens. With such behaviour, the expert economic group, which had been in power for two and a half years in the previous government, is now continuing the continuity of the government and the programme that was still valid and is now valid. The earth introduces into debt slavery. Will your bread, sir, be cheaper when you raise the price of diesel fuel, when we've been poored and destroyed by agricultural production anyway? I'm sure he won't. And according to that story Mr. Dinkic told yesterday, when I said that MPs don't believe their eyes, but to trust Mr. Minister, now I'm going to tell you, let the citizens not believe themselves that they're out of work, let them not believe themselves that they can't pay electricity, let them not trust themselves that they can't pay taxes, let them not believe themselves to be hungry. Trust the G17 Plus expert group that you're doing great.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3015	The People's Messenger Milorad Krstin has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Snježana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that G17 plus gentlemen must first mention the SRS in order to make their winds work and then return to the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3017	Go back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3018	It is interesting, and perhaps better that I did not report for the first time, within a full month, at the eighth session of the First Regular Session and now at the 11th session of the First Regular Session, the item of the agenda is the same, and this is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Act of Accises. My report is about excises on oil derivatives and diesel fuel. It's interesting that since 14 April, when it was supposed to be a voting day, and you probably couldn't agree, you've returned this point again because the minister is missing another four billion dinars in the budget. However, I am sorry that the minister is not here to listen to all those radicals who have come to point out the failures of these amendments and the addition of the Excise Act. He probably thinks he's so smart that what's real, quality, can't get into his head. He says here, Minister, that excise policy is gradually in line with the legal solution in the Republic of Montenegro and with European Union regulations. I understand the European Union's rules, but if he agrees with Milo Djukanovic about cigarettes and excises, I don't think anything will go into the Republic of Serbia's budget, but someone's private pockets. As for the distance between motor gasoline and diesel fuels, gentlemen, you've raised motor gasoline, now it's super 57.20 dinars, you've raised it, you've made a big difference between 36.80 dinars and it, it's just an excuse for you -- a budget total. I don't know if you will, and probably will, I can see that you've gone so far and you're putting everything into an emergency procedure, and about September, you're going to raise the gas up again, you're going to get to about 65 or 70 dinars, and again, there's going to be this disparity between diesel and diesel fuel, and the increase is going to come up as a new item of the agenda, probably in the fall session, if there's any after-election. When we talk about diesel, I couldn't help but mention what's most important, who are the biggest diesel consumers in Serbia. Individual agricultural producers, together with agricultural combinations and cooperatives. Here at the eighth session of the First Regular Session, you proposed an oil excise on diesel products at 16.76, from the normal previous 13.76, and now you propose in Article 2 at the 11th session of the First Regular Session of 16.66. Interestingly, the minister did this extensively, and ten pairs dropped the excise on diesel. Well done. I don't think the farmers will ever forget him. As far as the grounds for entry into force are concerned, before the eighth day of the day of publication, my fellow Members, is that of Article 120. Serbia's constitution allows for entry into force before the eighth day of its publication, but I think when the new constitution is established, you gentlemen should see that you write before the eighth day, but if necessary, because you always need it. The additional four billion in this certainly won't stay for four billion, knowing that individual agricultural producers have been regressed fuel, 30 liters per hectare, and I need to get to know you that 30 liters per hectare is certainly small. Someone who made that thought that a man was driving out a tractor and immediately started plowing the bushes, like Turks. There's no agricultural producer who's not and doesn't have at least five to ten kilometers away from his processing surface, and one IMT 539 to those less than 10 kilometers spends 10 liters until he goes there, so in order to process the spring set he has to go first with a plate, then go with a set of cooks or a Conskider, and then he has to sow, twice, if he has a wild orphan who, by the way, occupied the Duke's surfaces, and he's got to spray twice, with what he's going to go with double sparring. I'm asking you gentlemen, these six, seven stores who can still handle 30 liters of regressed speech, and in order for individual farmers to do so, they must buy at least 50 liters of oil. Those 50 liters of oil will cover everything you've regressed, my dear colleagues and my dear friends, and it won't be possible to respect a farmer, you've been miserable enough to bear a burden in the last 14 years, and you're pulling the last atom of strength or the last dinar out of your pocket. Then, it's normal to ask why and why individual agricultural producers, and especially nursing households, stand like this, thanks to your monetary and financial policy, the one that will certainly only reverse this fallen agriculture anyway. The SRS will certainly not support this law or the draft law on amendments to the Excise Act, because it is nakaradan, it is not good, it is to the detriment of most those who use diesel fuel, which are individual agricultural holdings, together with agricultural combinations and cooperatives. This is why the SRS will not support this bill for the second time, because it is realistic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3019	National Pslanik Radovan Teodorović, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3020	I really couldn't help but go out and talk to my peasants. Here everyone takes for granted the right to talk, and you know it and you see that many here understand, like the Mara stream in the wrong tree, in agriculture. I'd like to ask them to leave the farm. I mean, now there's a little and 30 gallons of oil per hectare, and do you remember when we were wearing coke bottles, you forgot that. During some of the former authorities, which is why I ask you to take good care of yourself, because many peasants look at you and listen to what you're doing. We haven't started talking about agriculture yet, and already get a colleague, get you, that's not nice. You have 13 choices, you win, you win, all of this is gonna be our people watching, and they're gonna take good care of who they vote for. Get a colleague of yours, too. Vote for radicals if you want to have the farm we had... (Chairman: No tossing.) )......................................................................................................... In the 1990s. Were they, gentlemen, in power? They paid for your wheat by the dove. Many peasants didn't even charge for it. They were all in power as they worked for agriculture, it should be a disgrace to everyone. Please take good care when you use agriculture and peasants.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3021	On what basis do you want the word? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3022	I'm sorry, but I have to say to an esteemed colleague, I've not been insulting individual agricultural producers and agriculture with my own exposure. My father left me in my dear Zrenjanin and in the vicinity of Zrenjanin over 30 acres of land, 77 years old man, I work it, I know how to work the land, and which in the fall is modeled and which in the spring is modeled, and I know exactly how much work is done, and I didn't ask you if you have or don't have, that's your thing. So don't prejudge things, the ones I didn't say here, I just said that 30 liters is real little. It is certain that these 30 liters will not be able to do a hectare of land, with a departure of 5 - 10 kilometers [5 - 10 km] from its household and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3023	On what grounds? Why do you want a word now? Please don't abuse article 100. A 100th member of the Assembly is being misused for replication. You want a replica now? You want a replica because he misread you. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3024	I respect my colleague, Christine, if that's the case. But, gentlemen, I want to remind you that I am one of the three peasants who introduced himself here as a peasant living exclusively from agricultural production. If Dad left someone else, and he doesn't, he doesn't feel it. I am a clean agricultural producer and live exclusively from agricultural production and two other colleagues, Mr. Mika Vlaović and Mr. Dragan Rafaelovic. From what I've seen, out of 250 MPs, is there any shame in putting him as a peasant? If it's a shame, don't put it on, I'm not, I'm proud to be a peasant and represent my peasants, and the Swords, and the Adriatic, and the Pocerina and all of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3025	On what basis do you want the word? You caused the replica, this was a replica. You've come out, will you listen to me, don't argue with me, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, and the gentleman has received a replica of your speech. You can't get a line now, you can get a line by the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3026	I have no intention of stalling, really this assembly is supposed to work, the people are sick of this kind of persuasion, but I have to say that the thirty and a few acres do to me, Milorad Kristin, and that's me. If someone else is working for you, I didn't say I was a farmer, but I said my family is traditionally a farmer. I live in a village that celebrated last year 800 years of existence, so, I don't see, colleague, which is why you're particularly angry with me, because I've just stepped into the protection of farmers and agriculture for diesel fuel.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3027	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, followed by Momir Markovic. The remaining time is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3028	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope you will support me in the drive to return this discussion to some more peaceful streams and return to the topic we are talking about. When you find yourself in the opportunity where I am now, to talk about things that are common knowledge and about which many others have spoken before you, you may happen to turn the opportunity into trouble and fall into some of the traps. Namely, you can become unspeakably boring, if you repeat everything your predecessors have said, and it may also happen that in an attempt to explain something that is already clear to everyone, in some way, you bring your listeners in a position to be hurt or to have the impression that you have underestimated them. I'll try to avoid both traps, but I'll ask you in advance for an apology if that happens. In that sense, perhaps precisely because of that, I want to share with you a personal experience, and that is my first association of words that are mentioned here, today, most often, as these days, and that is, above all, tax. This association is about my years of professional experience as psychologists, and it concerns one question that was contained in one, I can say, the most used IQ test for children, and the question is – why is it necessary to pay taxes? This is a very difficult question for younger children and children of lower intelligence, because they simply do not know how society works. Then, they are unable to think abstractly, meaning a little longer and, in the end, they are unable to overcome the stage of egocentricism in which they are located. It's for some older kids, more intelligent, elementary school kids, this isn't a difficult question. Those with ease respond to the need to pay taxes in order to finance common costs, that it takes hospitals, schools, to build roads. I am convinced that for any older citizen of Serbia, and certainly for us here, that question is not difficult and that we all agree on it. I know what a difficult question it is for us. That's the first question. It's a matter of tax policy. But already this one step leads us to a very complex debate about what the right tax policy is and to a debate that is qualified to be led only by sophisticated experts, and I'm going to apologize to someone for using a word they don't like, which only experts can use. In that sense, I fully represent the citizens of Serbia, because as they do very little I know about these issues and we remain to trust the experts. As an educated layman, I trust the experts, and I respect every day that they have devoted themselves to learning this very complex problem. In that sense, I really believe all the knowledge that Mr. Bozidar Djelic owns, and Mr. Mladjan Dinkic and Mr. Vlahovic here are present, and many other experts, Professor Labus and others. Unfortunately, however, we often get into a situation known to our citizens when two experts have three opinions. Then what do you do, ladies and gentlemen? In this situation, all we have is trust. We can have him in one or the other experts. You, of course, know which experts I trust. (Glasses: Theme.) ) The theme, of course, is trust and is trust in tax policy led by one group or another. I think I explained that to those who listen very carefully. (President: Please don't win. So, ladies and gentlemen, we're back on the subject of trust. The topic of trust also has two aspects. There's one that's irrational, someone who's just nice to you or not, and he's got the other one that's rational, and it's about the previous experience. And what does the previous experience of Serbian citizens indicate? Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that I do not belong to the defenders of any character and act. On the contrary, I advocate democratic, contrary to authoritarian patterns in society. So, I don't wear anyone's character on a lapel, and in my heart I only carry the characters of my children, my family, and my friends. But what I'm about to say... (President: Please get back on topic a little bit. )......................................................................................................... It's true, she's objective and that's what's real. Serbian citizens trust Mladjan Dinkic. They trust the current finance minister, as they trusted Governor Mladjan Dinkic. Why? Because of previous experience. Because the monetary policy he ran felt in his pocket. And, no matter how much you think and fabricate affairs, no matter how hard you try to make them imaginative, they're not. They have a lack of creativity and make their promoters funny. Serbian citizens, Mladjan Dinkic, are tied to a stable dinar and are therefore trusted. And why should the current finance ministry be trusted? We talked about it a little over a month ago, when we adopted the budget. They proposed a budget many claimed to be unrealistic. They have proposed a tax policy that is a topic, you will agree, which many have also claimed is unrealistic. However, here, this recent experience has made it not so. We have a very real and very viable budget. You said it wouldn't be possible to finance budget expenditures, that budget revenues would be questionable. It's not like that. We have real growth in budget revenues, the budget is charged at an expected pace, all budget expenditures are financed, inflation will not be greater than expected. On the contrary, it will be smaller. This budget is a developmental one, because it will allow the economy to develop. Economic growth has already been recorded in the first... (President: Please return to the topic. This is the topic. The subject is tax policy. That's why it's necessary to adopt excise duties on diesel, which are the subject, I hope you'll agree. Why is it necessary to adopt them? Because this budget would continue to be maintained in favour of all Serbian citizens. So, why else is it necessary? Because, and you've already heard that, if I have to repeat, the gap between the price of gasoline and the price of diesel should not be so high. And how is that going to reflect, ladies and gentlemen, on the standard of citizens? It will be positively reflected because all the budgets are talking about the expected inflation being in the proportions that are foreseen. And because, even if the full price of increased excise duties is installed in retail prices, they will be installed at only 0.4 percent, or inflation. (President: Time. Are we actually ready to grow ourselves? Are we ready to put general interests above individual interests? Are we ready to think a little longer and are we finally ready to put individual and party self-centerism somewhere below the common interest... (President: I warn you of excessive time. )......................................................................................................... and under the interest of all Serbian citizens? It is today, ladies and gentlemen, a question, as many other days are the basic question in this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3029	The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then by Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3030	I'd like to advertise article 100. The previous speaker was talking about some kids going to elementary school, kids going to high school. I don't think that's the point. He said grown men and high school students already know what to finance from the budget. I'm saying they don't know everything, because from the budget, let's say, you pay the Agency for the improvement of the state administration, and you have the Ministry of State Administration; so now the question is, why are we giving one of them money, why are we giving money to others; so you have the Agency for Public Relations of the Government of Serbia, so the question arises why is that agency when you have a Prime Minister, you have a secretary of government. Why does an agency do that? Why do these people spend budget money? I've already listed these agencies, and I wouldn't want that to happen again. In any case, SRS MPs believe that the revenues the budget makes can be spent much more savings, and much more rational and more practical in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I see no one's interest here, but some individuals, like. item – 8.5 billion specialised services. No one's said where that money's being spent yet. They say science is developing. What kind of science spends specialized services in that amount? It is half the pension paid by the government of the Republic of Serbia from the budget of the PIO funds. Then you have, says the previous speaker, 0.4% that it will reflect. Convince me that three dinars is less than 16 pairs equal to zero. That's what you convince me to do, and then I'll believe you. However, there was an MP who mathematically convinced me of everything and everything, entertained me in the past, but this would be too much for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3031	What you've advertised is not a member of 100, but a member of 99, but I'll tell you that a larger number of MPs, not to say the vast majority, jumps out of the agenda theme. Replica, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3032	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the previous nice words that the MP referred to, as regards my expert engagement in the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period. I think the basic characteristic of the experates is to be principled and to use this principle both when criticizing and when something, among other things, is commended. In a particular case, given that the further flow of the Parliamentarian's statement was also concerned by the budget, the reality of the estimated revenues, I must say not only my position, but the position of the DS, that the budget was unreally set for this year. We elaborated this in detail during the discussion of the 2004 Budget Law. Of course, that was so fast we got proof that we were right. One of these evidences, that budget revenues are unreal, is this law we're discussing today, which is the Excise Act. By amending and supplementing the Excise Act, we are in fact getting the effect of increasing the budget revenues achieved through additional burden on the economy and the population, so that the budget previously put into real terms. As proof that, directly, one month after the debate on the Budget Law, our delegation, the government delegation, accepted the IMF's proposal on the amount of the budget deficit of 30 billion dinars, not 45 billion, as set out in the Budget Law, and therefore we very quickly expect a debate in this Parliament on amendments and additions to the Budget Law, so that these budgetary revenue frameworks and budgetary expenditures will be brought down to a real extent. As for the growth of industrial production in the first three months, be assured that it has nothing to do with the new government or any new economic policy. It is the effect of what the government did, the previous one, in 2003, primarily in the field of privatisation. That's what we talked about all the time during 2003, that the full effect of privatisation in 2003 would be reflected in 2004, because it took time for new owners... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... implement the restructuring of companies, both business and financial, and only then do this reflect the growth of the industrial volume of production. Nor is the climate fixed, on the contrary, the investment climate is worsened. We are witnessing that there are no large investments, no interest from international companies, no economic policy has contributed to better trends, it is simply an effect of what was done in the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3033	Branislav Ristivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3034	Dear colleague, Mr. Arsic, just to intervene on one part of your exposure. You probably didn't send the last changes to the official messenger. Nine agencies, set up by the previous government, have abolished the government. Among other things, the Agency for the Promotion of the State Administration, which you mentioned for this pay phone, for the very reason you're talking about. It was the bodies, the parliaments, which were not founded by law, so that they would not have to pass the sanctions of this parliament, as the ministries pass. When something was wanted to be pushed under the carpet, done beyond the knowledge of the legislative authority, then agencies were established in the previous authorities, by sublaw, regulations. The heads of these bodies were appointed directors, nor were ministers, nor were ministries, had not had to pass sanctions in parliament, nor knew what was being done and where was being done. We intervened by removing nine such bodies. I'm saying, you mentioned here the Agency for the Promotion of State Administration; it's been abolished, it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3035	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100, colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3036	I really thank Mr. Vlahovic for explaining some things that certainly, many of us, are not clear. I want to tell him that he misread my exposure. I don't mean to argue with Mr. Vlahovic on some issues, because I'm certainly not up to it. But I pointed out in my speech to what is the fact, which is that Mr. Vlahovic has a different opinion than other experts and there is no need to explain all these professional opinions again. Citizens can trust one or the other based on their experiences. It's just what she died.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3037	National MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure. You're advertising Article 97.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3038	That member can, because in my previous presentation, I didn't mention the DSS parliamentary group at all. I mentioned the government and the government should have a representative here to defend it. Mr. Ristivojevic can't be a government spokesman or take her for protection. He is an MP for the ruling majority, but he should defend his parliamentary group. Mr Ristivojevic, I'm glad you listened to the SRS parliamentary group when it came to the agencies set up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm glad, because I'm going to take a look at that official messenger, and I'm going to compare it to my stenogram, when the Ministry employee recorded what I was talking about and what agencies I was counting on. I'm sure those agencies are now, by means of a new sublegal act, abolished. I wish, Mr. Ristivoevich, you'd listen to us all. Then you'd probably stay in power for the next 20 years, but you're not listening. Besides, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3039	Replica, direct mention, MP Branislav Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3040	My dear colleague, Mr. Arsic, I may not be a spokesman for the government, but you can't go out behind this pay phone and say something that isn't true is not true. These agencies don't exist, they're out, end of story. They were not abolished because you asked for it, but they were abolished because it was our pre-election programme, because we realized that it was wrong, because we based our campaign on it, because we started from assuming that the formation of these agencies serves to hide something in this country, so that, as it turns out today, it's transparent, or it's not public, that spending money can be put away and that, in practice, it can be protected from sanctions of this Parliament. There is no body of the ministry's rank that exists in this country and should not exist without passing sanctions in parliament and that the man who will lead it, the minister, does not pass the sanctions in parliament. That's why we taught these agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3041	On what basis do you want the word? He had a replica. You can't get a replica, because you're the one who caused the replica. This was a replica. You can abuse the Rules of Procedure and get word to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3042	I have just pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure (President: Just tell me which member you are now advertising. ) How Mr Ristivojevic violated him, because he came out again to defend the government's views of the Republic of Serbia, not the DSS parliamentary group. I would like to refer a question to Mr Ristivojevic: what about the money these agencies received from the budget of the Republic of Serbia under the 2004 Budget Law? What about the workers who worked in those agencies? Do you want to submit a list of these workers to see who they are and whose relatives they are, whether they're relatives to someone from the previous government, whether they're relatives to someone from the current government, whether they're assigned to other ministries and other authorities of the state administration, answer us that. You have now abolished the agencies, but the number of workers working in those agencies and those workers have been transferred to other ministries, and in the end we have not received anything, no budgetary savings has been done by this procedure by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3043	National MP Veroljub Arsic came out looking for the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branislav Ristivojevic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3044	Dear colleague Mr. Arsic, whether the employees of those agencies have been wiped by rubber or moved to another body or are employed to work in some ministries, is the essence of what I was talking about and you don't recognize it. The main thing is the public work of the executive government. The body of the ministry's rank cannot be established by means of a sublegal act and cannot hide from the sanctions of the body where you sit. As to whether there are any relatives of the former or current government in those agencies, what if there are relatives, members of the SRS, in those agencies? What difference does it make if there's a relative in this government or that government? Maybe there's some of your cousins in those agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3045	The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, followed by the MP Miodrag Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3046	Before I move on to the subject, just a few words. My colleague just said she's not wearing a character of a dear leader. I'm very sorry that all her leaders are as impersonal as there are...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3047	Please control the terms at your disposal when discussing the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3048	Even those on PINK TV couldn't take their character off. We, and all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, and all 360,000 Serbian radicals, and many citizens of Serbia, while Professor Vojislav Seselj is in The Hague, will carry the image of our president, and we hope it won't be long. The next year, we're gonna take that badge off and he's gonna come down here and he's gonna sit here if he doesn't sit in the government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have received a proposal for a law supplementing the Excise Act with a proposal to agree to Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be brought by emergency procedure. It has not been a month since we had this law on the agenda, and thanks to the amendments, above all to the MPs of the SRS, we have knocked down a good part of that excise law by taking down the taxes on holding and carrying goods, primarily by taking down taxes on mobile phones and not allowing the price of the elevator to increase according to the proposal that Minister Dinkic suggested. That's what we protected, no matter how many people show up and drill into their chests, all their breasts flood from hitting how they farmers, as they think and care for farmers, care for peasants, that's exactly how we in the SRS protect the standard of farmers. We have also protected the standard of all citizens of Serbia, because whoever pays 40 dinars of oil and produces a certain product, pays another 40 dinars per litre to make it on the market, he must install it at the price of the product. Then it's Dinkic's inability to second-guess the budget we all pay. We from the SRS knew that the moment the government was formed and the ministries were divided by verticals, so certain parliamentary groups were given to ministers, deputies, assistants and to the lowest officials, we knew that the most problems would be in the ministry just received by the G17 per cent parliamentary group. In doing so, I have to quote a respected academic, I've listened to him several times at TV shows, and whenever he has a chance to use it and he says a Vranian folk proverb -- fox and haji to be, he'll catch chickens again. To deploy Dinkic, ladies and gentlemen, that by any chance you are in a situation, for a patriarch, he will again rob Serbian citizens. Dinkic should be kept away from the vault.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3049	Please control the terminology you're using. This is the second warning you've received.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3050	I'm trying to control it. Dinkic should be kept away from the vault, from the time he was armed, occupied by the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Since we Serbian radicals are known for telling the truth and when we accidentally slip away from saying something, we, in the next exhibition, correct what we said. I have to correct Mr. Radovanovic. The other day, he said Dinkic came in with hackers and phantoms at the National Bank. It wasn't them, Mr. Radovanovic, the heklers, but they were Kalashnikovs and they weren't phantoms, they were socks.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3051	Would you be kind enough to respect Article 99(1)? I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3052	Here, I'm trying. Mr Dinkic, if you vote for this part – I am talking about the excise on diesel fuel, because I am trying to give the parliamentary group a little more time to talk about other bill proposals by other MPs – if you vote on amending and supplementing the Excise Act, fill in a four-billion-dollar gap in the budget. A 40-billion-dollar hole, because it was so much shorter in the budget when it was planned, it won't be able to fill. A hole in conscience, honor, expertise, morality, etc. I don't know if he can fill anything. The chairman asks me to respect the minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3053	I ask that you respect Rules of Procedure, Rule 99.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3054	Yesterday, the minister demeaned all MPs, and I ask the minister, may it be his last time in this house to demean and insult the MPs, especially the MPs of the SRS. It's not a threat. I'm trying to teach him good manners. The minister's mind is the price of gasoline and oil. Then why don't you get the gas back? Why, if it's the government, if it's the minister, if you're the government, why don't you find other ways to fill the budget, but you always take it off the back of Serbian citizens. Does the minister know that only this increase will have a drastic impact on the price rise for a little while and thus on the standard of all citizens? The fact that the minister provides statistics that 11.6% of gross product, 9% of national income, is statistics and empty stories. If you didn't produce anything last year, and this year you produce one product, you've increased production by 100%. Only if you adopt this law amending and supplementing the Excise Act and thus remove the skin from the citizens of Serbia, then it is likely that the leather industry will increase the growth of its products. In the end, I know you're afraid of this approaching date. They say he's 13 years old. Bakusan is for you, because it is realistic that Tomislav Nikolic, the moment he moves to the building on Andric's wedding, will hear, first of all, from Minister Dinkic. It is realistic that, after Kostunica, the Prime Minister, such a minister is given up. It's also realistic for Labus to keep his promise and get out of the government. It is realistic that after 13 June, Dinkic puts a guitar on his back and goes to another fair, here he played his own.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3055	Obviously, it's just not realistic for you to stick to the agenda theme. Replica – mentioning in the presentation of the previous MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3056	I'm very sorry the gentleman didn't understand me, but maybe it's because I didn't explain it very well. It's not about who's personal and who's impersonal. It's about democratic and authoritarian principles. In democratic societies, there are no great leaders who are unreservedly trusted and there are no leaders who carry on a lapel and beautiful pictures of him on buses. So, in democratic societies, each citizen is "personal enough", as the gentleman would say, that is, every citizen has enough individuality and that is how the G17 Plus party works. Every member of her party has the right to their own individuality, and we don't need any great leaders we would wear on the lapels and swear to. That's one thing. Another thing the gentleman was talking about -- I would really like to and expect the guardians of the Serbian tradition to know that the Serbian patriarch is not being deployed in his place. As for the story of Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, I ask you once and for all to forget the stories of socks and some kind of weapon. You've been hit hard these days by a photograph showing who was carrying weapons, ladies and gentlemen, and who pointed those weapons at Serbian students. So please find a photo of Mr. Dinkic wearing a sock and carrying a weapon. You can't find that, because we don't handle guns. Ladies and gentlemen, we're dealing with some other means, such as, say, knowledge. So much for that, ladies and gentlemen. There is one more thing I want to tell you – you cannot know what Mladjan Dinkic wore on October 5th, for the simple reason that you were not there. Mladjan Dinkic led, as well as many honourable politicians and citizens of this country, a revolution against your regime and you were then in other places.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3057	According to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 97th and 100th.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I have the right to a replica, since a colleague mentioned me a few minutes ago. But I want to go straight to the Rules of Procedure, because I think we should stop talking like this in this building and talk about it like this, because what other people are going to think about us, if we're talking about ourselves like this. I'm not going to talk about anything else than the predecessor was talking about. He's just focused on excises, oil-related. I'll give you an example. During the Government of People's Unity, I went to a village 20 kilometers from my house to buy from a man who had a monopoly on oil sales. I bought four barrels. I'll compare it to this time. So, I'm a peasant and I bought exclusively for tractors. I bought four barrels of oil and had to drive at night so the police wouldn't take it away from me, because it was oil that asked her God which way she got to the man. Let me add, this man is now appearing, because in 2000, over the past 10 years, he's earned enormous sums of money, and he's had a monopoly on cigarette and oil smuggling, as a buyer of companies that are privatized. So he didn't get it and many didn't get it his fortune now, but then. It doesn't matter if we finish oil. You can talk and throw, that doesn't bother me, just let me finish. I was able to drive home and there was, like, 30% water in those barrels, and the whole move, when I watered the pepper, smelled like plastic. So that's how we peasants used to get oil. Now we go to the pump, if we're near the pump, the tractors, and we pour 30 dinars of oil, because for agriculture, 10 dinars are cheaper and we buy oil that's been examined, which is right and cheaper. Look, the price then was 2.5 marks of liters, and now for peasants it's lower than one brand. So I'm talking about facts and truths here. Let's not insult people who are struggling to fill the budget, pay both your salaries and our salaries, so that the state reduces the deficit, because that's a condition for us to enter into all relations with the IMF. As for your opinion, colleagues, that they didn't understand you; yes, they understand perfectly. They know that a solid budget will be launched by small businesses and will be a loan for farmers, the state will stabilise, there will be salaries and social benefits, and that is exactly what does not suit them. I advise you, colleagues of mine, to read the middle pages of the latest number of Telegraphs, which I have been pointing to for three years here in the Assembly. The problem of Serbia, the problem of border areas and mountainous areas, to make a consensus, to make a strategy and bring the young back to the country, and to stop fighting here, to show that we are the real representatives of the people and to save Serbia, not to lose it as Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3059	On what basis do you want the word? (Milovan Radovanovic: I was mentioned by MP Momir Markovic. ) You were mentioned by a colleague from your MP group and did not mention you in an offensive context. I can only conclude that you are now abusing the Rules of Procedure, but here you are, with your abuse of Rules of Procedure, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3060	First, Madam or Madam Chairman, according to the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to speak, in terms of giving a replica, and it is my right to interpret whether the speaker from this speaker – Momir Markovic, the MP of the SRS, correctly or incorrectly interpreted me. I know what I was saying a few days ago about Young Dinkic. You don't know that, because either you weren't there, or you didn't pay attention, or you don't remember, anyway. So don't be so sarcastic as to remind me, in the sense that by going out for this pay phone, eventually, I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure. I neither violate the Rules of Procedure nor abuse it. So, Mr. Momire Markovic, MP of the SRS, whom I belong to, I said to this speaker that on October 6th, Mladjan Dinkic, with a group of armed men masked, and I didn't say whether with fanatics, I didn't say whether with socks on his head, I didn't mention a kalashnikov or a heclerus, I already mentioned long pipes, that he had fallen into the building of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, where the gold bars, platinum, silver and large pictures had disappeared. That's what I said. Otherwise, when it comes to Mladjan Dinkic and the size of political party leaders, the president of the SRS, thanks to the indictment written here in Belgrade, thanks to the late Zoran Djindjic, Goran Svilanovic, Nebojsa Covic, was unfairly found in The Hague tribunal as a prisoner, of course due to alleged war crimes, participating in a criminal organisation. I'll just have a few more sentences, Madam Chairman. I believe you'll remind me not to follow the line. Just a few more sentences and I'm done. Otherwise, all the world's media is talking about what the American, English statesmen have confessed to, that there have been abuses and experiences over Iraqi prisoners in Iraq. Please, they confessed to such a war crime and ended the story with an apology. Is it under the command of George Bush and Tony Blair that they are to be found in one of the war crimes prisons, is it the UN war crimes tribunal and the International Criminal Court who also... (President: Please, to whom and what do you replicate, do you know? )......................................................................................................... He should judge all war criminals, no matter what part of the world they did and where they happened. No apologies, no excuses, no discrimination, it's a pledge of the SRS and us MPs. You, gentlemen of G17 plus, it hurts that we say the right things in the right words and the right terms. I understand your anger, anger and reaction from the bench, you from the Serbian radicals will hear a lot about the financial malversions of Mladjan Dinkic, Miroljub Labus and others, not all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3061	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. People's MP, I apologize, replica or, mentioning the party, the replica, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the chairman not to allow the mockery of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If SRS MPs have something to say to each other, they can do it at an SRS MP's club. I expect you to lead the congregation in the right way and not allow exactly what we saw earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3063	It's obvious that SRS MPs are on the campaign, so they don't have an MP's club, so they can't agree, so they have to do this. As for the respect and dignity of the National Assembly, it is in the consciousness, the will, and the desire of the messengers of the people. I believe the citizens are judging, among other things. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, tell me just a member, so please welcome the 100th.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that this place defines both the fate of the Serbian people and the future of Serbia. But it is evident that in the past two days there is neither dignity nor in this way we will be able to define and improve the lives of Serbian citizens, nor to define Serbia's future. I reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100, for one simple reason, which is one of the previous speakers from the SRS said we all have a hole in our conscience and honor. I couldn't agree more about my conscience and honor, but I would remind the MP of a hole in amnesia and oblivion. Serbia also has many disadvantages, but it has many virtues. It is a virtue to forgive, and the fault of the great Serbian people is forgetfulness. We have forgotten how we have found ourselves in this situation today and who are the main culprits for which we are today in this situation, in isolation from the normal world, from Europe, and, of course, in a situation that is very difficult to get out of today. What we're discussing today and what we want to improve is the cause. The result of this consequence that should be removed here today is one unscathed policy that was led in the previous period. Of course, we are ready to forget a lot of things and forgetfulness is one big flaw, so I would remind you of another Serbian radical, who said that we are the supporters of the government here, that they have been supporters of 14 years of an unscathed policy, which has led us to one of the most difficult situations since Serbia exists. Deoba is a major flaw of the Serbian people, in some near and distant history, we have divided into Serbs, Serbians, Montenegrins, Vojvodjane, Muslims, Kosovars, Lale, Bosniaks, Europeans and, of course, hard-core nationalists. These hard-core nationalists certainly won't get us into Europe, but they can get us back to the 19th century. Our duty here is to integrate ourselves with the normal world, to integrate ourselves with Europe and our duty is, in the extreme line, to change both your attitudes and opinions that are backward and that certainly your behaviour, like these for the past two days, will not bring us into Europe, will not improve the situation in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3065	We're done with the replicas and the rules of procedure. There's no basis for replication. (The speaker was approached by MP Branislav Ristivojevic and asked for a replica. ( ) On what basis do you want a replica? Please, sir, MPs Branislav Ristivojevic, you have no right to a replica. No, you have no right to a replica. I'm sorry, don't argue with me. You have no right to replicate, mentioning the party's president is not a right to replicate. You can get through the Rules of Procedure, and you can't get a replica. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3066	An esteemed colleague from the SRS, who told this speaker one lie, so I'm replicating here by article 100. It is not true that Mr Vojislav Kostunica has anything to do with Mr Seselj and his departure to The Hague. There's one simple and logical proof that that's not true. Mr. Seselj went to The Hague alone. Then how can Vojislav Kostunica have anything to do with his departure? As for who wrote him the indictment, I'm not getting into it, so you deal with the ones you mentioned here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3067	We're done with replicas and business. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Djordjevic. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miodrag Djordjevic, and you can follow him according to the Rules of Procedure. Here, you've got the word. People's MP, the gentleman's got his word, and you can get a word after him. Don't you want to give a word to your MP? The People's Messenger doesn't want to give you a word, please, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3068	Miss Krstic, I must inform you that I am not yet giving the word. You give the word as chairman, you break a number of members of the Rules of Procedure, and I'll probably be able to talk about it for ten minutes now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3069	Cut it to three.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3070	First of all, I have no intention of shortening, you have violated a member of the 100th who says, "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." You, Mrs Krstic, have violated the dignity of the National Assembly in the most cruel way possible; you said even - we are done with the Rules of Procedure. You, if you're done with the Rules of Procedure, come out, Miss Krstic, from this room. Furthermore, Article 96(3) has been violated, which says, "To the emissary who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly is giving a word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed." So you were obliged to give me your word, not only before the gentleman from the SRS, but even before you gave the word to Branislav Ristivojevic, who answered the line. So, first of all, I've got a top priority on the Rules of Procedure in this case. Furthermore, Article 96(4) has been violated, which states that the MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion has been violated, that it is quoted and explained, which consists of an injury, by being able to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. I want to explain this provision to you a little bit. So, the MP who goes out to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure is obliged to say which member is injured and is obliged to quote that provision, but it is not required to do so before it comes out for the pay phone, it is not obliged to do so immediately, but within those three minutes, how long this exposure can take. So it's a matter of personal style and needs at a specific point whether I'm going to say which member is injured at the beginning or at the end, whether I'm going to quote the hurt provision at the beginning of my exposure, in the middle, at the end, or at any point when I think of it. Furthermore, a member of 99 who says - the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. The G17s plus spoke from this pay phone about everything and everything, just not about what's on the agenda. Some talked about chickens and fame, some talked about trust and budget, and some talked about Mary and the wrong tree, and you, Miss Krstic, didn't mind. Furthermore, it is true that the MPs of the SRS wear the character of Dr Vojislav Seselj and we, Miss Krstic, are proud of it... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The character of Vojislav Seselj, not the character of the goldfish. It is not true, Miss Krstic, that there are no more great leaders. It is only true that they are no longer in the parties of the ruling majority...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3071	You just hurt the Rules of Procedure and timed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3072	Miss Krstic, I did not exceed the time, because you were obliged to use the time I spent quoting the Rules of Procedure, and I quoted them more, you refused from those three minutes. I've still got time to talk, and I'll probably quote some other damage to the Rules of Procedure. Then, as for the introduction of the people...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3073	You've got half a minute straight.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3074	So I didn't break it anyway, you broke it, Miss Krstic, because you interrupted me when you weren't authorized. As for the representation of the people, all 250 MPs in this assembly represent someone, and the only difference is that we represent a majority of the people in Serbia and you gentlemen represent a minority. Next, I understand all these attacks, all this hysteria... (President: Please complete your advertising. )......................................................................................................... all the lies you make about the SRS and its leaders. You ladies and gentlemen are in a panic. You understand that you... (President: I will be forced to turn off your microphone if...) )......................................................................................................... The people will no longer, and there is simply no help for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3075	Dear People's Parliament, I thank you right now for taxing me with all the injuries that the SRS made during today and the previous days. Replic on whose exposure? To my presentation, replica, please, MP Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3076	I'm surprised, because here I am, at least two or three times, going out to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Miss Emilia Krstic. I'll tell Miss, because I think of her as a lady, it's my colleague, and I'd ask her when she's running this session that she doesn't remind me of the time that was here a year ago, when the entire parliamentary group of the SRS was excluded from the session, when the MP had to pay every note of 3,000 dinars first, and then she asks why I got a warning, so they charge him another 8,000 dinars. With your behavior, Miss Emilia, you're just reminding yourself that you're going the same way your predecessor used to do that job where you're sitting. You see for yourself how the election went. Therefore, I warn you, to all MPs, to treat yourselves with some respect and to let the MPs fight their political struggle right behind the assembly speaker, because that speaker is for it. The election campaign starts as soon as the election results have been announced. This place here is a conflict of political ideas, attitudes, concepts, programs. Each parliamentary group wants to present to its electoral body and the rest of the public that their programme is the best, that they are the most consistent in implementing this programme, not that speakers are coming out here for this speaker and that they are talking about how someone else's opinion is obstructing and preventing reforms. The SRS MPs believe that all the reforms that have been made since 5 October 2000 have been harmful to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to this assembly. The aim of the SRS MPs is that such harmful laws are being implemented later. The fact that we were both right on October 5th and January 21st, 2001, when you established the previous government, tells you the result of the elections that took place several months ago and will tell you the result of the June 13th presidential elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3077	The People's Messenger Miodrag Djordjevic has the word, and after him, the MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my name is Miodrag Djordjevic, I come from the Meroshin municipality, I am an MP for the SRS. Like many residents of the Meroshina municipality, I am involved in the production, or cultivation of the famous cloudy cherry. The economic production of cherries is influenced by many factors, including the price of oil. I am uncomfortablely surprised by the resistance of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, Vuk Draskovic, Velje Ilic, Miroljub Labus and others gathered around this unnatural coalition, to offer, for the second time in less than a month, the law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, requiring an increase in the price of oil. The previous Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises was sent to the Serbian Assembly on 2 April 2004, following an emergency procedure, and the proposal was signed by Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, chairman of the G17 Plus party. The bill hasn't been passed. The current bill, which is the subject of today's debate, was signed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Vojislav Kostunica. The National Assembly has already rejected the bill once. What's in common with these suggestions. It is common to require the accumulation of excise duty on oil derivatives, i.e. an increase in oil price. Namely, higher excise amounts are prescribed on diesel fuel from the current 13.76 dinars per litre to 16.66 dinars, which is for nearly three dinars per litre. What does that really mean for the people? It means diesel's gonna pick up the fuel. In which the government of Vojislav Kostunica differs from the government of Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic and their successor, Boris Tadic. They're both looking for a solution in the crowds. At what point do they demand a persistent oil-gathering? They seek when the economy is completely destroyed by the pestilence of Zoran Zivkovic, Bozidar Djelic, the stealing privatisation, the robberies of Janjusevic, Kolesar, Kostic, when the workers are out of work on the street. An increasing number of jobless workers are looking for a return to grandfatherly and great-grandfather's estates. Children should be fed, and it is then that the government of Vojislav Kostunica welcomes them, increasing the excise oil, and certainly the price of oil. The presidential candidate of the DSS and other small groups gathered around the DSS, Dragan Marsicanin, who announced a review of thief's privatisation, resigns and flees responsibility, and is no longer a minister of economy. Now, that's the DSS. The further away from responsibility, as – we are not guilty; others are guilty; we from the DSS are good and uninformed. There is no difference between the government of Zoran Zivkovic and the government of Vojislav Kostunica. There is no difference between Boris Tadic and Dragan Marsican... (President: There is a difference whether you stick to the topic or not. Please stick to the subject. Tomislav Nikolic, as president of Serbia, would never sign such a law. It must be made possible for a peasant to produce cheaper products, to earn at least a small profit. Rich peasant – a rich country. Serbian radicals will fight to ensure that the oil excise does not increase, so that oil does not collect. They will see Serbian citizens vote. We will also see you socialists as to whether you will help Kostunica, Dinkic, Velija Ilic or Draskovic in other intentions to make life worse for peasants and increase the price of oil. The Martian will surely say he has not been informed, we know about Kostunica. The Serbian Radical Party will vote against these laws, and those who vote for them work against the interests of peasants and above all Serbian peasants.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3079	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Ristivojević, please welcome the party mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3080	Dear colleague, it seems to me that you have crossed the promise of your presidential candidate, the distinguished Mr. Tom Nikolic, who said he would not use this pay phone in the election campaign. Not only do you not respect his desire not to use this pay phone, but you use this pay phone for our presidential candidate's campaign, Mr. Martian. You might have noticed that his name was not mentioned here by any of our MPs, after this pay phone, since he ran for president. That's for the simple reason: his wish was that the fair play, which your presidential candidate tried to establish, responds with fair play as well. So unless Mr. Toma Nikolic abuses this pay phone, neither will Mr. Martian. A fair game should exist in the presidential campaign. I don't see why you're breaking it now, and you're going through the will of your own presidential candidate. You abuse this pay phone in favor of not yours, but our presidential candidate. I just can't believe it. I can't believe it. Aren't you supposed to mention another name here? As for the difference between the government of Mr. Zivkovic and today's government, Mr. Kostunica, the difference is very simple, and the bill is laid in the republican December elections. That previous government was wiped out. The people trusted the new congregation’s majority. She formed the government. If you don't see that difference, then I don't know who's gonna open your eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3081	Thank you. The replica of Mr. Djordjevic's presentation, he mentioned the party. Is that it? For a moment, he mentioned the party leader, by whom the parliamentary group bears a name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3082	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the SRS are forgetful. We're not their DOS. So we're not DOS, we've had replicas many times from this pay phone, you've been through badly. You were in power back then, and now it's us. You're masters of demagogy and I'm taking off your hat. But since you need to talk more specifically, I'm going to have to use some thoughts, some sayings, and people and smart people, to make you understand me. Let's say, one says, "He who doesn't have a head in his legs." It can be translated, and it doesn't have to be translated. But one of the newest ones says, "Who doesn't have one in his head." I really don't know what I said, but anyway, this won't do anyone any good except you, there won't be any harm, as Gutovic said, but it'll be useful anyway. I hope you'll benefit.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3083	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Milorad Mircic. Please, let's listen to the speaker. [[Sagar.]] Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3084	Mr. Markovic, as a reason for going out for this speaker, I quote the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, Article 98. But the point of my date is not to abuse the provisions of this Rules of Procedure but to appeal to you a little. It is obvious that it is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, and in particular the provision of Constitution 2, that there is no discussion, it is obvious that the ruling majority is more of the problem of the SRS and the badges with the figure of Vojislav Seselj, which we proudly carry, but the point of the agenda. Just slowly, I wanted to propose to Mr. Markovic an esteemed colleague to Emilia and, I don't think it's a fundamental problem, to take a 15-minute break, to calm down a little bit of passion. [[Sagar.]] We are aware of the fact that we are sitting in a basement space, that a little tension is growing, but the law we are discussing is a significant law not only as you, as promoters, point out - for the European community, but also for the citizens of Serbia, because it directly affects their standard, and because of the seriousness of the agenda point, and because of the peace and goal of achieving a normal debate, I propose a 15-minute break. I feel that you will have understanding, and if it is necessary for certain parliamentary groups to hold a meeting or to consult each other, but to continue on the agenda to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3085	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. I think the proposal is very reasonable. Since there are seven members of the SRS left, I am giving a seven-minute break to discuss how we will discuss the subject... I don't think you from one party... For God's sake, so please, I'm telling you correctly, to make a deal, to tell all the MPs, about how Mr. Mircic said -- to calm down the tensions and talk about the subject. Thank you. [[After break – 13.45]] We're continuing the session. Please confirm the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert the cards. The application of the electronic voting system in the hall is the presence of 78 ambassadors, which is not enough for the work of the National Assembly. We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3088	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, putting the 6th item on the agenda of this session through the will of the assembly majority, I must join some of the assessments that some MPs have made before me, is a sort of humiliation for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is also rape of the Assembly and is a rather harsh violation of one of the basic democratic principles, which is the principle of division of power. The reasons why this law was restored to the agenda, namely Resolute Minister Mladjan Dinkic did not hide from the MPs and said that the adoption of a number of amendments was made to this law. One of the amendments adopted was the amendment of the SRS MPs. However, the main goal of re-setting the law's agenda is to provide exactly as much funding in the Republic of Serbia's budget as the finance minister predicted. Due to the adoption of some of the amendments, and SRS MPs voted for all amendments that reduced the financial burden on citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the law was returned to exactly 17.8 billion dinars, as foreseen by the adoption of this law, to be settled in the budget. The basic item is the introduction of an excise on diesel fuel. We have been criticised here by submitting amendments to these and other laws, at the session when it was debated, to make an obstruction of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, among other things. One of the critics who told us that was also Mr. Nikola Milosevic, MP of the DSS. Given the status that the gentleman enjoys as an academic, this status requires him to behave similarly in similar situations, so I am very surprised why he did not react this time and said that the obstruction of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or by its minister, by transforming most of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia into the service of the Government, which should create legal frameworks for the sole implementation of what the Government imagines, without any amendment of the Members of the People, although it is the submission of amendments and the revision of legislative proposals, one of the fundamental rights of the MPs, guaranteed to the Rules of Procedure. The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia twice mentioned yesterday how much one day of the National Assembly's meeting costs taxpayers, since it is from the same political group as the finance minister, otherwise very co-operable Mladjan Dinkic. He could have told Mr Dinkic that the re-enactment of the MPs on this law would burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and would not allow this law to be found on the agenda again. However, the debate of some MPs from a single parliamentary group has made it quite clear to us that in fact, the real Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Miroslav Labus, and that Vojislav Kostunica, however, is only the formal Prime Minister, whom we have chosen here. Because in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the majority of their working hours have been spent by MPs discussing laws that are from the financial area. From one, otherwise very small parliamentary group, we have received a huge amount of concentrated power through the President of the National Assembly, who is acting as President of the Republic, through the real Prime Minister, Minister of Finance. This does not go hand in hand to the DSS parliamentary group, as their president again played the role of the Trojan horse, as well as in 2000, and brought to power a smaller parliamentary group, although Serbian citizens voted differently on December 28th. The government has put all its human and material potentials in the service of two very missed goals these days. One of them is a kind of political bioengineering, where they try to create candidates from some candidates, which God has not given for it, for the president of the Republic. The second goal is the political resuscitation of those who are politically long dead. I will move to another law, and that is the bill on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and all those MPs who read members 44 to 48 will see very clearly what the essence of this law is. It is a path that the Republic of Serbia should return to the Republic of Serbia in the years immediately after World War II, in the year of a forced ransom, when with the terrible penalties it threatens to settle taxes and since tax policy has three very important limiting factors, and these are primarily economic factors, then a political factor and ultimately a very important psychological factor. All three factors in the creation of tax policy have been breached by the former finance minister first, and the current Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic has taken the same route and usually turns it into a contrast later on. In fact, it will lead to citizens of Serbia, natural and legal persons, mass boycotting such tax payments at such heights. In the end, I would tell some MPs from a single parliamentary group, who here mentioned the price of three dinar bread, and by wrongly interpreting the words spoken by the presidential candidate of the SRS in the 2003 campaign, you, gentlemen, are policy promoters who have put this country in a position that one firm can buy for three euros. Have your experts calculate how much bread this company really is worth, so split three euros by that number and you'll get a number none of you will know how to pronounce. It's going to start with a zero, and then it's stuck, and then it's going to be a big string of zeros, and eventually it's going to be a number. It's about how much you estimate it should be the real price of bread.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3089	Replica, MP Nikola Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3090	My esteemed speaker needed, if I count properly, a full month to come up with something to respond to one of my exposure to which most of the audience had already forgotten. So, I'd really like it if someone could, and so to speak, why not, he wants to answer me and he wants to take advantage of me at least that session that follows after the session that I had my word on. Now that it's about obstruction of speech, I assume my speaker admitted that the party he belonged to was obstructing. He means, if I once reacted to any obstructions being performed here, I should react another time. It's a valuable confession to me, and I can personally figure it out here, what else. However, if it is about obstruction of speech, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the gentleman who sent me this rebuke has shown me how the obstruction is done. I wonder, and the question is probably too high, is it really on the agenda of how relations are in the Serbian government, if anyone there can be commanded, someone subordinated. Is the theme of the Assembly what my speaker called political resuscitation? Is the theme of this assembly a sugar affair, and by the way, my foreword has distracted the mind that this affair is linked, if I remember correctly, to the previous one, and not to this government. The government has taken steps to clear the affair. So not only is it some kind of obstruction, but it's a complete failure. I'd really like to keep to the agenda. I can understand that this speaker is used for party promotion, it's quite fine, and that's the legitimate right of every party and every speaker, but a pay phone cannot be misused for a pre-election campaign and for discussing topics that are not foreseen in the agenda. I appeal to the President of the Assembly, who, by the way, is very nice, very safe, and indeed leads our meetings for example, to remind anyone who uses this pay phone for a pre-election campaign to violate the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3091	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and then the MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my goal is to strictly stick to the subject, but before I move on to commenting on two draft laws that are now on the agenda, I need to refer to a few sentences that we could have heard in the afternoon debate over this pay phone. One of the MPs said, "You've destroyed everything, you've destroyed everything," and I'd add - and set it on fire. I think he was looking in the wrong direction. I think he was looking at this part, and maybe he could look at someone else, I don't know if there's a vision problem or something with balance, I don't know what it is. Then the head of the parliamentary group added another attribute to the parliamentary group, said they had given us seats from the chairman of the assembly committees and in some vice presidents. I wouldn't agree with that. I'm afraid that one day this distinguished colleague doesn't come here and say, "We've given you 82 mandates." As the 82 gave us, so 250 citizens of Serbia and we here are in charge and obliged to represent the interests of Serbian citizens, or our voters. Just another observation, the finance minister in yesterday's exhibition, instead of realistically explaining the draft law on daily work, addressed a little more problems with resolving the housing problems of members of the SRS. I think we're going to be able to do it with our work without his help. I would refer to the comment of the law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. As my predecessors said, who disputed this activity, that three weeks ago we had this law on the agenda, and about it the MPs of the National Assembly made such a decision, relatively accepted the law as it was. Excise on diesel fuel is introduced, and it is very interesting to explain why it is done, and it is said that the reasons are the gradual harmonisation of excise policy with European Union regulations. Yeah, it's really gradual. These days it was raining and it was probably European tears, complaining that there was a disparity between diesel prices and motor gasoline. Then, the security of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, we can really accept that and that's probably true, but a few days ago we had a discussion here about resolving the citizens of Serbia's housing problems, where it was said that the members of the SRS, or its MPs, were against it. In fact, we are in favour of solving the problem of the housing issue of every man, no matter which political party or maybe none of them belong. We believe that this is a fundamental human right and that it needs to be resolved as soon as possible, but it is certain that the subject of the previous law was not that, or that it was not the intention, but it was completely different and different. Then, one of the fellow SRS MPs proposed that the excise duty on domestic wines be abolished in order to accelerate the development of winemaking, i.e. wine production and fruit juices. It was okay, it was accepted, but now someone wants to equate the production of domestic wines with imported wines, i.e. to make one inequality, or one big and big mistake. When a law is passed, an expert group or people working on the draft law should try a little bit and see what the social situation of taxpayers is, if the bill should regulate that matter. Perhaps we could do some psychological moments, or social and all other elements to deal with, and experts from all groups to engage, to see what state Serbian citizens are in, and how much tax abuse they can endure. We agree, in fact, the SRS advocates returning as much of the traffic as possible to normal flows, to prevent the grey economy as much as possible. We advocate that taxes are tolerable, that taxes be on the level that a Serbian citizen, not the one dealing with the traffic of goods, because the final, or final taxpayer is essentially a citizen of Serbia, can objectively pay, or can handle. In this law, some deadlines, which relate to the up-to-dateness of the tax authorities, are extended, and therefore suffers from a tax payer who by mistake or on purpose pays more, and we have heard here from colleague Veroljub Arsic when the most often comes to the wrong or more of the tax on sales and in what way, or how long it takes to be paid back to that taxpayer. Someone said that the dinar is very stable, that the current finance minister is recognizable because he was also the governor of the NBS. If the dinar is so stable and there are no disturbances, I don't know why ten times, even twenty times there are penalties. When it comes to the collection of sales taxes, we agree that it should be more rigorous, that there should be severe sanctions against it, but this bill also provides for an overrun in the submission of some formal submissions or some applications of a very high penalty. The costs of the infringement procedure, under this law, determines the tax administration in excess of 5% fines or at least 500 dinars. I think those costs are very high, too. It is then provided for in Article 176 at the storage of goods for which no tax is paid in a room which is not registered for that purpose, or for the permit to be stored in its room of goods, and for which the room is not registered, followed by a prison sentence of three months to three years and a fine. There's no mention of what value the goods should be. This means, if one is involved in the transport of chemical pens, if one pen is found outside the place registered for sale, or outside the place intended for the storage of goods, to be subject to these sanctions. Whether the tax authority, or any other person who is to conduct this procedure, will be just or not, that is the second question, or is left to him, to determine that level of punishment by his own discretion. I'm sorry the finance minister isn't here right now. I'd like to ask him for a practical solution to one problem. I would call it some experimental systematization in the previous government, where one tax administration, where I came from – in Ljubljana, lost half of the perpetrators, and they had to do all the work concerning taxpayers. So, one half remained in the Ljubljana department, and the other half of the workers were transferred to other departments without analysis – Mali Zvornik or Loznica, and now it happens that although the place has a sufficient number of taxpayers, the taxpayers wait between half an hour and an hour to finish some jobs that are necessary to complete. And it is also known that they have to deal with some of the activities that they need to support themselves and their family, and that they also have to contribute, as businessmen or small businesses, which should, through sales taxes, fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I think someone will pass this suggestion on to the minister and it would be "real" to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3093	The People's Messenger Milan Skrbić has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3094	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, I will refer most to this law, with a proposal that, in accordance with Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall bring an emergency procedure. I would add that, I think, this is a super urgent procedure, because this is the 11th session of the First Regular Session. If we're doing this super-emergency procedure, I wonder how the procedure will be called when we're having an emergency session. When we talk about experts, I personally express my opinion and I don't like the word "experts," because the question of who is it to evaluate and assess who is expert and who isn't. Then what would you call that person? Some expert on experts or something. When we talk about the bill of amendments and additions to the Excise Act, with the Government's proposal to be adopted by a super-emergency procedure, we cannot help but remember what preceded all of this and the return of these laws to review by the Serbian Government. I'm sure this wouldn't have happened if Mr. Dinkic had made a different approach to the interpretation of all these laws, including this Excise Act. Obviously, someone was in a hurry and there was some recalculation during the vote, which showed that it was not good what you voted for, that you didn't get well synchronised and agreed. But, ladies and gentlemen of the congregation's majority, that's your problem and you'll stay as long as you're in that absolutely unnatural coalition. I understand that excise policy is an integral part of tax policy, but extending the list of products to which excise is paid is certain to add to the domestic budget, i.e.. physical and legal persons, especially legal persons, and pull a lot of pick-ups behind them, and this most applies to increasing the excise duty on diesel fuel. Before I explain what I'm saying, I'm going to touch briefly on the content of the law, in Article 3, which says that the payment of excise duties is free of both domestic and imported wines, medical wines, mediocrity, and all of this in order to synchronise, again with some of the European Union's regulations. I would say that in the technology of the production of our wine producers, there is a lack of raw materials and that this technology also includes imports of rinfuz wine from Romania, Macedonia, Bulgaria and the surrounding countries, which should and should be released from excise duty, and natural import wines should not be released. This would protect domestic products and domestic producers. After three dinar excise additives per litre for motor gasoline, I assume you will adopt these laws and that diesel will be more expensive there than June. Diesel fuel will additionally cost drivers more for 1.5 dinar, while Serbia's oil industry and private traffic for 1.40. This tax on diesel revenue, it says, is a condition not only for the completion of the state budget, a larger new arrangement with the IMF. Those are the words of Minister Dinkic. Part of that newly adopted charge, likely to be adopted, would be taken over by the NIS, but also by other fuel companies, and the rest would be carried by drivers. I think this time the Ministry is very insistent on diesel excises, or, by not bringing these excises, by not adopting, the budget would be shorter by 3.5, maybe more, that's an estimate, maybe more than billions of dinars, as far as the said excise money would go into the budget. This revenue, which means 3.5 billion dinars, according to Minister Mladjan Dinkic, is the only condition for closing the arrangement with the IMF. Filling the budget with diesel excises and income is a condition, but no one mentioned it for this speaker when we talk about this bill and the excise on diesel, that's the condition of the IMF to get a new tranche of credit. Isn't that what we are associated with: if the next IMF loan aid is missing, the parity of dinars and euros can be expected to be one euro - 80 dinars by the end of the year. When I say this, I'm not saying this by heart, these are the opinions of many professors from economic colleges, I won't call them experts, because I'm going to kill what I just said. We wonder, after all this, as long as the limit to the endurance of our business is especially for those who are directly involved in the production and sale of diesel, and I think it's on the run. I think that those who sell diesel at gas stations, that's concrete, after this, if they adopt, they're going to have to deal with some extra shops, maybe some grey economy, selling some of the stuff that they do in stores that they have at gas stations or restaurants, and they're going to make more money than they sell fuel. One more thing, I mentioned earlier that NIS would take over one part of itself, as far as I know, in NIS is the new leadership you set up, not you specifically, but the new government, and many ambitious statements were made that it would be more marketable than in the previous period, and that there would be a modernization of production, and that we would get better and more quality fuel, that we would get closer to Europe. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, if there is an additional burden on NIS for 1.40 dinars, how will new investments come into play, I mean NIS, because I think those thoughts and promises are quickly cooled down. That would be about what I prepared for this, so I wouldn't step over like yesterday. I'll finish; in the end, it's clear to me that the SRS, which you hate and don't like so much, which you're criticizing, you're joining up against it, your pre-election campaign started with a myth in Novi Sad, it was a magnificent rally, it started on May 9th, on Victory Day, doesn't that tell you anything? I said this sentence and I stayed here on purpose to see if anyone was responding to what I said; rarely anyone who listened to me, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3095	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3096	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have nothing new to add to what the SRS MPs have said and for this reason I apologize to the viewers who are watching this transmission, I have to repeat for those who are not constantly looking at some of my personal regrets and objections to the SRS, not only these proposals, but for the full work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in these few months and all that the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes to the National Assembly. The first remark is that in the past few months we have received all proposals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia as an emergency. I don't remember any of the proposals coming through the regular procedure, they were all in an emergency procedure, and I'm just surprised where the need for such a way of working can't the Government of the Republic of Serbia single out and prepare seven or 15 laws to be passed to the Assembly in a regular procedure. This law we're considering here today, the law on amendments to the Excise Act, was in the process 15 days ago. One text was adopted 15 days ago, and today we have a new text, a new proposal. The problem is that the text adopted 15 days ago is not identical to the version that the Government sent to the National Assembly. It is not identical, because it has been amended by amendments, and submitted by representatives of the ruling coalition, so that it differs dramatically from the initial text. It's another problem that the ruling coalition has. There is a problem, because there is no agreement within the coalition, there is no unity over a simple legal text and how to expect citizens of Serbia to expect unity in the government when it comes to some much more important decisions. The proposal, which was fifteen days ago, has been amended significantly, and therefore the government of the Republic of Serbia today comes before the Assembly with a new bill to be corrected, meaning what has not been done in the previous one. If these two proposals, the one from the previous month and today, are compared, there are differences. I'm talking about government proposals now, not the final text that was adopted after the amendments. In the original text, there is a significant difference. The difference is in the first term, where it is now more precise to define what everything from non-alcoholic drinks is taxed with excise duty. So, the inaccurate formulation that was in the previous text, it's now precise. That's not bad, but there's a question, where did that extra mind come from and why it wasn't so precise 15 days ago? And 15 days ago, the promoter also here convinced MPs that this offered text was ideal, that it was best, that it couldn't be better, and today, 15 days later, it comes with another text and it claims to him the same thing, and the texts differ significantly. What's controversial is the explanation the promoter gave regarding the excise on diesel fuel. It explains, however, that this move means that by increasing the excise duty on diesel fuel, besides, it will also provide a more stable market for these products, it means diesel-fuels and oil derivatives. It is simply a declassified argument, because these funds do not go to NIS as an importer, an oil supplier, but go directly to the budget. So this cannot provide more stable oil supply and oil derivatives, because the funds are intended directly for the budget. The previous text, after one amendment, freed the excise wine from domestic wine and that was logical, smart and reasonable. It was reasonable, as it should be accelerated, to improve the conditions for domestic production, to provide better conditions for domestic wineries. However, it is now illogical, unreasonable and unclear where the idea for import wines to be released from excise duties. Are we going to help our producers, and I don't know what the proposer meant, and how he can explain and defend one of these measures? Of course, the proposer in the explanation says this will speed up production. However, I say, that explanation is declassified and cannot do so, because it is clear to every layman that this way of production is making it difficult, because competition for domestic producers will be significantly higher and there will be conditions for production and plasma much more difficult. It's probably a different idea, it's probably the intensity and the desire for domestic producers to get even more timid and sell as quickly as possible, easier and cheaper. Finally, according to this law, these measures will provide an inflow of around four billion dinars. Given that the budget deficit is over 40 billion dinars, I fear that this proposal that we have today will not be the last in a series of similar proposals this year and that we will very soon have new proposals to increase excise duties on various excise products, because it is difficult to fill out the budget deficit that was initially adopted in the proposal for the Republic of Serbia's budget and for which there are no clear sources to fill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3097	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and then the Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3098	As interesting and interesting as this debate is, it best shows the fact that none of the government representatives are present here in the O.R. This is not just about their interest in explaining things to us MPs, but about their way of respecting and respecting the majority's parliament, not opposition. It is even weirder, given that this excise law is second-time proposed by the Serbian government, where, in the very text of the bill, it recognises its mistakes. In normal democratic countries and normal political conditions, it would also be sufficient reason for the resolute minister himself to initiate his resignation. What's the reason I'm saying that? For the simple reason that we are witnesses, and there is a stenogram and record from this session, when discussions about excises, MPs of the SRS and other parties from this pay phone said that there is no way to increase the excise duty on non-alcoholic beverages, because natural juices and there is no legal provision for excise duties. In response, the minister from this pay phone stated that we Serbian radicals are doing political propaganda and that this is not true, that we are not familiar with the law, that in this text a new bill would admit his mistake. One responsible minister cannot be interpreted in one way, as you claim, by the responsible government - who is doing it and making mistakes. It can only be one of the minimum moral principles that came out here before us MPs and in the light of these two laws that he said, I apologize to the MPs whose claims I denied, I was deceived by my professional service. Let's put that aside. According to us, Serbian radicals, these bill proposals are unacceptable, and I am talking about these two draft laws. First of all, in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Tax, good deeds apply to criminal provisions. If the level of punishment is the result of the real policy implemented by the government rather than the result of expected inflation, then good criminal measures. Is it real now that taxpayers pay or don't pay, that's what we'll see. In any case, that criminal policy needs to be tightened, discipline should be introduced. What is most interesting in the proposals is to see how this second proposal of the Excise Act will reflect on the standard of citizens of Serbia, because, gentlemen, the other day, the European Community representative made it clear to you that he is not interested in your political views, when it comes to candidate for entry into the European Community, but rather in their interest to raise the standards of Serbian citizens. We have something here that should at least be run for an economy award. We have statements from the government's representatives that increasing excise duties on diesel fuel will not compromise Serbia's citizens' standards, will not cause inflation. At the very least, for me, and for us Serbian radicals, we should run for the prize. I think it's too much of a Nobel Prize. If not the prize, then at least declare the phenomenon from the economics, if not that, then from the field of medicine. It's already in the sector and in part of that science. It is hard to believe, gentlemen, that an increase in oil excise duties and oil derivatives will not cause a reaction that will result in inflation. We made sure that the increase in the excise duty on gasoline caused the price to rise, the increase in prices in itself caused inflation. The statistical manipulation of the increase in inflation rate, that's another thing. It is best to check with Serbian citizens. Ask them how much this has affected their home budget, and you'll get the right estimate. What we Serbian radicals want to achieve is to give you, the congregation's majority, the knowledge that you are learning from the experiences of previous authorities. Their finance minister was here the same or almost the same argument as yours, so count on the Minister of Finance coming after your minister, and we sincerely hope that it will be a member of the SRS, who will expose all these frauds that your finance minister is dealing with. We are now warning you for this reason, not to achieve a political effect, but to change the laws. The best laws are those that respect reality, the best laws. See how the population lives, look at the cost of living, see what the effects of rising prices are due to the change in excise duties, and then you'll understand everything. That many MPs think in an unacceptable way, so they're in the role of principle, which I don't care, gentlemen, the end-user will pay for all this. We're the end-users, the ones who live together in the household. Those who live with me in the household, they pay for all this and we are taxpayers, as well as members of our families, our relatives and neighbors. That's how you look. So watch, and not because of party discipline, because of the inter-coalization agreement that you pass laws that are not only contrary to the will of citizens, whether the majority or minorities, but cost them a lot. It's still time to fix it. We hope that by accepting the amendments of the SRS you will correct some irregularities, this law will be corrected, but our hopes are based on the will of the majority sitting here in the Assembly, and we Serbian radicals are telling you again – we will not accept these laws of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3099	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, followed by Aleksandar Djordjevic. It's also the last registered speaker. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is 15 minutes away.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3100	Well, after 15 days of re-trial for the National Assembly. He got angry with the finance minister that his idea of how to secure the funds he lacked for the budget didn't pass in the National Assembly. He got angry, folded his tab and went back to work. It's a warning to the congregation's majority that in the future he can't stand the amendments, that he shouldn't be smart, because the anger of the minister can be boundless, dangerous, and you see him today and he's gone. He's gone because he doesn't care about this. He provided 126 identification cards to adopt this. Of course, the SRS criticises the bill. He won't vote for that bill, we're just about to vote for it. We're not going to deny ourselves. I guess we haven't changed our minds in 15 days. If any of you have changed your mind, that's already your problem. But I would draw attention to the congregation's majority that at the time of the election campaign, you in this agenda tell Mr. Marsican that there is no need to run, because he will surely lose the election. Here's the evidence for that. Well, who would vote for the coalition's candidate -- at the centre, Serbia, which during the election campaign raises prices. Here, very simple and simple. Come out nice, do a poll, ask any passersby – here, there's the campaign, the government raises the fuel price, will you vote for their candidate for president? Only Mladjan Dinkic can say that it is visionary, epochal and will bring some results. There's no result. We also warned you about the problem that will happen when you adopt the budget, and then the finance minister came out for a pay phone and said there will be no tax increase, no excise tax, no excise duty, no conditionality. Don't lie to the devil, it hasn't been a month a set of tax laws had to change, and now, the congregation's majority is going to the correctional exam. Now, that's the economic policy of the new government, that's one verse. No idea, no vision. Because if there were ideas and visions, then there wouldn't be such an explanation, and I'm not going to repeat some of the sentences in that explanation, because each of the following is denying the previous one. There's only one thing I'd point to. If in this confusing policy – what should be burdened with excise duty – you have taken a little care of it, then you would understand one fact that excise duty on the product, regardless of its origin. However, last time, we made you accept that through excise policy a more significant impact is being made on the essence of economic policy and that some mild advantage is being given to domestic products, starting with your intrinsicity which is also laid down in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, where you also protect your domestic product. Here's what your minister didn't realize, so he denied you with a bill like this. However, since the excise duties were quite sufficient, let us focus on this other law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. When a yearly view can be found the following: anything that can't be nice will probably have to be forced, and complete changes to a more democratic tax system law, and that was present two years ago when the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration were adopted, they had to endure this change. Of course, anything related to Bozidar Djelic must be changed because his blood enemy Mladjan Dinkic came. And, by that logic of things, changes are being carried out, and they mean, for example, is amended by Article 10 of the Law, so the time limit for return of funds wrongly or more paid from 15 days is increased to 25 days. That's the deadline. What does that mean? This means that the state simply serves other people's money, which never belonged to it, and extends its deadline. Djelic only asked for 15 days to use it, but Dinkic takes 25 days. He wants to secure a little longer liquidity of the budget, etc. Well, then, Article 26 is amended, a new position is added and says – the bank is obliged to suspend the execution of the tax payer's transfer orders from the taxpayer's account from the moment of acceptance of the solution, except for the purpose of tax-based settlement. To make things weirder, it refers to a provision relating to the tax identification number. If the tax administration finds that there's something else needed, so the taxpayer didn't deliver it, then he can block it. You see, further, Article 29 has suffered a change which implies that the tax procedure and the tax authority are mixed into the legal person's status matter, so the court will not be able to register the establishment of a legal person in the register, so it will not register the establishment of a legal person and the activities in the relevant register without proof of the tax paid and of the subsequent tax duties of the founders and of the previously established legal persons whose founders. So the Tax Act defines a condition for someone to sign into the business register. That, believe me, is nowhere on the globe of the Earth, but experts were able to invent something like that. Furthermore, a special feature of the new minister and new policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the amendment of Article 66. It is about temporary security measures that the tax administration can take; be careful – for the purpose of ensuring the collection of taxes that did not reach, if the tax administration suspects that someone can deprive it, if they can block it all, means the account of that legal person, until the moment of delivery of a solution to the mandatory collection of taxes and the withdrawal of money. So if the tax administration suspects some legal person that they won't be able to pay the tax, and that one that hasn't arrived yet, they can block it. So, how's he gonna work? How's he gonna secure traffic? How will the tax situation and the tax liability arise? Furthermore, in Article 68 of the Taxation Day, you see now a new term, as considered under the day when tax is paid, new experts have invented that this is the day when the amount is achieved by selling movable goods and immovableity in the process of forced tax collection and subsequent tax duties paid to the prescribed public income payment account. So whoever makes a forced payment by selling movable and immovable items owns a taxpayer's goods, so when he sells it, when he comes up with a tax bill, that's when he's supposed to settle his tax liability. As the state simply regulates this, with later dates, so that interest and other obligations and all taxpayers are quite pressured to know that there is no danger, because in part the encrypted message RR, GG, etc. Article 75 refers to the return of funds on the basis of a decision by the second-degree authority or court when the tax solution has been abolished. They are now adding - from the day of the delivery of an act that annuls, amends or abolishs a solution or another act of duty. What kind of restitution is that? What kind of vomit is that in your previous condition? I guess it goes back to the day and the state when an illegal solution was made, not when the authority received a second-degree solution that was something illegal. But it's all possible with us. Article 83 is said to be - the cost of a tax offense determines the tax administration of 5% of the amount of fines imposed and at least 500 dinars. You see, in a misdemeanor procedure, there's a rule on a flat-rate person, so if it's less than 5%, then there's 500 dinars, but when you hear new provisions on violations and these other sanctions, you'll see that the fine goes from double to twenty times the amount of unpaid tax. Well, even if one dollar didn't pay, he's gonna pay 5,000 dinars. But we'll talk about it about the amendment. What's interesting is, I don't know how you guys agreed to do it in the coalition, it's obviously a concept that individual laws define crimes, which must disappear from legal life, because there are new crimes here that don't have any of the elements on which something could stand in this law. If there are elements of criminal responsibility, change Criminal Law, define procedure and a special chapter, because now we are witnessing two separate processes. One part of the government is conducting a procedure, that is, preparing to regulate criminal law, to make all criminal acts in one criminal law, to throw out some criminal acts that do not have any of the basic conditions to be in criminal law. Now we've got some new crimes going on. Be assured, since I know what court practice is, and I know what the Supreme Court's views are on these issues that you've brought into this, I must tell you that these crimes are not going to go to court like this. Don't get me wrong, this is how I protect someone. No, I'm not protecting someone, I'm just telling you there's going to be a problem, because you think you've regulated one situation, and it's not regulated. Know, in these waters, the best of those who are guaranteed to be able to play the rules in peace. Probably not your wish, but I'm telling you, the views of court practice exist around a registered, unregistered business space, warehouses, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3101	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic. The remaining time is two minutes and ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the National Assembly, is a clear indication to Serbian citizens that the ruling coalition does not act unitedly in the matter of law-making. The legislative authority of this call should discuss and adopt the Excise Law within 45 days, since the law has been passed and adopted by the assembly majority, and the question now arises - what is the government of the Republic of Serbia, which again asks the Assembly within 45 days to pass a law in the form of a proposal, completed, but with changes directly affecting the standard of Serbian citizens. As the main reasons for the adoption of this proposal in the legislative proposal, the government of the Republic of Serbia cited harmonisation of excise policy with European Union rules, harmonisation of excise policy with the Republic of Montenegro and the provision of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's obvious the government didn't consider the standard of citizens here. That is the basic thing: there is no question whether Serbian citizens can stand such an excise policy by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since I have little time, what is particularly important, I am glad that the minsitar has come, the real consequence of increasing the excise on diesel fuel is the increase, above all, of transport costs, which causes a rise in the prices of all products and services, and which will again cause negative consequences on the overall economy in Serbia, in general. The real consequences of such a policy, forced in the economic sphere by Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus and Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, will be the destruction of domestic production. Serbian citizens should know that such legal solutions have far-reaching negative consequences on their standard, as well as domestic production and economy in Serbia. So you can't justify passing laws like this, which will directly affect... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... to the decline of citizens' standards and the destruction of the entire economy and domestic production. Finally, given everything I have stated, a clear line of distinction can be drawn between those who use fascist methods of conquering government and those who fight for democratic conquest of power. It's clear that the SRS... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and Dr Vojislav Seselj patriotic and democratic forces in Serbia. That is why, with the support of the Serbian citizens, as never before, we will beat you in the upcoming presidential elections. Like it or not... (Chairman: People's Parliament, you've overstepped your time.) )......................................................................................................... Serbia will elect the president of Serbia after 13 June, and that will be, I'm sure, Tomislav Nikolic. It will be a real, absolutely victory for democracy in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3103	Replica, MP Branislav Ristivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3104	I see that, imported fellow MPs, from the fair play behind this pay phone, there will be nothing, as far as I can get back to you, distinguished colleagues of the SRS. Your presidential candidate, Toma Nikolic, will snap in the second round and lose the election, and Mr. Marsican will get it. You're telling us all about election gatherings, and you're talking about fucking. Real, three dinars of bread. Who are you going to convince? You're the champions of social demagogy, and you're gonna snap in election 27, and then you're just gonna scratch yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3105	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used the right set out in Article 89. Rules of Procedure. MP Bojan Pajtic, MP group DS - Boris Tadic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3106	The esteemed chairman, Mr. Minister, anyone who thinks he will beat Boris Tadic in these presidential elections obviously knows very little about political opportunities in Serbia. But that's not why I answered, so I volunteered to recapture the position of the DS parliamentary group on the proposal for these two laws. Parliament has been turned a little bit into a show, which would be nice if we didn't have draft laws on the agenda that have a dramatic effect on the standard of Serbian citizens and I think it's high time for Parliament's work to be decent and serious, because Serbia and our citizens find themselves economically in a difficult enough situation to entertain them in this manner. First of all, I have to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that we have not received answers to the remarks we have made regarding this law. We have pointed to a set of legal objections, a set of economic objections to this law, we have pointed out that this law could not possibly be found on the agenda of parliament, as many as it was before this Parliament three weeks ago, and so much as Parliament voted in favour of this bill with amendments, and so much as the MPs finally voted for something that was not supported by the government. It is a real parliamentaryism. We cannot talk about the division of power if parliament practically returns to the correctional exam or if it is given a "leave" if it votes on an amendment that is not in the government's best interest. This law could not be found on the agenda by emergency procedure, as the Rules of Procedure very clearly define that only if there are adverse consequences for human health, life and safety, the safety of the country and the work of the authorities and organisations due to the failure of the law must it be adopted by an urgent procedure. Why do I say that? Because an emergency procedure means reducing the constitutional rights of the MPs. The emergency procedure means MPs do not have time to prepare for the agenda, they do not have enough time to submit the amendments. They don't have enough time to look at the long agenda we've received for this session and the MPs whose duty and role is to influence and improve the amendments to the bill are simply not in a position to do so. That is why the Rules of Procedure, in a very clear, restrictive, strict way, define exceptions, not the rules under which the laws are proposed by an urgent procedure. The constitutional deadline provided for the entry into force of the law of eight days has been violated in two draft laws, again past the Constitution. The constitution says that only if there are particularly justified reasons for an eight-day period can be shorter, but it can never be shorter, so it is in criminal law, so it is in every legislation that imposes certain obligations on citizens. It cannot be shorter than eight days because it takes time for citizens, for legal persons, for natural persons to get acquainted with the provisions of the law, which and how they affect their standards, to operate legal persons. We are not satisfied with the explanation that this proposal for a law on amendments to the Excise Act establishes some balance on the market. We do not think that burdening citizens, a new charge of 2.90 dinars per litre of diesel fuel is something that is good for citizens or something that balances the situation on the market. On the contrary, this way the standard of citizens decreases, prices of all products are increasing, as the price of petrol and the price of diesel inevitably enters the structure of the product and we do not understand why it is only 0.4% of the impact of this price on these products, since it is proposed to increase excise duties by about a quarter and is in front of us in the bill of law. Motor vehicles have become a privilege to the rich in the country. First, three weeks ago, we adopted a dramatic increase in the excise duty on gasoline, and right after that, a significant price of gasoline rose. Same thing's gonna happen with diesel fuel. We have proposed an amendment and I really ask that we be rational, in a way that we were rational three weeks ago, when we have mostly defined that the bill on excise duties, which was then on the agenda of the Assembly, cannot in such a way and so drastically burden the citizens of Serbia. I urge you to vote in favour of our amendment that we have submitted to this bill and to save what can be saved. We warned that the budget was unrealistically projected, that the IMF would have objections to the deficit as foreseen in the draft budget. We warned that as a parliament, we would be burdened with constant rebelances and constant bill proposals that those holes, which were originally made in the budget, would have to be filled in. Valtazar Bogisic says - as the coat of arms is born, time does not correct; it seems that from this budget to the end of the year there will be nothing and that we will really have to resolve the consequences of the badly designed budget by the end of the year. We have warned that the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act introduces dragon sanctions for violations in this area, and especially the most drastic one is a fine of a million dinars for a violation if a legal person, i.e. a representative of a legal person, is a little late to register a register, i.e. to apply to the competent institution for the tax administration. A million dinars is something that any legal person, any legal person in Serbia today, can hardly stand, and in this way we certainly do not in any way improve the work of legal persons in this country, nor improve the functioning of the tax procedure and the tax system. What also concerns us when we talk about parliamentaryism in this country, especially in this house, is a permanent problem not only of the level of discussion in parliament, but of the constant problem with the presence of the majority in this parliament. It's something that's traumatic. The opposition MPs are really trying really hard to fix the amendments to the laws that lie ahead of us. We have not been heard very often, and today, unfortunately, we have also not been heard from the government's representatives, and what we are asking you to do is at least a minimum responsibility to what the government's legal proposals are. For this reason, pursuant to Article 82(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I request that the quorum be determined for the work of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3107	Dear People's Messengers, to determine the quorum. Since we have a quorum, we can continue our work. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups who have not used their right, want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLACES ON ACCISATIONS (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, Hranislav Peric, Vitomir Milosevic, Milorad Mircic and Brance Stojanovic on the bill. National MP Vitomir Milosevic withdrew the amendments he submitted to Article 4. It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, Hranislav Peric and Vitomir Milosevic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3108	When this amendment was on the agenda, I didn't answer to defend it, and I'm not gonna do it today, so it doesn't spoil anything. It's too much to talk about. He's very famous, everyone knows about him, all MPs and the entire public, etc. Anything I say is too high.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3109	Anyone else want a word? MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3110	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the amendment we discussed in the debate in principle. counterpart Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović suggested that Article 2 be deleted. It's a bill of law. It encourages that counterpart Peric, who belongs to the majority in this House, has also submitted the same amendment, which keeps us in the belief that a situation like we had three weeks ago can happen, that MPs, responsible for citizens and their voters, refuse to find such an increase in excise duty, or be adopted as part of the bill. So, co-worker Ruzdic-Trifunović suggested deleting Article 2. It is not unacceptable, since this bill consists of several members, and of members who predict excise duties on alcoholic beverages and on some other products. That's acceptable. Therefore, this law is not fully unacceptable and we would be prepared to vote in favour of the amendment and supplementation of the Excise Act in general if such an amendment were accepted. Indeed, accepting such an amendment would contribute to the popularity of both MPs and the National Assembly. It is quite certain that despite the government's disagreement with such an amendment and not agreeing three weeks ago, MPs are the final word. So, please, dear colleagues, let's adopt this amendment and really, without any pathetics, spare the citizens of Serbia this dramatic increase in diesel fuel prices.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3111	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a finance minister in the government, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3112	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, 3.5 billion dinars, which will be an inflow into the Republic of Serbia's budget if the Assembly adopts an increase in the excise duty on diesel fuel by 2.9 dinar per litre, it is necessary to finance public expenditures, i.e. to reduce delays accumulated in previous years based on some social expenditures, above all, on unemployment benefits and on agricultural pensions. Namely, the debt on the basis of farm pensions is 22.5 pensions. It's a debt that the finance ministry came from the previous government. By adopting this amendment, by filling the budget with an additional 3.5 billion dinars, a week after the adoption of this amendment, which is why it is proposed to enter into force immediately after the vote in the Assembly, it will start a rapid reduction of delays in the cost of agricultural pensions and a reduction of the delay in the payment of unemployment benefits. So voting for this amendment will pay a little more people who drive - 2.9 dinars per litre. The price of the diesel will still be below the price of the county. Note that after an increase in excise duty on three dinars, gasoline has accumulated 1.8 dinars. This is 1.5 based on excise duty and 20% on sales taxes, which means this will not significantly affect prices, but will significantly increase the budget of the Republic of Serbia and contribute to the reduction of delays, which the previous government made towards the unemployed and farmers on the basis of pension payments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3113	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3114	When the budget was adopted, we said there would be problems, because the budget has a terrible deficit. I'd just like to remind you that the government has said that there is a solution to this problem. The solution wasn't found in London either, it was a bump that came from there. Councillors from abroad didn't help. We've offered you a formula to solve the deficit problem. I'll just remind you that Mr. Arsic went from this pay phone at least five times from position to position and pointed out why these positions should not be in the Republic of Serbia's budget. You know, it's not right that you now honor the former government when you were part of that government. We here have a principled disagreement that in 15 days we are going to the correctional exam. That's the first thing. Second of all, you have no argument for what you claim. Your argument is cost. There are some obligations that need to be met, there are no other options, let's raise diesel fuel prices. That's what you went out with. Then you're talking about some kind of disparity. Well, the disparities between us and abroad are all over the points, all over the segments. You just said - the distance between the price of gasoline and the price of diesel fuel. Well, of course, when you had most last time, so you voted to increase the excise duty on motor gasoline. We cannot give you consent to this increase. Rest assured, you will not, on this basis, increase revenue, because you will lose on sales tax, you will lose on other items. It's just that you're being damaged through Belgrade and you see some car-driving fireflies and some mobsters who are able to have the means and that they can drive all day long, that's your problem. But go through Serbia's interior and you'll see that from 9:00 p.m. in cities there's no traffic. That's what we're talking about. You're talking about some kind of social demagogy. Well, the biggest social demagogy is just that: you have to increase the price, you have to increase the excise duty to get someone else. Who else can get it? You'll see for yourself in a few months how to wear this all over your head. That is why we say and do not criticise you just for criticism – there are resources, there are opportunities. Delete some agencies that do some unnecessary work, reorganize, fix up a little state administration, cut costs based on a work contract, cut the costs you have by paying some imaginary institutes to give you failed translations of some laws from abroad. Make some savings. This government doesn't want to make savings. What's the plan? Here's a classic example. A few days ago, you had a chance to read that the government had come up with a solution to allocate 33.5 million from the current budget reserve and move to a neighbouring location, where funds for the election of the President of the Republic are located. 33.5 million were moved there, and only 12 were planned. The minister didn't even know what the law looked like, which is the obligation of the budget, and then he wandered and said – we have to reduce 10 times, to zero, zero, zero, etc. When they told him what it was about, he used the reserve. Look at your position, look at your budget. Find your savings. You form everything and everything. You promise here, you say some things, like, everything's gonna be fine. We're trying to stop you, to tell you that we're not going to vote for this. If I were at some coalition rally in Serbia, I'd applaud you. If you decide to commit political suicide, do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3115	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Please, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3116	Maybe I wouldn't even come out to explain the amendment, 'cause I did it last time I thought I already took it off the agenda, 'cause last time it was the Excise Act, it didn't go through. However, when I heard the minister say that this will cover the budget minus, I wonder again if it is possible that the budget is projected, is it possible that the revenues are not planned properly, i.e. they are related to the increase of excise duties on gasoline, i.e. oil derivatives. This increase will affect all citizens, not just the rich, but everything, it will cause an increase in the price of all products, because they have ties to oil derivatives. We might make some money here and fill the budget, but how are we going to empty it? which deficits will arise where the budget is scheduled to be charged with sales tax and some other taxes whose negative effect this will cause. You probably remember I was wondering what it would have been like if in time the bill had been passed last time he was on the agenda, so they wouldn't be late for retirement. Are we going to expect something to be late if we fail to pass this bill? I have to remind you of that story about the Belgrade Refinery that only in the Balkans has a plant, a mini-refinery, for the processing of old oil – which causes the biggest ecological disaster in us if it pours into rivers, pours on the ground or works with it as it is not appropriate – and it makes such oil a new oil and earns on it. Is it possible that in this way we're going to put such a refinery in a situation that it can't process it anymore, because it's not worth it. The other day, I heard a piece of information that totally grabbed me. I learned that the Administration is where the cars used by both the Assembly and the Government, meaning, that administration, but what it's called, are for these jobs, which manages all the good governments and the Assembly, used to be used only by the Belgrade Refinery. People told me that they bought their oils, that they were very good and that they were as good as the sides, but they were three times cheaper. However, when they delivered oil to them, at the same time they came with barrels where they carried the old ones and processed them. Reprocessed this way. This is no longer done in the Administration, since this government is in power, old oil is not processed, and our administration uses foreign oil, which is three times more expensive than the one produced by the Belgrade Refinery. What concerns me in the situation where it collects everything from us because of the purchase of oil derivatives and why I ask for the abolition of this member is that this way we will be in a position to deal with this ecological waste, which has been told to me by people in the Belgrade Refinery, in a way that it is an ecological bomb for us. That's what I'm personally concerned about, in addition to the collection of high excise duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3117	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3118	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I especially report on this amendment, because in 2000, when we inherited about 20 outstanding pensions, I think of the pensions of farmers who were poor, nothing, just to remind me, it was about 300 dinars a month – in three years we failed to solve this problem. I can't understand that someone wants to prevent this problem from being solved, because someone finally showed up, a government that's going to solve it, I mean this problem, because imagine what it would be like for pensioners in Belgrade if they hadn't received their pensions for 22 months, and at the same time they're so small. I'll just point out that after that, there's also an increase in peasant pensions, which are finally now and at 2,500 dinars, they should be decent, at least look like pensions, not average, but at least the lowest labor pensions. What's important in the whole story, I think the MPs who talk about this well know that the price of elevators is much lower than in the time of government unity. The peasants, I mentioned that earlier when I was talking, they paid 30 dinars, and then I was also a peasant, a little more than now, paying 2.5 stamps. I remember a good time when I was paying for five marks of gasoline and then you didn't think of this pay phone to say, people, our people can't pay for it. So, the budget was made in 15 days, my colleague, the budget was made in 15 days, and you know how the budget is made. You know the budget comes with money for both social cases and newborn babies, and for the third child, for pensions and wages. Of course, the budget that's been passed in 15 days has been given a problem here in the Assembly, you haven't given the government 90 days, the minimum ones, and now you've talked about how the government is working for this time. Your head of Parliament said we'll give the government 90 days, then we'll talk afterwards. I think you should respect that and let the peasants finally receive their back pensions, to light up a day when they will receive a month's pension, not wait two years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3119	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3120	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I think this amendment, which suggests that the price of diesel excises should remain at the same level, should be accepted. It should be accepted. And even those taxes on motor gasoline we've raised should also be returned to the previous level, because that's the impression I get when I listen to Mr. Minister explain the proposals of these laws here, so he says that our increase in production is 11%. So, slightly less than 5% of those 11% are the value of excise duties on motor gasoline and diesel fuel. He says the tax hike is 21%, he also said that 50% so far has been tax collection, and if 21% is higher, it is now about 60% on the total product. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? (Mladjan Dinkic, from the site: count a little better. You better count a little better. Furthermore, diesel fuel, ladies and gentlemen, is already more expensive for the uninformed. Diesel fuel was 38.40 dinars, and now it's 40 dinars. Excise prices aren't up. Gas is also expensive, from 50 dinars to 52.70 dinars. The explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia, when it passed the regulation, is at least heard from public information funds, because the increase in oil derivatives is caused by a higher price of crude oil on the world market. By doing so, there are higher State interventions in oil and oil products, so we can freely say that through the increase in production, through better tax collection and through already increased oil and oil prices, through the sales of goods, we will make up for the 3.5 billion missing dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget. If it is true that the government of the Republic of Serbia has raised prices for this reason, it means that the accumulation of oil and oil derivatives on the basis of excise duties is yet to be expected and will likely happen after the presidential elections, because it is some kind of government tactics of the Republic of Serbia. I also believe that it is unnecessary to increase excise duties on motor gasoline and diesel fuel and because of Article 17 of the Law, the already existing Excise Law, which says - the dinar amount of excise duties of this law is consistent three months with the price growth rate on a small scale according to the authority's data on statistics. That means, if you want to increase the excise duty on certain products you have this provision of the law, or you have inflation that you do not want to admit, and in this way you want to make up for that deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget. When it comes to farmers' pensions, I agree that these pensions should be paid off, I agree they should be bigger, but, gentlemen, it can't be done like this. First I take it from you to get it back. This is done by saving in the Republic of Serbia's budget. As far as I can tell, the way you've projected your budget, there's nothing from that savings.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3121	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Goran Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3122	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the ruling coalition does not, of course, suggest an increase in excise duty with enthusiasm, it is simply necessary to bring some parameters into line, to, among other things, make the budget more efficient and to ensure conditions for the payment of budgetary users and other functions of the state. Therefore, the DSS parliamentary group will not vote in favour of this amendment, which, besides, has no intention of correcting this law and is essentially not a real amendment, but used for a demagogue debate that cares about the people and does not care. So we heard the incredible information that this increase in excise duty will lead to an increase in diesel fuel price, which will be lower at the end of the price in the environment, condition that almost no one drives cars in Serbia anymore, so here, as we heard from one MP, after nine hours of our street will be empty. There won't be any cars on them, and they'll probably ride bikes, like they used to in the People's Republic of China. And you realize that it's a complete untruth, an absolute demagogue flossula. From the second parliamentary group we heard here, too, an amazing explanation, suddenly more than 50 days of this government's domestic motor oil, which is more expensive, because this government simply wants only expensive goods and that side. It's a complete lie. This also led to an explanation that, that is, the used motor oil is being scattered across Serbia and used as an ecological bomb. The Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection, i.e. the Department for Environmental Protection since the start of the new government's function, has made every effort to detect environmental bombs in Serbia, and among other things has discovered several warehouses of used motor oil and other dangerous environmental resources, and has made them drained in an extremely harmless manner. Therefore, both observations, i.e. the explanation, are fully demagogue floscules and have been used in the campaign. The government will make every effort, and these laws go in such a way as to facilitate the position of citizens. Farmers will tell you that the burden of these excise duties will lead to an increase in diesel fuel prices, which, eventually, will increase the cost of processing one hectare of land per year by 300 dinars, while at the same time it seems much to get some other good conditions. Therefore, do not use a pay phone for an election campaign, but perform with serious arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3123	The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic. Please, MP, Mrs. Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović is looking for a replica. You've been misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3124	An esteemed colleague I would suggest that he go to the Refinery of Belgrade and inform himself there, if they are the only ones in the Balkans who have the facility I called - the minifinery, for the refinement of motor oil. Once you've informed yourself, and that's the only way to really put off that terrible poison, then we can pollute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3125	The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic, on behalf of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good if Serbia had a healthy economy, so that the budget would be filled with sound real resources. Unfortunately, in the situation in which Serbia is, when everything is destroyed, destroyed and destroyed, of course, from 1996 to 2000, Serbia has gone through the agony from 2000 to 2003, all sold out and sold out, of course, that the budget must be filled in exactly this way, by reducing, by increasing certain tax bases, by reducing, by increasing certain excise duties. I'm one of the MPs who, when this law was, voted against, but now I'm going to vote for it. Why? It's because there's been a lot of demagogue talk about whether or not it's necessary, whether or not it's necessary, how it's going to be used. It is clear that in a fragmented economy that Serbia has, in some ways, tax bases have to climb, introduce, reduce by certain things. When we voted, unfortunately, certain leaders of certain opposition parties were on all local media and said MPs of the ruling structures had violated the law. Look, they were eager to help us vote for us to mutilate that law. Now, since we've broken the law, as they've spoken, we've got rights and we've got rights and we've got rights and we realize that we've made a mistake. When I found out that in Kragujevac only in the military factory for the inherited debt is 60 million dollars, when it takes a minimum now 65 billion or millions, I don't know exactly; mostly, I see Mr. Pajtic laughing sweetly; Mr. Pajtić, you have destroyed and ruined the military factory, ruined the military industry, you with your government. Now, so much is owed in this country that it's hard to remember everything. This is 60 billion, this is 20 billion, this is 10, this is 65 million. Who's gonna remember all those numbers, Mr. Pittice? Of course, it is evident that this government is facing major economic and financial problems, that all those problems it inherited will have to solve, it will have to pay both pensions and pay, and then it is normal to do something about tax increases and excise duties. Here, I voted against it, now I'm going to vote for, for two reasons. First, not to be the one who disfigured the law. Second, to correct that distance between gasoline and diesel. At the end of the line, it would be an injustice for those who spend gasoline to pay a higher price, and for those who spend diesel significantly lower the price. As far as agricultural producers are concerned, the government will certainly provide for additional stimulating means for farmers and agriculture not to feel it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3127	Replica, MP Bojan Pajtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3128	Dear colleague, the word until you say it is your property. The moment you take that word out after the pay phone, so whether a million or a billion is the same, then just expect us to laugh. The position and theme of the "Red Flag" is extremely difficult, and when you talk about the government, the happy situation is that we have an MP from Kragujevac, so he gave me what the previous republican government did, nine million dinars of "Red Flag" were paid monthly for personal incomes and no personal income was delayed. Five million dinars have been paid in the last four months. The way I hear it, the other day, you were in D.C. for the first time, so no wonder you didn't know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3129	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Brance Stojanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3130	The point of the amendment is to draw attention to the ministry and government that domestic producers are not only protected by increasing or introducing excise duties, in this particular case on imported non-alcoholic beverages and natural juices. Because if nothing else we had experience, although the current minister at the time and the truth worked as an expert at the head of a bank, so we had a similar opportunity when we listened to explanations to introduce additional taxes on tobacco and tobacco processing, on the side of cigarettes, and then it turned out for a short period that all domestic producers were present in Serbia with cigarettes, because Philip Morris became the owner of the tobacco factory. This is how it's gonna be in this case. We are introducing something new, which is – excise juices on natural juices, increasing to non-alcoholic drinks, and the question is only the moment when this government will privatise all the factories dealing with the production of non-alcoholic beverages, juices, and here we see a hint that they will also enter the production of alcoholic beverages. So we won't make a difference. Why are we bringing this now, i.e. such a law which implies an increase. We're not gonna have any effect. We won't God know how to protect a domestic producer. If we want to do this honestly, or are such government intentions, then we need to do something about customs laws, because customs regulations are also protected by a domestic producer. And if we want the right effect, if we want the essence, then that domestic producer is stimulated by increasing the production of fruit and all products that participate in the creation of a finished product, in this case, non-alcoholic drinks or fruit juices. And not like this, to use demagogy. A colleague noted this well, defending the minister and his unsustainable attitudes. I think he's a colleague of the DSS. Demagogy should not be used, especially when it comes to government. The government has to show us what the ultimate effect is, and not say – here, we are now protecting producers, or fruit farmers, by introducing excises. Tomorrow it'll be a domestic producer and then we're out of effect. The budget deficit won't be much corrected this way. The ultimate effect will be small. What we did was nothing. We'll simply have something, so I remind you again, what the previous government had foreshadowed for us when it came to the processing and production of tobacco. Now there are representatives of the previous government. Some ministers, though the finance minister is not present, are fortunately Serbia's enthusiasm, but it is known that he was a great friend with the current one, so there will be even more enthusiasm once they are together again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3131	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? You didn't get the word, Mr. Mircic. [[Sagar. Voices - quorum.]] You're done with your story. The word has a minister in the government... Here you go. [[Sagar. Voices - quorum.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3132	Thank you. You know what, gentlemen of the Radicals (SRS ambassadors leaving the O.R.), you know, you're leaving the O.R. at the moment you were embarrassed in front of your voters. You're asking to lift the excise duty on fruit juices, you want to destroy the fruit industry in Serbia. So, is there a case, is it intentional, but it is a big surprise for the government of the Republic of Serbia as well, this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to introduce a 3.5 dinar excise juice per litre to import juices. As you know, domestic fruit juices are not subject to excise duty. The previous law has already introduced that import-refreshing non-alcoholic beverages are paid to excise 5.42 dinars per litre. Asking the SRS to lift the excise duty on domestic fruit juices shows all the demagogy, because if we have so many domestic quality fruit juice producers, if we have apples tossed because they can't be bought, because import fruit juices have flooded our market. And if it is necessary to protect domestic fruit growing and stimulate it, then we think it is celery to protect it in such a way that manufacturers, such as Fructal, Raush and other foreign producers would pay excise tax; they can, of course, import juices into Serbia, but those who want to buy foreign juice pay more than those who buy our companies' juices, such as Fresh End Co, Budimka and other fruit juice producers. Thus, Serbian citizens will find this logic difficult to understand. On the one hand, radicals reportedly care about the standard, when it comes to excise duties on diesel, and they forget that people in their day, while they ruled, had gas cans, no electricity, no excise duties were charged, and as one MP said, the fuel price was five marks. Far bigger than now. At the time, they didn't think of taking care of the citizens, and right now they're trying to say one thing, and that's what they're saying, and now they're obviously confusing the pots and embarrassing them, they're leaving the O.R. But the government of the Republic of Serbia hopes that MPs will refuse this amendment and that we will protect our domestic juice industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-12-0.u3133	Dear People's MPs, I wish you a pleasant holiday. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
