ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3391	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 142 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Goran Rakovic, Milan Markovic, Milutin Svevanović and Stanisa Stevanovic. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON THE REGISTRATION OF THE INDIVIDENTS (resuming in particular) Members of Parliament Slobodan Vuković and Slobodan Pajović submitted together. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the president of the Assembly has now said that the Legislative Committee has proposed that this amendment be rejected. I don't know how it's possible that he concluded it, because this amendment is in direct conflict with the Law on Lawyerry, because that is the position of the Legislative Committee. The law on law of law provides for something completely different than in this law. So, what did we propose with this amendment? We have proposed this amendment that it cannot apply to lawyers. Advocacy their status and their right to practice law, according to the Law on Lawyerry, and so far, according to all the law on barristers, they get an enrolment in the law of attorneys and lose the status of lawyers in the register of lawyers. This is essential for law enforcement and for the independence of law enforcement since when there is a lawyer, and this is the fluidity of democracy, since the French Revolution. The independence of lawyers is necessary, as it gives the People's MPs the right to the immunity of the Constitution, and not to be enjoyed and violated by MPs, of course, but to contribute to the establishment of the truth. So it's the Law on Lawyerry and Lawyerry in general, the world's lawyers, the imaginary service towards the state, according to the general social institutions, because they themselves, lawyers, choose themselves and exclude themselves from the profession. I want to tell you that since the Law on Lawyers was passed, which was passed by Lord Michael, he has not dared to propose such a law as you have here in Article 2 that lawyers gain the right to perform their duties by enrolment in some register, others, except that register, which is run by the Bar of Lawyers, on the basis of the decision of certain bodies of the Bar of Lawyers. Neither did King Alexander dare during the dictatorship, nor did Joseph Broz, nor did Slobodan Milosevic, and by this law, lawyers de facto lose their independence, because by law they gain law and lose the right to enrolment in some administrative register, the administrative register. I have to say the following: there have been talks here about various solutions for the register, so some countries, we've heard, like France, Germany, have a court register, and other countries have administrative registers again. Both, and those countries that regulate it by administrative means and those that regulate it within courts, all these countries do not include lawyers with this register of economic organisations. All countries have modern legal chambers and lawyers are being obtained and cease enrolment in the law firm, keeping the independence of law as one of the most important institutions that we have in our modern democratic system. I think that this amendment, despite the hasty decision of the Legislative Committee, will, because I say they obviously did not have in mind that the provision is contrary to the Law on Lawyerry, that this amendment will be adopted, a team that supports it and a group of MPs G17 plus. I think some other groups are going to propose it, and as we've heard it. Otherwise, it would be a really open attack on the independence of law enforcement, and that also means the development of democracy. We cannot be for developed democratic society, and in this way against the independence of law enforcement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3393	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? Yeah. ) Proposer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3394	Dear MPs, I really don't think it's right for me to report every time and I won't do it after any debate, and I haven't done it before. Here I have to clean up to save time. We have one important task to complete, it's these legal projects, and if we had such big discussions about things, then we'd just be wasting time. First, I would like to point out that the proposal and the amendment to Article 2 does not stand at all, for the reasons that Article 2 defines the concepts and I think that, concerning this amendment, it does not belong to Article 2 at all. But when it comes to lawyers, so people don't waste time and call back later, I'm going to say something about Article 4. As there was a need for this law not to close the possibility for other laws to determine that operators not covered by points (1) to (6) are to be entered in this register, it is provided for in point 7) that other entities are to be registered in accordance with the law. Since no other law provides that lawyers are registered in this register, lawyers are not registered under this law. I think this explanation helps save time in this debate, because we have important tasks for the adoption of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3395	Anyone else want a word? The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic, on behalf of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3396	I'm sorry, for a very short time, maybe just a minute or two the longest, this is a classic replacement thesis of a colleague who's a lawyer. They have nothing to do with lawyers, they've never been or will be business entities, they're not registered as private entrepreneurs, they're not gonna be able to be, they're not like businesses. This law does not apply to lawyers, and the classic replacement of the thesis and the alleged threat of a lawyer has completely missed the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3397	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Here you are, MP Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3398	This isn't about replacing thesis at all, but it's about the final line unclear whether the lawyers are covered by this law or not. The fact that lawyers register under the Law on Lawyerry is clear to all, but according to the definition of a business entity where service providers are involved, where lawyers are involved, then it can be interpreted that lawyers are economic operators who are obliged to register under this law. I think it is necessary to accept this amendment and that we no longer need to discuss it, because this amendment will address a question that is not unequivocally addressed by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3399	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee cares that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Jovan Todorovic withdraws the amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Krstin, Išpanović Istvan and Vladimir Homan. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3400	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is exactly the same as the amendment to Article 2, with us in our parliamentary group deeming it his place in Article 4, not Article 2. I have to say that lawyers are registered as entrepreneurs and that that's why we needed to intervene in this way in order to be sure that the law clearly and unequivocally would be introduced to lawyers not to apply this law. However, following an explanation by the minister, i.e. an explanation that in this point 7) "other entities which, according to the law, register in the Register", which is not under the Law on Lawyerry, I believe that this clarification is sufficient, that there is no need, which is said to be, that lawyers are yawning from whether they will have to register twice and whether someone on the counter in the income management will ask them for this registration or not. Here, we have also received assurances publicly here from the minister, so after this, I am withdrawing this amendment on behalf of the group of MPs who submitted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3401	National MP Jovan Palalic, written on 18 May 2004, withdrew the amendment to Article 6th point 9 of the bill. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment, with correction, legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would take the right to clarify this amendment that I have filed on behalf of the SRS, and I find that justified. Now I'm going to let you know what the reasons are. The SRS concept is such that the power to register economic operators remains in the real jurisdiction of trade courts, not in agencies as provided for by the law. I'll say a few things I didn't say yesterday, which are very important. There's been a classic replacement of thesis here. Commercial courts already exist in our legal system for about 50 years. In the '50s, they run the origins of the so-called. trade arbitration or major trade arbitration. That was why we singled out part of the disputes and transferred them to the founding so-called. business courts, and today trade courts. Therefore, registration of economic operators and disputes between economic operators were the basis for the establishment of these special courts. If we now eliminate this significant part of the registration and metric decision-making business, we will question the existence of trade courts. No one here talked about it yesterday, and in the opening statement, I just said briefly that trade courts, if this is excluded from their actual jurisdiction, would lose their individuality. Indeed, it will be so. In the reactions of the judges and the president of the trade courts to this debate, I can tell you that indeed the SRS has one big plus in all of this. Namely, the judges of trade courts had already addressed the competent economy ministry, the justice ministry, and addressed the National Assembly with a request to revise this and to keep this part of the work in the jurisdiction of the courts. I don't think there should be an empty story here about the fact that judges should not be denied their fundamental rights to judge and to make sure that judges are not registrators, but that judges make a metric decision. About what a subpoena and what judges should be doing, they've best pleaded at two of their sessions, and I'm going to show you the minutes from those sessions. It has been the record since 13 May 2003, where all judges of trade courts were present, except for the Trade Court in Zrenjanin and the Trade Court in Pristina. Also, I've been showing you the second record since 22 March 2004, with the agenda, also the one that includes our debate today. It's a unique conclusion, the judges want to judge and seek to judge what they've been doing so far. So don't take care of the judges, what they're going to do and whether it's honorable, honest and moral for them. It's their jurisdiction. I have one more thing to say: yesterday, one of the speakers from the ruling coalition said that we had amended the Law on Court Order here. That's not true. We haven't changed that. It's still under that law that the activity of the register is in the jurisdiction of these courts. What we said in the last members to stop the regulation, etc., is not mentioned anywhere in this basic law. Therefore, it must be said - the degree of this law ceases to apply to Article 24(2). Court-order law. It's not here. So, parallelly, I can't have these two institutes. As far as the jurisdiction of trade courts are concerned, we must make sure that these trade courts have done their job well, according to the assessment of the High Court of Commerce. Individual cases can be found and criticised, but if I talk about individual cases, then I'll say that in the Commercial Court of the King, they wouldn't let me out until they gave me registration in my hands. So, the same day I put up with them doing it. At the New Sad Trade Court, where I was wrong on my application, they knock and work for me, I just sign. These are some college relationships. We've got bad examples, but we've got lots of good examples. Generally, one who is competent to appreciate the work of trade courts has assessed this activity as very positive.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3403	The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic for the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3404	We, this amendment, not only advocated that the business of registration of economic operators should remain at the trade court, but I would also point to the position of 2nd of this amendment, which reads that conditions and the way in which technology and technical unity are provided and the particular functioning of the registration management system is governed by the minister of justice. Of course, in accordance with the basic principles on which the principles of registration are based in the court register, which you have announced in Article 3. It's a bill of law. We have not submitted any amendments to Article 3, because we consider these to be acceptable principles, but in order to ensure public access, availability, efficiency, we believe that it is necessary to give opportunity to existing competent authorities that are taking part in the register, means trade courts. In what way? By amending some provisions on the registration procedure and this provision of this amendment, we will require the Minister of Justice to make all these technical details related to software, to access the Internet, etc. by means of a sublegal act of regulation and to enable the implementation and effective fulfilment of these principles based on the whole concept of registration in the court register. That's what trade courts can do. Why the Minister of Justice? Because enrolment in the court register should resolutely belong to the Ministry of Justice, not the Ministry of Economy. To make it even weirder, we have a situation that the authorized representative of the motion for this bill is the Vice-President of the Government. He will certainly not enter the Assembly as radicals submit amendments, and as the first replacement comes the minister of economic relations with abroad. Judging by some of the things that happened in the previous and probably also in this government, the minister is only in charge of donations and since the whole concept of this law is how to take those 1.500,000 euros, you have mistakenly called them here to be a donation. It's sponsorship. So you have a sponsor from abroad who's willing to give you some money, and here the government appears as a female sponsorship recipient, and she is represented by Minister Bubalo of the male race, so the whole story comes down to it. There's not in this story some of the things that some have called for, that they're the reason why this is changing. Let's start in a row. Unique registration practice; it exists and is contained in decisions and views of the High Court of Commerce. Is she supposed to change? It should probably change when the system of recording and the availability of all information is technologically developed. So, the system needs to be given a chance, it needs to be upgraded, it needs to be arranged, and it needs to be allowed to do whatever it takes to implement the provisions of the Company Act, which speak of court registration and which say what everything should be available to all interested persons when it comes to the status of an economic operator. Furthermore, it is said that the judge should judge, we give him a chance. The judge takes a statement on the record, the judge provides evidence, not a judge, the judge receives statements, he takes willful statements, and he doesn't judge. The whole outsider procedure, 70% has no jurisdiction to judge but to do some business. When a statement is confirmed, and these statements of support to candidates for the President of the Republic are confirmed in court, regardless of what the official signed at the end of the day, it is still brought down by some judge and he does not judge again. So it's not just the judges who are judging, it's doing other judicial work. A registration job is supposed to be a judge's business. The SRS advocates to remain an existing state; far away either. We are not at all in favour of survival of the existing state of action. We're just trying to build on this situation in terms of meeting these principles that are needed, that everyone can see what's going on, that everyone can log in quickly, because some people warn us and say -- we end up in court today for one, possibly two bottoms, and this law needs to be done for five days. That's unnecessary. It is further said in an argument to preserve this law, someone said about fat fingers. Keep an eye on him, he's got fat fingers everywhere, not just in court.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3405	First the People's Messenger Marko Krstin, then the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and then.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3406	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am an MP whom my colleague Krasic meant, who explained from the ruling coalition some solutions to this law. First, I will refer to the part relating to the possibility that this law would put aside the jurisdiction of trade courts in the area of the register. Apparently, a fellow SRS lawyer says there are no such provisions. I'll read that provision again, and if I read it, it's there. Article 89: "The day of entry into force of this law shall end the jurisdiction of the trade courts for the registration and keeping of the register of economic operators. "So no matter how many times we repeat that it's gone, there it is. Is it supposed to be in the Courts' Law? It could stand, but it doesn't have to. The laws are the same legal force and, therefore, you can intervene with this law. Nor is it any particular practice to do something like that in this law. You have many laws where the provisions of these laws put out of force the provisions of other laws. This is where it was done. So there are no legal obstacles to that and that question has been formally resolved. As for the fact that trade courts are in a mood for this change, perhaps we who are in these courts might be able to say something on behalf of the parties, or lawyers representing the parties. The work of a register in all courts is done by one judge. That may be 5% of the work of a trade court and that judge is called a supervisory judge. What does that mean? In the register, 99% of jobs are done by middle-skilled officials, and they have the fax of a supervisory judge and then they hit those fax machines where they should and where they shouldn't. Then you have these and those kind of registrations. Let's not hide, these officers often do nadrising, which I say openly, they put together there and these and these patterns, they type it up, and the supervisory judge looks at it that much more letemically or most often when there's a problem. When there's no problem, you take the facsimile, and then you hit it, and then what the hell? As far as the judges are concerned that they will have no jurisdiction under this law, I don't think anyone who works in the state authorities is afraid to take his jurisdiction. I think there's a reverse ratio and we can talk about it. There won't be any jurisdiction here, because indeed the judges of the trade courts will do the judging. In the principled discussion of the law, I said that judges of trade courts would be tried by lawsuits, when it comes to enrolments that were based on untrue documents, incorrect documents, etc. So, the real court cases will really be done by the judges, and we'll be discharging that part of the court that was made by mid-species officers, who looked at it formally and put it on the faxes. As for the possibility of obtaining a certificate of status in the register, that possibility is nowhere near how colleagues show up – go and get it. This is about days, and when it comes to a trade court outside the seat, it's about months.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3407	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with article 100, I'm reporting, but because of something that I would say is a general social problem, something that happened in Serbia, about something that happened in Vrbas. We waited one night to see if any of the media would publish it, because they like to hear about other things immediately and to say who they are, how and how they threatened. I would also like to meet the president of the Assembly, who is not here, but also the chairman, and all the MPs in the National Assembly, and the entire Serbian public, that the city of Vrbas has won an ardent and written "death to the radicals". I brought that photo, not one, we got 36. Each place says "death to radicals", "I hate Serbs", drawing cowardly crosses, mostly across the face of Tomislav Nikolic, or posters with his face. We know who did this and we don't want to accuse those who didn't. That's what the former regime's representatives did, because some of these people were caught on the spot. I would ask the competent state authorities to act in accordance with the law, and I would warn all those who think that by creating a real fascist atmosphere in which only they are Democrats, because they have put that name in the name of their political party or the name of their political coalition, or whatever you want, or whatever you want, that they are not doing it in the future, because these are not bad, but terrible messages for the citizens of Serbia, terrible messages for all those who think differently from the representatives of media favorites. I ask them not to do it anymore, for a few reasons. The first reason is that no one from the SRS is and will not be afraid. The second reason is because we don't have a spare homeland, we don't and we don't want to leave Serbia, we don't want to run from anyone and we don't want to stay away from anyone. If you continue with this, you will force us to defend ourselves. (President: Time. You will force us to defend ourselves, and it will not be good for Serbia. Please stop this. It is high time you stopped the true racist messages, to break up with divisions in Serbia. If you keep doing that, it won't be good for Serbia, and I repeat, unlike some who keep saying they're gonna get away and run away, I don't know what or who, we don't have anywhere and we don't want anyone. (President: Time. We want to be on our own, we want to live the lives of ordinary people, and we don’t want to stay away from someone because we feel differently politically. I warn you once again, you will force us to defend ourselves, and it will not be good for you or for Serbia. We want the competent state authorities to resolve this, never to repeat itself again, and never to threaten political opponents with death again, or in any other way, as you did yesterday and today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3409	As you said yourself, it's a job for the authorities, not for the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3410	I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 99, which says, "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." I very much appreciate the great problem that the gentleman presented, but this is not the subject of our debate today. I think that it can and should be made public by a press conference or any other way, but the assembly speaker serves to discuss the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3411	National MP Alexander Vucic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3412	I apologize to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for, correctly, taking advantage of a business provision I could not call upon, and I wanted to point to this problem. Yeah, you're right, but I don't see what bothered you so much in three minutes. I think I've pointed out a much bigger problem, something much more dangerous and much more serious than, possibly, widely interpreting one norm of a sublegal legal act. It just seems to me that some people are trying to make a donkey out of mosquito situations. I'm not going to make any of this a tragedy or anyone from the SRS. We're just pointing out that this isn't the first case, but it's not a good case, because that's why someone's trying to drive fear into the bones of anyone who would say it's a radical in Serbia. We're just telling you that it won't scare us and that we don't even think about going out of the country, getting out of our way or keeping quiet, but we're going to stand up to it in the strictest possible way. If you are able and if we are all able to condemn such graphites, when they appear, about the Roma, about the Jews, about someone else, and I think that there is an undivided opinion in this House, then I think that there is an undivided opinion and that no one is allowed to come out and say – sorry, it doesn't matter, or you broke the Rules of Procedure because you showed pictures with paints and graphite "death to radicals". It's not one lonely case we've found before. I don't know what to call them, painted inscriptions. Someone did it organized. In the course of today, tomorrow morning, we will hand over all the information we have to the state authorities, the people we've seen, the ones we've seen, the ones we're going to point out and see how and how they're going to react to the state authorities. Fascism must not spread in Serbia and hate against political opponents, at least by threatening to die. Thank you for giving me the chance to point this out again. Thank you, because I think it is extremely dangerous, because this cannot be done by anyone in Serbia, no matter what he thinks about his political opponents. Yes, you think of us all the worst; yes, we think of you all the worst, but we will never write – death to these or death to those, as we ask to be properly tested and to see who are those who want to die to the radicals. There's no place on the loose. They belong in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3413	I fully agree with you, and I think every MP in this House thinks so, and it is the authorities that need to deal with this problem. According to the Rules of Procedure? MP Dragan Shormaz, come in. (Unfortunate, voices - on what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3414	The same way that Mr. Alexander Vukitch picked up. I just want to support Mr. Vukic's exposure, that what happened in Vrbas is really inadmissible, and that we can all ask the authorities who are competent to respond to it together. And I hope that, in the future, we will all lower political tensions in Serbia, which have begun to reheat in some way, and that we will all use a little more tolerance speech and that we will not call any parties in the myths, for example. Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's biggest traitor to the Serbian people, without any argument, because then such things can cause anything and everything in Serbia. So I hope we'll all be more careful in the future and take care of our speech, and of course we need state authorities to react to what happened in Verbas.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3415	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here is the word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, and the Messenger of the People, Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3416	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we from the SRS, from our parliamentary group, were yesterday very surprised by the comments of some of our colleagues who tried to downplay our very serious work and try to correct the government's draft laws. Comments that we are writing amendments for amendments, that we are submitting amendments with the same explanation, are simply pointless and we must – to convince the parliamentary majority that the amendments make sense, that our amendments are extremely well-intentioned, that we just want to draw attention to the government of Serbia, as the legislator of these laws, that we must compare our proposals with existing legal regulations and the Constitution of Serbia – multiplely explain our amendments, convinced that we will explain our intentions in the right way and present to you what the SRS, or our parliamentary group, is going to do here. The MP has the right but also the obligation to do exactly what the MPs of the SRS do. We are an opposition parliamentary group and our obligation is, and we will respect that obligation, to submit amendments, to try to arrange government proposals, or possibly the parliamentary majority, and we will continue to do so, whether someone likes it or not. Yesterday, it was said here that we, explaining our amendments, are making some kind of cost to the National Assembly and the Republic of Serbia. And you, ladies and gentlemen, here yourselves bring out that you spent one and a half billion euros and nothing to anyone. It is no cost to the state, and the cost is that the MP does what is his constitutional, legal and business obligation. It is also said that the MPs of the SRS use this speaker to promote our presidential candidate. It is possible that one of us is indeed exaggerating, but at least we have no dilemma, all 400,000 Serbian radicals know that he supports Tomislav Nikolic. A colleague who had remarked on such work yesterday must have a personal problem, because by yesterday he thought he should support the ruling coalition candidate, which makes the government, and here today or tomorrow he will have a candidate of the crown, and then he really has a problem -- for whom to define. As regards the amendment to Article 8, which I have reported, the very reasoning of this member is in favour of the claim that the SRS MPs are seriously and safely doing their job and that we are not here to just endure amendments, that some of our fellow Members from the ruling majority are nervous, yesterday it was obvious, and I am truly sorry. It would be a good idea if one who can't stand to see the MPs of Serbian radicals at this pay phone, and thinks he's supposed to sit here, and sit down, we don't mind, have a little diazepam, two milligrams, he'll calm down. In the amendment to Article 8, we followed our idea that business registries should continue to run business courts, not to form some new agencies, given that we are in principle against the formation of agencies, and if Serbian radicals once say they are principally against something, then they are constant, not like some who two days ago say they are abolishing agencies, and today they suggest that new agencies here should form. The purpose of this amendment was to regulate the way in which business registers are managed. That is why we have proposed that the conditions and the way in which technical and technological unity is provided and the specific functioning of the registration management system be governed by the Minister of Justice. So it's obvious the SRS thinks this area should be arranged. We have said in what way, so through economic courts, but we certainly think we should leave it to the minister of justice to arrange and provide technical and technological conditions for the management of a single register of economic operators. So I suggest you adopt this amendment. Be sure - it will improve the quality of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3417	The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic and then by Milos Aligurdic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3418	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the diversity of opinions is normally positive and it should exist in every Parliament. But, of course, it is not good when the opposition party says it is the ruling party or the ruling structure against trade courts. It's just that we're against trade courts. We just want one area to be better arranged, to make it more operational, to be celery and, of course, more transparent. We've heard a lot of stories, but no one who has said and defended trade courts here, and we have no intention of attacking trade courts at any moment, has said how many cases there are in front of unscheduled trade courts. How long does it take to solve certain items? Is it a month, two months, three months, a year or two, or three years, and whether there are unresolved disputes that have been debated before trade courts for ten years. For the first time, I've heard that someone complains about taking away some of his work and having less to do, which will be more operationally able to resolve its basic jurisdiction, which is the jurisdiction of the judge. Therefore, to keep the public informed, and to make it clear to everyone, we are not against trade courts, but we want to arrange some areas to make it better and more operational. Of course, the previous speaker took the opportunity to say that someone wanted to disrespect the Serbian Radical Party yesterday. It's just a matter of work. I had no intention of disrespecting anyone for one moment. I'm not at all the kind of man who wants to belittle a person, but of course, I have the right to express my position and my opinion. A moment ago, it was said that we would be sick of Serbia by a million and a half euros. That's not true. We have received a donation of a million and a half euros, to sort things out, to make one different way of registering business entities, so that this is transparent, operational, complex in one place, and that at any time, businessmen, we can get certain data within ten, fifteen, an hour. You today have no complex business registers in Serbia, neither in the Chamber nor in cooperatives, nor any of the MPs here can say exactly how many businesses there are in certain activities. So we want to go to Europe. Europe knows this, Europe has regulated it all, and if we want Serbia to go to Europe and Europe to enter Serbia, then we need to work things out from the ground and regulate. Therefore, I would end up using what Mr. Vukic said as a man to condemn, but don't transfer it to all MPs of the ruling structure if something is done by an individual. We condemn any individual who in some way wants to make a rematch and, of course, makes the situation difficult in Serbia even more difficult.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3419	National MP Milos Aligrudic, on the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3420	This amendment, as well as the other amendments submitted by the SRS, express a different view, a different concept compared to the way in which the register of economic operators is kept, and that is obvious. Namely, this different concept is already ensnared on the first amendment and then everything else is a reflection of the first one, and the first one is changed, and practically all amendments are brought down to one technical intervention, that wherever there is an agency for business registers and registration the word of a trade court, i.e. a registrar's judge. Therefore, this difference in concepts is the basis of this discussion and the only thing I can say here is that the DSS and the ruling coalition in Serbia and the general competent ministry when it proposed such a law, it came from a concept of which the EU and the countries of Europe are interested. This is a reform law, which should bring our legislation closer to EU legislation. What is proposed, on the other hand, is the practical return to the old system, the old system, and finally, when it intervenes like this in this regulation, which in a special way regulates the way in which the register is kept, then it becomes almost pointless. In that case, we didn't even have to pass this law. That's what we have in the regulations so far, so there's no reason. What these achieve, this law, is to release the trade courts of a unnecessary record. Something that's a burden in that court, because courts can't do their job, i.e. to decide in disputes between economic operators. The agency that serves here to run the register, which is provided here, is designed precisely for that reason, or is designed precisely to relieve the court and, on the other hand, to introduce the administrative procedure as a method of keeping records. Unlike the court case, there are two regular legal remedies here: one is an appeal for a solution and the other is a lawsuit in the administrative dispute, because administrative dispute is a practical place, the last instance in which a final solution can be refuted in administrative proceedings. But there was also a question in the earlier discussion here, which is about the third party, who can challenge the registration in the register. These third parties are at the disposal of the same trade court. Therefore, the trade court here affirms itself, and it does not diminish its significance, by discharging the trade court from a truly unnecessary record, which it does not have to keep. Something was said here by one of the previous speakers, that some members of the ruling coalition, and it is likely to be alluded to by the DSS, had previously said that they were against the agency, as it is said until two days ago, and that they advocated the introduction of agencies. That's just not true. The DSS has always advocated here that there are no agencies introduced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by its regulations, and we have always been against it, but all of those agencies or all of those bodies that need to do their jobs, which are introduced by law into this country, that is something we can be for, especially if these interventions really do have one reform course and this time a truly serious reform course in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3421	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basic principle that the SRS advocates is that we have arranged courts, where we have an entirely independent judiciary, or that we have an uninterrupted exercise of those entrusted transactions by three independent branches of government, which are executive, legislative and judicial. As for the legislative authorities and calling this on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is obvious that MPs, such as the ruling group, want to put things in a different direction through this bill of law. In order to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, and publicly broadcasts are primarily for us to send a message to citizens what our views are, how we represent the interests of the people, how we plead according to a specific legal proposal, I will have to say again what is basic, and what I said yesterday in the principle debate. It also refers to the amendment to Article 9 submitted by Dr Branislav Blažić, which clearly points to the necessity to retain the way the SRS advocates, i.e. not to grasp this newly established solution that is in line with the so-called "SRS". the first EU Directive. It is, in fact, that we have persistently and consistently advocated, all these years, that the position of the court employees, the arrangement of the courts and judges is improved and that there are uninterrupted conditions for them to meet, to carry out the law of entrusted matters. However, we were against the establishment of special courts, such as trade and appeals, but when, instead of a commercial court, there is a trade court, the basic thing to do by the competent ministry and the government, which has drawn up a budget with a deficit of 45 billion, and which, as well as how the interventions of taxpayers to finance courts, is to allow the courts to work more closely and thus to make real codification of all legal entities in our country. That would be no problem, and don't give us a transfer or transfer through your exposure, as one of the previous MPs has said, you will refer to our position and our general commitment, when it comes to these transactions, or the registration of economic operators. If it is acceptable for you that the proponent in the explanation said that only 31% of the countries have retained registration of economic operators in courts, then states leading countries in the EU and countries developed market economies, which are France, Austria and Germany, then you can see how pointless the reasoning of such an SRS attitude is, or as a counterargument, which advocates that it continues to be entrusted to courts. Since we have openly expressed our suspicion, and it has proved not only that it was a question of doubt, but valid arguments with the previous DOS government, that it was as incompetent as the Justice Minister at the time, as the entire government, to improve the position of judges, or to improve the work of the trade court, the same case is now with you. It is easiest with a fully served law not to be confused, and this is not what Vlahovic wrote, these are translated laws that all countries have voted in so-called. the environment, the transition countries as you like to call them, which are absolutely in the same text and which came from the European Union through that first directive. It is our right to advocate those solutions that, I repeat, have Austria, Germany and France. We believe both our judges and our trade courts are capable. We can't accept the minister's argument, one judge decides like this and the other one decides. Give them the opportunity, give them material conditions, give them technical conditions, and you will see that and how it is possible to carry out centralised records and to coordinate the number of economic operators, active and inactive. I told you yesterday and I repeat again, the Republic Public Revenue Administration, the competent authority of the Ministry of Finance in the field of local self-government can determine, that is, the obligation of every registered and entrepreneur and... (President: Time. I'm finishing... and the economic operator to submit a periodic report on its active or inactive participation in the economy. Don't tell us that these are ideal solutions, when we know that, just like the previous DOS government, and now before these elections, you were primarily unable to create a unique electoral list... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and we know that the radical government will be able, and this law will certainly be changed if you adopt it by a congregation majority, to arrange such a court business that we will have a unique record of all economic operators in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3423	On the occasion of the amendment, MP Zoran Krasic, and then MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3424	With this amendment, we follow the basic thread, where the court register should be, and where business entities should be registered. To better understand what the female proposer has written than what the receiving sponsorship wrote, I would direct your attention to Article 2(3) where it is said: "The registrar is a natural person who runs the register". So he's running the register. I would ask you to take a look at what you wrote in Article 8(1); it says, "The Register runs the Business Registers Agency through the Registerer." Furthermore, Article 9: "The registry shall be appointed by the Management Board of the Agency, with the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia". You further state how it is chosen, how it is resolved, and under what conditions. The next item of the agenda is the law on the business registers agency. It's a regulation that needs status per proposer to edit the agency. So, that provision about your registrator -- and that's not that registrator of "column, give me a shelf registrator," this is a man, a physical face. You see, according to all the postulates of some norm, it would probably have to be in this law, which is the next item of the agenda. Not to be taken as some big mistake. What does the SRS suggest? It suggests that Article 9 -- that "the court judge is appointed by the President of the Court for a period of four years, with the same person being re-determined as a registry judge". Of course, judges choose and resolve the National Assembly, and as you can see, the registrar, is not a folder but a registrar-physical person, appointed by the Government, or the Governing Board, with the consent of the Government. I guess that's where you can see some seriousness. You just said here that different practices exist and different personal experiences of who registered what company. Gentlemen, you're the government now. You have both criminal law and other laws, and you are able to apply, and to solve all the problems that exist in trade courts regarding enrolment. Someone just said that the current situation is such that one official just bangs fax, stamps on solutions and betrays maltenes to people and that's about the process. Gentlemen, if this registrar is, not that folder, but a man, a physical person, I warn that he is physically unable to be in 180 municipalities. It's likely that according to some dispersion system, he'll have assistants, associates, or deputies. Probably the same situation will be with his deputies, as well as with the officers who beat the fax, the seal, as one of the experts just said. Then tell me what this revolutionary reform change is looking at. She's gone. We are raising the central question of what will happen to a million and a half euros. One said this morning, so they're offering help, people, aman, let's get that money. It's not a matter of taking money. There's also been an offer for the Broadcasting Agency, so we've created a board of directors, so we've chosen it six times, so it doesn't exist today. You have agencies for small and medium-sized enterprises according to local self-governments that have no jurisdiction, have nothing, only costs. We've got a dozen agencies that the government finally wiped out, because she saw that I can't regulation to form. I'm not going to go into the agenda after this agenda point, and as far as the agency's status is concerned, and what you're proposing has no defined status. So here it is being moved to justify a million and a half euros and be sure, in that figure, 35% for consulting services that come from abroad, which a stranger gets. So you're laundering money together.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3425	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3426	This amendment shows that there are serious conceptal differences, where one advocates that one step should be taken as a step in equating the rules with the European Union, while others advocate something conservatively done, which is an old solution, which burdens the work of the courts. This amendment to Article 9 should be rejected and I suggest that it be rejected not only for conceptual reasons, for reasons of the difference in concepts, but because it is very strange in its structure, and I will point to this occasion. In Article 9, paragraph 2. The bill states that the registrar is appointed for a period of four years, with the same person being re-appointed as the registrar. You see, as the amendment -- the registrator's judge now determines the President of the Court for a period of four years, with the same person being re-determined as the registrator's judge. Listen, somebody seems to have loved this formula from Article 9. The bill, and not a step further than that, has decided to prescribe this term of four years and even, beware, the possibility that the president of the court may re-nominate the same person as the registrar's judge. Oh, no, you don't. The Law on Judges makes it very clear how judges are determined. That seems like a year. If you wanted to shut down the registries agency and get it all back to the level of the trade court, then it was worth simply suggesting, but I'm not going to teach you to delete Article 9 because then this appears as an excess. It's about one difference in concept. Therefore, we advocate to bring regulations that will bring us closer to the European Union, and not to pass those regulations, I will not be so difficult to express, which will distance us from the European Union, because there are countries that are similarly managed by registers, but that those rules that distance us from our intensity, from our wish, are that we run an efficient system and that we make the judiciary and the trade court work effectively, and in the way it has worked so far, it has not worked effectively. Whoever says that here isn't telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3427	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Krassic, replica? He didn't mention anyone, but an SRS MP came forward. Here you go. Please, he didn't mention any party or anyone. It's okay, come in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3428	This is where the flat-rates are expressed, as regards the progressiveness of these two laws, as they are to God us into the European Union, so I would strongly recommend that these two laws also be proposed by France, Germany and Austria, so that these countries become progressive. Our concept is clearly different from yours, not only by this law, but by many things in politics, but you are not in your concept, and you have laid it out in these two laws, you have not been consistent, so although you boast to many experts, you have failed to make two consistent laws that would be compatible. In Article 9, you regulate the choice of registrator, and by appointing and resolving the Management Board with the consent of the Government. This is not at all controversial, however, in the second law, it is the law on the Agency for Business Registers, in Article 8, the tasks carried out by the Management Board are set out. It now lists 1) the adoption of statutes, acts of the internal organisation; 2) the Rules of Procedure on its work; 3) proposes the amount of compensation for the services provided by the Agency; 4) adopts the annual work plan; 5) conducts the selection of auditors, not registrars, but auditors; 6) adopts the annual financial plan; 7) adopts the annual business report; 8) adopts financial reports and audit reports; 9) proposes measures to remove interference from the importance of effective functioning of the register; 10) performs other tasks established by law and statute. There's no mention of a registrar's choice. I don't know how you're going to pick that registrar, based on which member of the law you're going to choose. You didn't put the basic thing on the board to make a choice of registrar. In the view of the 3rd member, he says, "The government of the Republic of Serbia gives consent to the statute, the annual work plan and the annual financial plan." You again do not put in the final position that the government of the Republic of Serbia gives consent to the registrar's choice. You won't be able to pick a registrar. That system you designed, just like you designed it, you didn't design it with the help of your so-called. An experiment, so you won't even be able to apply it. Secondly, this will be seen later in the subsequent debate over the amendments, there is no way of appointing or setting up a registrator, because existing registries throughout and across this beautiful country, and how they will be asked, which will be their powers, what they will do, it will probably be the experts who will have to answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3429	The word has the People's Messenger Jovan Palalić, so please forgive me, so the word is Mr. Palalić, Verica Radeta, so Mr. Jojic. Excuse me, I thought you gave up, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to the clear stance that we have made during the principle discussion that we are in favour of a new concept proposed by the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, which is to remove the registration procedure from trade courts to a new registration agency, here I want to point out precisely on this amendment, since it was repeatedly stated yesterday that this proposed law violates many laws, and this amendment confirms that those who oppose this law are specifically violating the Law on Judges. It is said very clearly in this law that the president is suing the annual schedule to determine which judges to lead and judge. It is not clear, there is complete inconsistencies here, why this amendment stipulates that the president of a judge's trade court determines that he has been doing the work of registration for four years. What if this judge, after the first year of his work, shows a lack of urgency, if he violates the law, why so much trust has been given for four years. So it is clear here that the amendment and parliamentary group that opposes these proposed laws are also not consistent and the proposed amendments also violate the rules to be called upon when proposing these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3431	The Messenger of the People has the word of the Prophet, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and the Messenger of the people, Petar Jojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3432	In Article 9(1) of the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, the Government as a Proposer of this Law says: "The Registrar is appointed by the Agency's Management Board, with the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia". I'm asking the Government's representative if they forgot or accidentally or deliberately didn't write which conditions must be met by a person the Agency's Management Board will appoint as the registrar. Whether this person, I don't see anywhere in this bill, which is going to be a registrar, should be able to do business, whether it should have completed a bar elementary school, or whether it's enough to be a member or an activist of some of the political parties in power or perhaps one of the family members of some of the authorities. Since we have such experience with agencies, our suspicion is certainly fully justified and established. Therefore, counterpart Braislav Blazic proposed that Article 9. The law's proposal also said that the registrar's judge has appointed the President of the Court for a period of four years, with the same person being re-determined as the registry judge. This solution is a logical trail of our previous amendments and our basic thesis on the management of business registers in trade courts, as it has been in Serbia so far, as prescribed and regulated in modern and modern states, France, Germany and Austria. You look up to a lot to these countries, so I don't see why you didn't look up to where there really was a place to look at the legal solutions to this problem. The colleagues who commented on this amendment say we have rewritten this period of four years, to which a registrar is appointed and say it is not in accordance with the law governing the jurisdiction of the president of the courts. And who here from the Serbian Radicals has even said that we have a positive opinion of the Law on Courts. Of course, the Law of Courts isn't good for you either, but that's what we'll talk about when it's on the agenda. Now we're talking about solving this problem that you put before the MPs. None of the MPs from the SRS said that judges of trade courts complain because they are being reduced. We, ladies and gentlemen, are seriously talking about this law and are seriously explaining our amendments. We have both expressed our position and the view of the judges of trade courts that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and apparently the ruling majority in this assembly, do not trust our courts. Members of the SRS, unlike you, have no confidence in this agency that you plan to establish, for one simple reason, the board of directors and directors of this agency appoints and resolves the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Our trust is, in any case, greater in the judicial branch of power than in the executive branch of power. Of course, none of us said what we were also transferred here that the courts were effective, that there were no problems in the courts. On the contrary, we have been aware of both open and public for a long time that it takes a lot of things in courts to change and, of course, we are ready and we know concrete ways to make and what we would change in courts to make the courts effective and independent. When it comes to keeping a register of economic operators, it is certainly enough that existing commercial courts of equipment are technically-technological, that what you want to invest in the Agency, that 1.5 billion dollars you've probably already spent, so now you have to reverse-application to pass this law. You should have invested these funds in trade courts, not only to make it better and more efficient and keep registers of economic operators, but everything that was better and more efficient in the jurisdiction of trade courts, because the government of the Republic of Serbia as executive authority and the National Assembly should certainly take care of the material status and position of judges, and let the judges work by law and on their own. If we have objections specifically to a judge, of course, then we need to do what the law provides for such a judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3433	The word is proposed by the representative and Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3434	Understandably, all that is in the domain of stealing time I won't comment. There was one specific question concerning the conditions to be met by the registrar and Article 9. We have this settled in Article 8. The proposal for a law on the Agency for Economic Registers, where paragraph 2 states that the Management Board is carrying out the following tasks, and point 1) -- adopts a statute, an act on internal organisation and the systematisation of jobs and other general acts. As everywhere, the board of directors will also determine the systematization of jobs, with all the necessary conditions, and in the last position it is said that the government of the Republic of Serbia is giving consent to the statutes, the annual work plan and the annual financial plan. It is about a model as well as in all other public enterprises, where the Government appoints a board of directors, the Management Board appoints a director and also establishes all general normative acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3435	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again we have inflation of regulations, unnecessary and numerous laws that absolutely have no excuse to be passed, because in practice these laws will not do any better to the state of Serbia and the Serbian people than they are regulations that regulate the registration of economic operators. What is fundamental, if the promoter had to change or perfect anything, to improve, is to amend only certain provisions relating to the organisation and efficiency of trade courts. This is how you throw dust in the eyes of the Serbian people. How? Let the minister inform the MPs how much it is to register businesses from January 1st to this day. Aren't they capable of trading courts doing this? Such a claim cannot be accepted. Secondly, to criticise the work of trade courts as we did today and yesterday she heard inappropriately. Trade courts perform their duties, registration is carried out by sworn judges, who have sworn an oath, and trade courts will not allow politics to interfere and affect registration, and will not be able to influence judges of 16 trade courts in Serbia, as can be influenced through one agency. I don't see that there's so much rush and there's so much jag and need, that the citizens have expressed so much readiness and have pushed themselves to register with trade courts in the last few years. On the contrary, we have many entities that are registered, which are now deleted at their request, because they do not have the conditions for business. This bill would perhaps have some foothold if economic conditions were created that citizens could be largely stimulated, have an interest in registering and improving their performance. This law won't get us anything. We will only get that the Belgrade-based agency will form and establish, which will have district units, perhaps in 160 municipalities, because the agency's law provides that the agency has its headquarters in Belgrade and that it can have regional organisational units. If you leave that possibility, just so it can, that means, not the current minister, but maybe someone else who comes tomorrow says -- since I'm given the opportunity and foothold in the agency law, I'm going to form 160 district units now. How much will it cost Serbia and taxpayers? Very much so. We have expert judges in trade courts and I know that some political parties have complained about individuals and individual courts, for some of them known reasons and for which they know best. However, how is the issue of trade courts resolved? In that way, the competent judicial authorities shall monitor how many cases are in place, how many are registered, how much is the dispute in the commercial court, how long is the registration in the court register. But if we leave this to someone on the side, and for 50 years we've had trade courts, and before businesses, who have successfully performed registrations and water disputes, this foothold and position cannot be accepted. What's this all about? It leads to the formation of a large number of agencies. You know, in the previous government, how many agencies were there, and the question is, why the nine agencies were abolished, and why the new ones are now forming, where we're going. We're doing what was done in the previous regime. Therefore, I believe that this law will not do any better than the state of the existing law that should be perfected, built up and improved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3437	The word has a representative of the promoter and a National MP, Vojkan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3438	I would honestly ask all MPs and speakers if they could not replace the debate and the expertise of the judges. Neither in reason nor in two or three days of discussion has anyone here questioned the expertise of the judges. Indeed, whoever is using this story is a pure substitute for thesis. I've been paying attention to what I'm saying, and I don't know if the judges are doing it professionally or in a safe way. I also know that registration is too simple for judges. Judges deal with much more complex things. What's done for registration is done by middle school officials. The judges only have a control function. So it's about changing and introducing a modern system. No moment has been questioned by the expertise of the judges, even when it is said that there is a different case law. It's a fact, it's a fact. As soon as there are different courts, different people who decide, but I really think that it is incorrect, in the end, and according to my colleagues, because I have not mentioned any of the speakers who defended these proposals, that our judges are inextricable, nor have they evaluated their expertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3439	The word has been made by MP Vojkan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3440	I really feel like I was led astray when I listen to the MPs of the SRS in the Assembly and when I listen to your presidential candidate when he's in the campaign. Gentlemen of the Radicals, you support the status quo, you want it to remain as usual, you have that line, that part of the Serbian people has, that it has everything against everything that is new, which is reform and what is democratic. (President: Theme. ) Therefore, you use a replacement of thesis, it is also seen in the explanation of this amendment, which is that we are against judges of commercial judges and that we are against trade courts, which is absolutely not true. You say this does not create a more favourable economic environment, and I will remind you that in your campaigns you have always relied on the need to rely on our economy, to close ourselves in a ban, which will be called Serbia. Gentlemen of the Radicals, that won't work. When you use an argument to form a new agency, do not forget to say that we have abolished agencies that are not formed under the law, but based on sublegal acts, or regulations. We remain principled behind this position that we will not form any agency under the regulation, but will form it under the law, which is also defined by this law on a business register management agency. Therefore, do not replace the thesis, for it is this law that allows judges of trade courts to judge the metrics, to deal with the work for which they are chosen.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3441	Replica, authorised representative, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3442	Mr President, every MP has the right to submit an amendment to the draft law and to request an appropriate amendment to the proposed text. That's the right of all MPs. You've never heard from the SRS MPs that they resent that some MP submitted an amendment, because it is his original right. That's why no one should be nervous. As he must not be nervous because we consistently represent a position for which we have many reasons and have a foothold in positive regulations and in our legal system at all. Please don't accuse us of putting ourselves on the side of Germany when it comes to registering, not on the side of Ireland. Please don't be mad at us for not voting for your bill, just because we don't share the opinion that money from abroad should be taken for this and that we're happy that someone from some institute took the money and returned 35 percent of the money to that sponsor from abroad. Don't be mad at us if we recognize it properly, point out the problem and point out that there's no need for you to share judges. You're power now. If there are problems with the work of some trade courts, and here, all members of the Justice Committee have had the opportunity to see that some initiative has been launched to resolve the President of the Trade Court in Belgrade and probably because, by the number of cases and problems with enrolment in the court register, the leader in something bad. This gentleman, the President of the Court, has cut himself in pieces, so he's sending us some songs, if he can explain some things. Which he sent those songs to, we need to resolve, because he showed he didn't deserve to be the president of such a large trade court. Take a look at the paperwork, so you elected him president of the Trade Court in Belgrade two or three years ago. Don't let it be our fault now and we're supposed to be protecting Goran Kljajevic now. Far be it for us to protect him. Please don't. Don't move the subject. The theme is who took the money and the topic is why someone takes the money, why shares with someone from abroad, and why does he have to find cover to destroy something? A speaker just came out here, I see he's escaped now, says we're in favor of retaining an existing condition. We didn't. Should we tell you every time that we're not? We're asking him to change. You saw for yourself what we wanted with our amendments and what we're asking for to change in your proposal. We are not asking to change what is good in terms of the data recording process, to ensure the availability of these data to all legal persons and to all interested persons. We're not against it going on the Internet either. We have submitted an amendment that the minister of justice prescribes conditions and ways that technology works in a completely unique way. We're not against the idea of it being good and better, but we're against someone who hasn't used all the resources in the existing system, to build up an existing system, to make it more advanced, to easily move into something that's uncertain. For what? Because someone took the money. You're asking us to applaud you for taking the money.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3443	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Please, MP Nemanja Sarovic. I remind everyone that the theme of the amendment submitted by MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3444	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is not true that the MPs of the SRS are replacing the thesis here. The SRS, like all previous drafts of the law, has taken this proposal very seriously and given some amendments that are really fundamentally changing the text. But that, gentlemen, is our concept. That's what we think it's supposed to be. We're just right about that. It's not true that no one here has attacked judges in the last few days. We all heard a very good story about fat fingers. So in trade courts, employees had such thick fingers that they couldn't get the keys and that's why they couldn't keep an electronic record. So after that, we got an explanation that it was a metaphor. Gentlemen, I'm asking you if it was a metaphor and what you said about corruption in commercial courts, that it was a very high bribe. Is that a metaphor? If so, I would ask you, for this assembly and for many employees in trade courts, judges and professional associates, that you are no longer engaged in such metaphors. All these people have children, and friends, and relatives, and believe that when you say something like that from this pay phone to these people, it can have very serious consequences. The proposed amendment, instead of this solution that you have made – that the registrar appoints the Agency's board of directors with the previous consent of the Government, the SRS offers a solution that the Court of Justice determines for a period of four years, with the same person being re-determined as the Registrar Judge. What does a solution like this get? First of all, the registrar, if he is chosen by this system that you have proposed, gentlemen, will not be independent of anyone. He will be an official elected by the government for an extremely short period of four years. There's a possibility he'll be relieved before that deadline. I would remind you that this face should be doing the work that the judge has been doing so far. I'll also remind you of a number of problems with enrollment in the register of individual companies. Remember, gentlemen, how much an affair has taken place around registering the company "Difens Road" in the register of economic operators, and imagine how and whether the registrar will be able to resist a number of pressures. If this solution is voted on, you will no longer need a bribe. So these people who do this job will be in such fear -- whether they'll be scattered after four years, or before that, that probably when your best men come to tell them -- wipe out this company, the higher bribe won't even be necessary. As for a more favourable economic environment, to create the most important thing is that there is legal certainty. The legal certainty of this solution will not exist. What kind of legal certainty can we talk about if companies are enrolling in high school graduates? Maybe you'll pick those faces ad hoc, and then after 15 days, when they do the dirty work, you'll take them off. There's absolutely no guarantee this isn't going to happen. Also, do not say that the SRS is a party to retain the existing situation. All the MPs of the SRS, who went out to discuss this issue, in a very clear way, said that we accept what is good. It's true -- it needs to be speeded up, it needs to be more efficient, but, gentlemen, it's not true that this job shouldn't continue to be done by judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3445	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from the People's MP, Vucicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already said once that we want to settle this law and make this better. Of course, we want companies to open up in the future, to do nothing, and to make Serbia look completely different. What bothers me and what hits me as a man is that the MPs of the SRS come out and say we're defending the law just because someone took the money. And there is this inaccuracy towards us and, of course, towards the Serbian people. To all those who observe this congregation today. Then I'd have as many rights, although I don't think so, to say that you want to keep the status quo because you took the same money. But it doesn't lead to anything. We simply need to find a reasonable measure in this Parliament, that everything that is good and that will improve the law, and your amendment, to accept, but also you understand that the simple status quo cannot exist anymore and that Serbia must change from the ground, and it is changing by system law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3447	Thank you. The right to reply has an authorised representative, Mr Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3448	We've probably been making mistakes so far, we've usually tied money to one part of your coalition, but I can see that there are several parts of this coalition that are interested in money. Of course, if the wrong man recognized himself or the wrong political group, I don't know. It is likely that the party's leadership will assess voters as well. But I'm really not guilty of someone not being present in the O.R. at the beginning of the discussion, when Minister Bubalo said very precisely here that the G17 Institute suggested that he did an analysis. Well, you see for yourself, on the last page, the same explanation for both proposals for the law, where it says how many millions of crowns; it says, that is, the minister explained very precisely - that it is about a million and a half euros; that it is a donation. So I explained to you this morning that it's not a donation, it's a sponsorship, so whoever receives sponsorship, if it's a female, you know. It's clear to you, I see, Mr. Bubalo. I even pointed out the fact that no vice president has come to defend the law, but a minister has been sent who has nothing to do with the enrolment, but has to do with donations. So the money's in the game. And, as one of the MPs said, the G17 plus - when the money is offered they should be taken. So that's that logic. Now, since we know who concluded all the contracts on this international economic co-operation, about assistance, and we know that 35% of the planned funds for consulting services provided by foreign partners, that's money laundering, money deoba. That's what the DSS criticised last year. It's also a party or political group that no longer exists, and she once proposed a law like this, she realized in time, so she made a reverse and she fenced herself, at least in one part of that parliamentary group, from a bill like this. Don't be angry if we don't applaud what someone is, maybe not even in this room, but somewhere a little lower, down there, took some money and shared with someone from abroad, to convince us that Ireland's practice is far more advanced than Germany. You know, you've messed up a little value system. Don't find anything that's good, nice. If there's something wrong with the existing system, let's fix it, but let's give that system a chance to live. To live up to the principles you suggested. There, we support your principles. We support everything, to be in office, to train trade courts and to work better, but don't destroy anything without making anything in the meantime, but just taking money.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3449	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 10 and 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger, Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3450	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the registration of economic operators to stand above article 10 -- a registrar rather than a registrar. I believe that registration of economic courts should be carried out by trade courts, i.e. Judges of trade courts, as professional and qualified for these matters. The introduction of the registrator is totally unnecessary and expensive, as its introduction requires significant material resources. So you re-introduce agencies that will cost this country and these troubled citizens. I suggested that Article 10 of the proposed law be complemented by a new position, which would allow the Minister of Justice to bring closer instructions on keeping the register, to prescribe the form and content of registration forms, and to ensure their availability on the Internet site. This solution of mine is rational and is in line with all the amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, does not require additional material resources, and is in line with positive legal regulations. So I urge you to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3451	Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3452	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 10, which was submitted by a distinguished colleague Mr. Bozidar Koprivica, on behalf of the SRS, logically follows everything we have explained to you in the last hour, when we have defended our views on a completely different concept under this law. Now we need to change Article 10 of the law. We are changing the title and instead - the powers and obligations of the registrar, we suggest standing - the powers and obligations of the registrar's judge. Those powers should be defined through a smaller number of points than the registrar has given the proposer of this text of the law. We have nothing to do with it and it should be the work of a responsible registries judge, which is to take care of the legality, systematic and up-to-date management of the register. So, to allow the judge to do so, but before that both materially and technically and all other means are advanced, that is to say, to give better conditions so that the job can work on an up-to-date basis. If he were to carry out the registration procedure, issue certificates of a filed registration application and make decisions on the registration application, we have nothing against it and indeed one responsible judge should do so. To ensure that the register and the issuing of certified copies of the register and copies of documents on the basis of which the registration was made, and that is also his obligation. So far, this has been done according to the positive legal rules of these four laws that we have mentioned these days and under this one regulation. In order to ensure translation of documentation from written form into electronic form registers, of course it is necessary in today's era of computing and in technical and technological progress, we have no objection. In order to ensure the preservation and archiving of documents in writing and electronic documentation, as well as to take other actions necessary for the smooth and proper functioning of the register in accordance with the law; this is also necessary in order to have an orderly and up-to-date record of the business registers. Now I'm telling you that we want it all, and we have nothing against it, but that it's not the registrator, it's the registrator, which we're proposing as a better and more rational solution. And MPs of one part of this climate coalition in favour of this law that is absolutely unacceptable to us are criticising SRS MPs for having such applicable solutions, which should not cost any additional funding from the budget or with some new donation, so that someone, as Mr Krasic said, spends money. And it's not demagogy, but it's really throwing dust in the eyes of Serbian citizens to actually implement some reform and economic moves in our country. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, quite different. There has been a new, nod and has indeed proved itself truly after nearly three months of incompetent coalition and ministers to face burning problems in our country. It is not a problem for the SRS alone, it is a problem for the people, that is, all citizens of Serbia who are having a hard time living today. To be told, by an authorised representative, we could hear this, the MPs of the SRS, that they want isolation, that they want to interfere only in Serbia and that this is said by our presidential candidate, not only is it not true, but one nonsense and above all is a lie, and we know that, in addition to the other, for one reasonable explanation of the legislative proposals, this assembly speaker should serve the MPs chosen to speak only the truth. If that were not the case, I will also tell you through the fact that the future president of Serbia, and we believe that this will be the will of the people, Mr Nikolic, left this morning for a three-day visit to Russia and Moscow. I'll tell you, sir, and you probably don't know that either, because I don't believe that one day you spent in the economy, that you followed the economic flows. Although the minister did come from that mile, but you are saying that we are conducting some isolationist policy in the context of the presidential campaign of candidates, who went to the Russian Federation to remind them too, and in particular Serbian citizens are constantly reminded of this incompetent government, that since 1998 we have signed an agreement with the Russian Federation on free trade. What do we take there, when Kostunica's policy is both Dinkic and Labus so that we import four dinars from Slovenians, and we export for one, we have an external trade deficit of 4.5 billion euros, and so from year to year you continue the same thing the DOS government did. Mr Nikolic and the Serbian radicals from this pay phone can only, what they do from the heart and the pure cheek, tell Serbian citizens that they will lead real and only real politics, realistic and possible. We will never lie, nor deceive the people, especially the people who are jobless and the people you're trying to tell this law that we need technical and technological progress, which we agree with. Make it possible for people to have something to eat, to feed their children, to have jobs, and then come with such legal projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3453	Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3454	I'll try not to get into the matter of the next agenda, not to talk much more about the agency, but I have to touch it a little bit, when it comes to Article 10. If you said that the agency is doing entrusted state affairs in one of the members of that law and you wrote that rules concerning public service apply to its work, and if you wrote something in article 8, which could be said in such a picturesque way - it was given to Bekam through Raul, because it runs the agency through the registrar. That's about it. Now I must warn you that what you wrote in Article 10(2), paragraph 1, cannot stand in law. The registrar, who is the natural person who runs the register, cannot determine how to keep the register closer, because you have entrusted the public authority to the agency and not to the registrar. I warn you, and I am surprised that those who prepared the session of the Legislative Committee, and particularly the Secretariat for legislation, did not turn out that this was not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If they are transferred to a public service, they cannot be delegated under someone else, and you say an individual who is a physical person. The individual would not be able to provide timely publication of registered data, as well as technical conditions in the Agency's premises, so that interested persons can make an insight into the internal side of the register. Why do you tie it to a physical face? Since we said that the registrator is not a set of documents in one file, you say that the individual should prescribe the form and content of registration forms and ensure their availability on the website of the register. Now a special addition, this is the supplement that can look like thick fingers, says - provides the availability of a model of type-based founding acts on the website of the register. So, forms, you just need to drop those forms, put on a signature, and you allegedly formed a company. We get to those exotic islands and the fact that a month and a half ago we had the opportunity to hear that one big, strong firm, judging by the work, was registered by electronic means on some St. George island, and she became a serious firm, of course godfather, and she did a gift-mart. And you know that the polling board has been working pretty hard on these current events, and here we've heard a man's confession registering the company. Of the brother-in-law, in time. You know, something like that, I have to tell you, in Serbia it won't go away. It won't go away because there's gonna be a lot of fat fingers. At least 160 deputies, assistant of that registrar. In order for this to look a little like something, and as part of our concept of keeping these transactions at a trade court, with respect to all the changes that are necessary, the change in the actual state of play in the public and the faster and more efficient, and the more economical enrolment and full insight into the status and structure of our business entities, we have proposed an amendment and this first part bears the indication of a trade court, i.e. the registrar's judge. In the second part, we told you something that is in line with the Constitution, that the minister of justice brings closer instructions on the management of the register, prescribes the form and content of the registration forms and provides their availability on the Internet site. We tried to explain to you that everything can be cheaper, simpler and in accordance with the Constitution. We have previously concluded the question that it is not a flaw and a lack of SRS which is called to the Constitution, but above all a virtue, and then whoever receives sponsorship from abroad, and who is female, it would be better to accept these amendments, in order for this law to look like something and be a good law. If you insist on this bill of yours, believe me, we'll love it so much that we'll strip it down, show it to everyone in the country, and make it clear, that they're just hiding behind it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3455	Thank you. Here you are, MP Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 10 submitted by Koprivica Bozidar should be accepted, given that this amendment has been submitted in order to improve the work of economic courts and procedures in registering them. National MP Koprivica Bozidar suggested that the minister regulates closer to keeping a register with his instructions, which does not require any additional material resources. This will not cause some new branches or organisational units to be formed, it will not cause them to be employed in the agency tomorrow by 150 with salaries, of course, higher than in the economy or in the administration and other bodies. The minister of justice is authorised and can, according to the court's rules of procedure, control whether his instructions are being implemented in practice, and move closer to determining and modifying and supplementing, and thus save time and money from the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia. Those who come out here, ladies and gentlemen, say the MPs of the SRS are submitting amendments; yes. They say, they have the same reasoning from the first, second or third members; well, they are. If the SRS considers it necessary to delete the proposed member, in any case, in an explanation and should state that the existing solutions are more advanced and that they should only be upgraded and improved, because in this way it saves time, money is saved. Those who interpret the wrong law and do not know that they interpret the amendments, and the purpose of the amendments, should, in any case, read many books of law, consult with experts and lawyers, who are in this Parliament in all political parties. In such a way as to take part and improve the text of the law, as this way, the MP can contribute to Parliament's work and bring good laws. It doesn't matter, ladies and gentlemen, to pass a hundred laws. Bring three laws, but make them good. Secondly, there are more than half of the members to be left out in this bill, as far fewer members could regulate the Agency's registration and work issue. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have inflation regulations, but we have few good laws. I can assure you that because you're shutting down and changing even the ones that were brought in last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3457	Please, the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know, Mr. Tomic, why they're criticizing that the MPs of the SRS are reporting on the amendment and that they're submitting amendments at all. I think, first of all, that this is the basic meaning of the National Assembly, that what we can fix. Secondly, why do you deny the right of SRS MPs to submit amendments, if the government itself has submitted to this bill a large number of amendments. I remind you, yesterday we heard that the bill was filed by that part of the government that intellectually burns and burns in it. That, gentlemen, speaks more of your coalition partners than of you. As regards the amendments submitted by Parliamentarian Bozidar Koprivica to Article 10 and the title above Article 10, this amendment provides for items 2), 4), 6) and 7) to be deleted, and to add, after Article 1, Article 2 which reads - the minister of justice brings closer instructions on the management of the register, prescribes the form and content of the registration form and provides their availability on the Internet site. This article of the 10th very broad powers has been given to the registrar. So, practically, if, God forbid, this proposal is passed, the registrar will be here, and what our people say, God and beating. Since we have already seen that the registrar is elected by the Government, that the registrar is only a natural person for whom no expert prepares, not that it is not intended for the university, but is not intended to have secondary education, the question is not only what these decisions will be and what form, the form contained, the way in which the register is to be kept, but the question is whether it will be able to make at all. Don't push people into what they can't do. We've had some laws on the agenda so many times that we first told you they couldn't be implemented. Don't make this another one of those laws. This job could have been given to jurisdiction and, for example, The Institute of Statistics, which works extremely well and has excellent experts, which is a state body, has already been elaborated. So if this job, and I mean the very registration and transfer to electronic form, etc., would be entrusted to the Bureau of Statistics, we'd have safer and more quality registers, and much faster registries. I'll remind you, the Bureau of Statistics has, by official duty, registered all economic operators in its records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3460	Member of the 10th, whose title is: "Agreement and obligations of the registrar", the SRS has tabled an amendment. What is fundamental to this member of the law, in order for the registrar to have his powers and obligations, he must be elected. In the previous article, there was talk that it was impossible to choose a registrar, and therefore it cannot draw any rights or obligations. The minister came out here to provide an explanation, however, elegantly skipped the choice of registrars and that the law on the Agency for Business Registers, in Article 8, which regulates the work of the administrative boards, the rights and obligations of the board of directors, did not foresee at all the choice of registrar with the consent of the Serbian government. In Article 8 of the law, the Serbian government only gives consent to the statutes, the annual work plan and the annual financial plan. There is no mention of consent to the registrar's choice. In the same article, where the work carried out by the board of directors is discussed, there are 10 points, and at no point mentioning the choice of registrators, the selection of auditors is mentioned, but the auditor is one thing and the registrator is another. How the selection of registries is going to be done, so the people who are going to make registers in the dispensary units of the agency, you can't see it from this either. The authorisations and obligations of the registrar, which, by the way, will not be able to, on the basis of these two draft laws to be selected, could be reduced to the following: to provide copies in writing, preserve and archive documentation, take other actions, think of those necessary for the smooth and proper functioning of the register, arranges how to keep the register closer, provide timely publication of the registration data, provide insight into the register, issue certified copies of the register and copies of documents, ensure the availability of a model of type-based founding documents on the site, provide translation of documentation etc. All of these powers, as provided for in Article 10 of this Law, could be reduced to a description of jobs and tasks, and this is done by approximately the curator of the museum: he guards, photocopies, wears, brings, conveys, relations. There's nowhere to be seen that the registrator is quantifying anything. There is a fundamental difference between the concept of the SRS and the concept represented by the ruling coalition, in that the registration judge in the trade court has a mere decision, he is not just an official who beats stamps, as you want to present him here, but a man who runs the records, the truth of the documents, and they surrender. Second, the registrar shall carry out a verification of the founding act and shall verify the statutes, whether the founding act for the establishment of a limited liability company is in accordance with the Company Act, whether the founding act of a company or a command company is in accordance with the Company Act, and shall carry out the verification of the statutes, whether the statute is in accordance with the Company Act, which cannot be done by an ordinary clerk. This can't be done by a registrator, but can only be done by a qualified person, has a working experience and has sworn that he can do the job. There's a fundamental and conceptual difference between us and you. You want to turn it into a desk, an agency that doesn't know exactly who the founder is, according to the law to set up an agency. The first member of the law – an agency is established; whoever is the founder, it doesn't matter. The Agency's founding funds... You'll get the word, Mr. Tomic, and you'll explain everything nicely... they are provided from budgets, donations, sponsorships and other legal sources of funding. Nowhere is the ratio of budget funds to donors, sponsors and other sources of funding. One minute, the majority owner of the agency could be someone on the side. Then are they a public enterprise, a public institution or some private agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3461	Replica, please, Mr. Vojkan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3462	I have to point out to the previous speaker, when he asks the question of who founded the agency, sir, the law establishes the agency, the law on the Agency for Business Registers, read the title of the law. When you talk about funds, it is very clear that the initial funds are received from donations, and the other funds that are paid into the account of that agency are from the budget, and if there is extra funds in the account of that agency, it is returned to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and it is very clearly defined in the law itself. So – funds for the establishment of the agency are provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, donations, contributions, sponsorships etc. When we talk about a donation from the Swedish government, we're talking about an initial amount, let's get this straight once. So when you talk about it, we get some money, we get some money. And we could hear it here, and what else can we do to them in return, what, say what it is, define what we need to do to them, what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3463	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's return to the amendment submitted by fellow People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The amendment requires that, in the title above Articles 10 and 10, the "registrator" be replaced in the corresponding downfall by the word "registration judge" and, after Article 1, point 2 is added, "The Minister of Justice brings closer instructions on the management of the register, prescribes the form and content of the registration form and provides their availability on the Internet site". And why is that? You know, everyone who's learned a little bit about the economy knows that bureaucracy, or administration, other than amoeba, is the only thing that's completely but very progressively reproduced. In 2000, DOS-mania pledged to reduce the administration and reduce part of the administration in ministries, but they founded agencies and tied them to those ministries, so they reduced 10 administrative workers, but they attached three agencies to 30 or 40 workers each. So it seemed to be about a decrease. After we've finished with the ministries, since we've set up agencies for all the ministries, or established agencies, since we've hired relatives, friends, close relatives and family, and there's no room there, then we're going to go to courts, so we're going to reduce some of the jurisdiction of the trade court, because as far as I've heard, you're not terminating the trade courts, but that's why you're going to introduce the agencies. Whether they're going to be called agencies or you're going to come up with a more appropriate name, it doesn't matter now, and you're going to bring in the registries, and then the registries will bring in the godfather for the registries, so the children's kumina, and then the uncle will need a lot of registries, because there's a lot of 180 municipalities, a lot of registries and registries. And there's the best man, the best man, the best man, don't forget when you're already hiring the best man. I wonder, if the registrator does all this work so far by the judge of the trade court, what will the judges of the trade courts do? In addition to this part, Mr. Koprivica has requested that the minister of justice delivers closer instructions on keeping a register, prescribes instructions on form and content of registration forms and provides their availability on the Internet site. The registrar is elected by the government. The President of the Court is deploying a trade judge. How independent of the government will be the registrar the government chooses. In doing so, if you say trade judge, then it is understood that he must have a law degree and have a judicial exam. If you say registrar, he can have an eight-year-old school. It's the only condition I heard the other day, and it's very applicable here, it can't have thick fingers that with racing on the computer it can work, knock on those races on the computer. It seems to me that a much bigger problem, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that someone who invented this has sticky fingers. It's not a thick finger problem, it's a sticky problem. I wonder who you are now planting a chair under that rude part of the body, how many there are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3465	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3466	First, Mr Markovicu, nine agencies established by the government of the Republic of Serbia, by a sublegal act, have been abolished. A new agency is being established by law, meaning by the Serbian Parliament's decision, and then the Serbian Parliament can control the agency's work. That's what basic democratic principles explain. It doesn't take a lot of logic, not a lot of brains to figure it out. Secondly, as far as employment is concerned, the ministries and agencies, as far as I'm aware, do not work like they did business space in Zemun during your term, when he had 150 employees, relatives, godfathers, friends and who not everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3467	It is true, Mr. Prophetic, that I was the director of the business space in Zemun, the famous ZIVS. It is true that this business space of 34 employees, when I came and only dealt with the business space, grew, got publishing work, got television production, got 14 cemeterys, got 11 markets, got five local plumbings, and it had to be done by someone. You probably didn't say, you probably forgot to say, I was at Sabre's time in custody. Two-and-a-half months they kept me from influencing witnesses, and it's true that they let me go after that and that 38 of the 72 witnesses, as far as they wrote, none of them charged me. A financial audit that's been through business space four times and now in her last skill, she's found nothing. The difference between me and you, Prophetic, is that I have been in prison for a long list of employees, and many of your coalitions, I would not like it to be you, prisoners for long fingers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3468	Your client responded to the replica. You have no right. Is anyone else answering for the amendment word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3469	Ladies and gentlemen, we Serbian radicals have been accustomed since the former regime to have ministers lecture us here, to teach us political classes, and you see the consequence of that is that from 23, we are now 82, and that these governments and these ministers are no longer where they were. Mr. Bubalo, a minister whose ministry has no jurisdiction over the law that the government has referred to us for consideration and decision-making, except that it is obviously responsible for the spending of these sponsored funds that were received on behalf of the establishment of this agency, has allowed a lot of itself here. Mr. Minister, with what right do you say the MPs steal your time? If you think we're stealing your time, Mr. Minister, please, the door is here and you don't have to sit here as far as we're concerned. Also, Mr. Minister, you can, by example, resign against Dragan Marsicanin. Nothing will make Serbia harder, nor better with you, nor without you, the same way as Serbia's economy and Dragan Marsican, as it is now without Dragan Marsican, does not work, as privatisation with Dragan Marsican today without Dragan Marsicanin takes place under that previous law, or law that is still in force, because you had no will and desire, and no need likely to change it. Therefore, Mr. Minister, the MPs are here for the people. We're talking about the people here. Because of the people who chose us, we are trying to turn the Serbian government on the right track. It's obvious there's nothing to do with that job. So it looks like we're gonna have to do something else. It looks like we're going to have to show the Serbian government the way they're supposed to go, or we won't wait for you to resign. You'll all have to answer what you've done here. Here's a hundred days closer. You waited, you said you needed 100 days. What did you do in those 100 days other than take those donations you're boasting about here? We, Mr. Minister and ladies and gentlemen, Serbian radicals, are not here to help the Serbian government and we do not want to help the Serbian government. We are here to criticise the Serbian government and ask that the Serbian government leave if it does not work well for Serbian citizens. The government of Vojislav Kostunica has yet to do anything for the benefit of Serbian citizens. This law, which today and these days on the agenda, would be better to regulate the way and create conditions for citizens, who want to open small and medium-sized enterprises, to get favourable loans from the state so they can actually register their small and medium-sized enterprises. Believe me, they don't care whether they register in this agency of yours or at a commercial, or trade court, as they've done so far. That's not your problem. Your problem is those 1.5m euros and this is obviously the work of this government, as well as those of the former regime government. My colleagues here were talking about some kind of surplus. They say the initial funds for the establishment of these agencies are made out of donations. The other funds, of course, will be from the budget. Then here a colleague tells us a fairy tale that the extra funds will return to the budget. When it was and when it would be, especially in the government of Vojislav Kostunica. As regards the amendment to Article 10, our colleague Bozidar Koprivica submitted this amendment to follow the idea of the SRS on the management of the register of commercial entities and therefore proposed, among other things, the addition of attitude 2, which requires the minister of justice to bring closer instructions on the management of the register, to prescribe and contain registration forms and ensure their availability on the Internet website. This is for colleagues who said that we Serbian radicals don't know what a computer is or what the Internet is. You see, we know, but unlike you, we know that we are talking unlike the one who put this remark, we are not turning three sentences for 20 minutes, but each of us has a new story, a new argument, to convince you that our amendments are constitutional, legal, that our amendments mean savings, a better organisation and assistance to the citizens of Serbia, help those who want to register their businesses. Unlike you who, as I said, have done nothing yet to help the citizens of Serbia. Of course, Serbian citizens know that and will say what they think of your government on June 13th -- realistically.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3470	Here you are, the proposal's representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3471	Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, for these two laws, it is indeed the greatest handicap that comes during the election campaign. It is obvious that this pay phone is used, to the greatest extent, for a free election campaign, but what do we do, that's how the Rules of Procedure was done, etc. I wouldn't have answered if my personal name and presence hadn't been mentioned here. I tried to explain my presence yesterday, and the first day is primarily my personal position, and the government's decision to respect this home as much as possible. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not want to rule the Assembly, wants to be in office of the Assembly and therefore I keep sitting and trying to contribute, as most of those MPs with good intentions, to bring these laws to benefit our people. As far as business and economic issues are concerned, we inherited the economy. The economy has failed for 15-20 years, and we know these periods, and some mind people say that how long it took to fail, it takes a lot more to recover. Indeed, someone who ruined this whole thing is very difficult, with great effort, with all their knowledge, to bring about recovery very quickly. But I'm a big optimist. What has been done and what should be known to have been done by this government – and it will be seen in the end, it is always the choices that show and I share my opinion with the Radical Party, there will be choices, we will see these results – that is what I fear the least, as well as this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3472	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3473	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have all come to the National Assembly by the will of the citizens. Serbian radicals with the greatest will of citizens... (President: Which member? ) Article 100, Mr Mihailovic, who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly, and you know it well, because although you have taken one break, you have witnessed events and the establishment of standards of conduct in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for 13 years. Through everything our people and our society went through, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had different calls, different parliamentary groups were sitting in it, the SRS is now, as in 1997, the most present, in the largest number of MPs here, but it has never happened to us, even during the previous arrogant and defeated Dossov regime, that the minister speaks to the MPs in this way. Mr. Minister, first of all, you should appreciate our patience, our attention, our endurance, our argument. And especially the fact that we've accepted the government's argument, which is completely jumbled and confused, that you're here to represent the draft minister instead of the resignation minister, and I'd say candidate in resignation, Dragan Marsicanin. As we have accepted you as such, because this is not your jurisdiction at all, be so cultural, so much parliamentary and so responsible that you treat the MPs with respect, and especially the MPs of the SRS, who have shown, their extremely constructive and democratic appearance, when it comes to the proposal of this law, as many times before, that they only wish well for the citizens of Serbia. If you're the minister who came from the economy to call someone, and as you've been putting yourself together for two months, you know it best, and where you're from, who pulled you out of the sleeves, I don't want to get into it, but if you've come to the government of the Republic of Serbia and you've been entrusted with one resistor, that's economic relations, and by the way, we don't need that ministry at all, I mean, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that's our principled position, if you already have a ministry and if you don't already work to improve Serbia's economic relations, and you know that, by the assessment of those who are following you, of 156 countries, in relation to co-operation, and particularly economically, with countries in the external trade sense, in terms of capital flow, we are in 143. Better deal with it, Minister, than keep your lessons to the MPs, who can teach you and how to learn about democratic standards of conduct, about what the National Assembly is and, above all, keep in mind, when you enter this door, that you account for the MPs and that we have a control function over you and that we can always ask for your shift, as well as for all governments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3474	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jojic. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Rules of Procedure of Rule 99 has been injured: "The speaker can only speak about the issue on the agenda." The minister is not authorized to come here and laugh, to throw. Secondly, he is not invited here to give a political speech, he is not here today to report on the government's work, or to propagate the government here, its work and its successes. The minister is here to follow the bill, answer parliamentary questions, not make any political speeches here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3476	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3477	Dear Chairman, Vice-President, Article 221: "Every MP has the right to ask the president for an explanation that can help him in his work." I'm asking you to explain to me where I can buy paper towels, because I've been made by my friends in the SRS and I can't follow the exhibit. Comrades of the Radicals, what Mr. Vukic said in your presentation is that your mandatory literature is Mr. Vojislav Seselj's book. I assume you've also studied Mr. Seselj's doctoral dissertation. These are political aspects of militarism and fascism, with a Marxist view, etc. All those who say you're fascists are wrong. Fascists are real loud, you're not real; fascists are rude, you're not real; fascists are arrogant, you're not real. You take care of an ordinary citizen, you take care of whether an ordinary citizen has anything to wear, whether an ordinary man has anything to eat, whether a common man hangs out with, who a common man hangs out with, whether an ordinary man thinks, what an ordinary man thinks, whether a common man thinks well, and thinks well if he thinks as a Serbian radical. It's national socialism - Nazism, translated. You're not fascists, really. Ambassador, please choose your words. I'm warning you, according to the Rules of Procedure. ) And despite what you have to do with the literature, and these are the works of Mr Vojislav Seselj, all these exhibits of yours, and you said that you were proud that each of the representatives of the SRS has something new to say, so you get out 17... (Glass - 19), meaning 19, to explain the amendment that Mr. Koprivica submitted, your presentations, me, so realistically, remind me of one advert for the juices that ends with those "... Noises, noises, noises... ". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3478	Thank you. Before Mr Krasic, who wants a replica, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word. The Republic will then be given an authorized representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3479	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, political teaching and what the SRS is, one of the greatest...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3480	Excuse me, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3481	Article 1, Mr. Markovic, I appeal to Article 1. Rules of Procedure, which are - the rights and obligations of MPs in the context of this predecessor's exposure. So, political teaching on what the SRS is, what is one of the greatest Serbian heroes, Professor Vojislav Seselj, did for the Serbian state and the Serbian people, what he wrote, whom he could, and the minds of people, certainly, sincere Serbian patriots, to teach, you will hear from the deputy head of the SRS Group of Mr Vukic, who will tell you more about it. As a representative of our parliamentary group, or representative of one of the three ladies present here, I will tell you, MP, whom we do not know what you are called or what your last name is, because you represent nothing in this assembly, that your obligation is to come decently dressed in the assembly. It implies- in a conventional sense, that at least you have a neat suit and tie when you first go out. You haven't said anything about any legal proposal, and you're speaking to the worst possible expressions about SRS MPs. And you, Madam Chairman, because it's from this third bench so obvious, I want you to tell the MPs that it's not even allowed in the break, which is from 14.00 to 15.00 hours, that alcohol is used in so many quantities, but to do so, if it will, after 18.00 hours, and not to give such people, in such a state, to say the worst possible and to get both me and my colleagues Vereca Radeti.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3482	Do you want a replica of her exposure? (He speaks to the Messenger Wolf. ) I'm sorry, Mr Krasic, as an authorised representative, has already signed up for the replica of the MP, and so will you, is that right. The authorised representative from your parliamentary group for this point is Mr Krasic and has already reported. It's all right (receives to MP Vukic), and you'll get the word. You have no reason... So we respect the order of reporting. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. At the same time, as chairman, I am obliged to inform the Rules of Procedure that there is no break between 14:00 and 15.00 hours, but there is a break of one hour, when the chairman is determined, from 10.00 to 1800 hours. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3483	Well, President, I'll use this time for a replica. I just want to warn you, you haven't noticed again, due to the handover of the chair with your predecessor, that a moment ago this MP came out and called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and to Article 221 or 211, it doesn't matter, and defined it as his right to receive a notice from you. In order to explain this violation of the Rules of Procedure, the MP presented some of the things that we have today concluded that no one stands in those positions. No one has warned him, no one has turned his attention to him that before entering this building he must learn that there are MPs in this room, that he should treat everyone culturally, with respect, because that is how he treats the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That everyone in this hall is obliged to leave personal frustrations outside, to have personal emotions, preferences and other things that are not exactly decent to the MP, to leave the family with it to fight, if it is possible for the family to cure it, but no one has the right to burden both the MPs and the public of Serbia. A team these days, when things happen with our posters, where the one experiencing over the poster shows his impotence, both human and political, and in part proves that it is not like a multiparty system, we have a situation where MPs and words come out here, too, manifest their absence of tolerance and the possibility of being similar to a multiparty system. I ask that in the day of the vote, the National Assembly be made clear whether the president of the National Assembly has committed an injury to the Rules of Procedure, because he did not warn the MP in time when he spoke some words, all of whom are disgusted in Serbia. Once upon a time, for all time, let me tell you -- there has never been a fascism in Serbia or ever will be a fascism. Those who consider something else do not belong in the National Assembly, for they cannot win the people's trust. That's what you need to know. If you're talking about some tolerance, a multiparty system, then fit in with your behavior and your political action. Remember that. So, I'm asking that in the voting day the Assembly be made aware of what I have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3484	Thank you. Just to clarify, Mr. Krasic, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to understand what to get into the record, since I wasn't at the beginning, when the MP came forward, and I warned the MP when he first used an offensive term, so whether you're asking him to be the chairman or president. Both of you? Yeah. I thank you. I'm asking you to keep that in mind. On the occasion of the amendment, Mr. Wolfie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll just point you to something you've done, Mr. Markovic. You gave me your timely warning because, in response to similar remarks to Mr Dinkic, I made a comparison between the Monalysis – Hitler; it doesn't matter. A moment ago, you gave no warning to the gentleman of the regime, from the party regime, who came out for this pay phone, who said the same thing, called us... I don't know, we're running a national socialism policy, or I don't know what, which is something that's the same, so I'm surprised you didn't give him a warning, and I did. So much for your justice and equal treatment of the Members of the People. But now I hope you won't give me a warning either, because if he thought he was going to lose his answer, he was wrong. So, we've been listening to all kinds of lies, nonsense and fiction since October 5th. We've been listening to incredible lies. We've heard the worst possible things about our political party, about ourselves, about our families. You've done a lot of things. At that time, you were grumbling about photos and videos of you walking around, slapping people in the streets, doing whatever you want, because you're freeing Serbia of it. Well, the time for slapping is over, because we won't even let you touch us, let alone slap us. Be assured of that. Secondly, Serbia is poor if it should be a new Serbia. And our Serbia is beautiful, good and much better than some who represent today's regime, and come out for this pay phone to talk nonsense, would like it to be performances. You say you miss the wipes, just to make you cry. Well, you should cry. You should weep over all that you promised the people, and you did nothing. You need to cry over everything you've taken from Serbian citizens, and you've been playing fair all along. You can tell us anyway, and you like it or you don't like our ideology. But we say to your face -- you're just thieves and nothing else, and nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3486	People's MP, first subject. Please stick to the subject, and secondly, I warn you, as well as the previous speakers, that you do not use offensive expressions towards the People's Messengers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3487	I didn't use an offensive expression, but I said the fact, and I said it much less than what the predecessor said, which was false. If you need a handkerchief, and it's polite to take it with you, to have it in your inside pocket or in your pants pocket, anyway, that's how decent people do it. If you don't have it, go out and buy it at the movies. If it's not in the theater, come to my office, I'll give it to you, I've got more than I should, and it would be polite to deal with. As for your tears, don't cry, cry over your destiny, because you'll never get any votes in Serbia again. Cry over the fate of your political party. As for fascism and national socialism, we're not going to fall into that kind of danger that you're trying to impose, to answer in the same way. We won't do it, and what you're doing, it's your picture and opportunity. It is fascism, perhaps its worst form, national socialism, but don't be afraid of it, don't brag about it, and the next time, before you go out to tell your colleagues, MPs in this National Assembly, read something first, read a book, and on the other hand think that whenever you say something like that, you say it for 1,200,000 Serbian citizens, and it'll be in these elections, you'll see, and two million, if not in the first, they'll be in the second election round. Two million people you called fascists or national socialists. You think about who in that case are sincere Democrats, who are they to manage this congregation in a normal way and to talk about the amendments in a normal way and who isn't. It seems to me that it speaks much, much more of you than any of the Serbian radicals. As for the wipes, once again, please report immediately, you can and may keep it, don't worry, you will get from every Serbian radical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3488	It's really getting boring. I understand that people forget something they did a few days ago, but that they think that citizens are forgetting something that happened a few minutes ago. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, I first warned the MP, so since he did not repeat insulting expressions, I did not have time to warn him, as you know. Of course, you have no reason to deceive the public, I haven't given you any notice about any Hitler or the Monalize. I wasn't at that session at all. I read about it in the paper. Emilia Krstic was the chairman, this is what she looks like. You assured us a few days ago that I can't help you that you don't distinguish older men from young women. I can't really help you, but it can't stop me from doing whatever the MP is about, whether the ruling coalition, whether opposition, every time I consistently and literally apply the Rules of Procedure. I'm not asking for any assessment of justice. That's my job. There's no justice for a man to do his job. Most MPs in this assembly, whether they belong to the position or to the opposition, are doing their job and it is mine to help them and it belongs to them, as a obligation, to anyone who presides this assembly, whether as president or vice president. Please continue the political debates, but there is no reason to present information that is incorrect, which was checked a few minutes ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3489	This was according to the Rules of Procedure, and you said by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3490	No, I said replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3491	And you said according to the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3492	It was a replica. It's announced as a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3493	Mr. Markovic, you said according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3494	I said replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3495	Just a minute. We need to make it clear if it's about the replica. If it's a replica, then there'd be a double. If you're answering the Rules of Procedure, then that's different, but tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3496	He made it perfectly clear that he had reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3497	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3498	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't understand this kind of wit, but perhaps Mr. Markovic understood what he was going to say. I doubt the others did. I don't want to talk about whether I was told by a Martian, Mr Markovic or Mrs Krstic. Everyone gave me a warning. I can't quite remember who gave me a warning in which case, and it'll go on probably. I don't mind that, you have the right to do that. I just pointed out the fact that you didn't interrupt the man. You should have stopped the man right away, because everyone knew he was in a drinking state. It's clear to you and you've seen it. I ask the messengers not to earn, from any benches to come. Please make it future...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3499	Mr. Wolfie, you're right. I ask that you do not plead offensively to the MP who spoke before that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3500	Mr. Markovic, please don't let that happen. We have the right to all be in an alcoholic state, but outside the congregation building. So we can be that and that's not the problem. When someone celebrates something, when someone does something, etc. This cannot be allowed, Mr. Markovic. You saw this right away, and then they went to the worst possible insults at the expense of those who are the best in Serbia, and they are the best because they have the highest confidence of Serbian citizens, Mr Markovic. As for the difference between you, I know that we in the SRS today have one thing to solve, and that is why we act like it, even though we try and try, and we do everything in our power, and we boast at the fact that when you talk about campaigns and what Seselj or Nikolic is doing, etc., our presidential candidate has not mentioned any opponent, not indirectly, not by name or last name, since the start of the campaign. I guess he'll make it to the end of the campaign with that and that decision. Let me tell you something, to every nonsense of yours, to every insult you make to the MPs of the SRS, we will react fiercely, because you refer it to the citizens of Serbia, because you refer it to the largest number of Serbian citizens, and it is our task and we will fight that both you and your emissaries and wits, when they don't belong to them, and everyone else in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who are either with you, or they will soon be with you, which is totally no matter to us, so all of them, we win and show that in Serbia can truly be democracy to rule. And when you are a minority, you will see that no one will call you fascists, no Nazis, none like these, because you were voted by honest and honorable Serbian citizens, who thought that you would lead them to a better tomorrow, that you would lead Serbia to its benefit and to its well-being. That's the only thing they did wrong. But those who voted for us, as much as you didn't like it, are the honorable, honest citizens of Serbia who want good to this people and good to all the citizens of this country. If you can't understand it, then there's a problem in you, and then very soon, in a few weeks, you'll face it, and in a few weeks you'll get a rating, a democratic assessment of the people, who's good and who's bad, who's a Democrats who's not, and then you'll see... (President: The watch is good. Three minutes and 55 seconds. Finish it. )......................................................................................................... That whoever's a Democrats has nothing to do with the name of his political party, but with what he's doing. And you'll see, the best works, the real best for Serbia, the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3501	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Veroljub Stevanovic, representative of the SP-NS parliamentary group. Here you go. Is it a replica or an amendment? Replica. A group of MPs has been mentioned, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3502	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you see what it's like to find yourself in a position to have someone tell you something that doesn't suit you, gentlemen radicals. Then you gobble, as the people would say, react as you react, and forget what you say to others from this booth. I could say, say, that all of us, when we imagine the sheriff going into the salon at some point, and whenever we see Wolfie come in here, I imagine it, but I'm not going to say it, because I'm decent. Like, now, we're scared, now we're gonna hear something terrible. Mr. Vukicu, the consequences of New Serbia's work are seen in Cačka. The consequences of SRS' work in three and a few years are seen by the authorities at every turn. It's a lot of graves of young people in Serbia, it's a situation in Kosovo, it's ruined buildings, factories, a ruined economy. That's what you say it's a national interest. We say it's not. You think everyone got amnesia, so we don't know who the minister was. Well done, Mr. Krasic, coming out here, but let's not forget he was a minister back then. And you, Mr. Vukic, I understand that you've been practicing here in Parliament for 10 years and that you've had a job here and a little something in the federal government, but it's your turn to realize that some other people have been doing some serious work in their lives, and that they're professional, and that you don't have to show up everywhere, you show up, even though this here in the Assembly was your only job. We'll talk about it later, when there's a chance. Understand, therefore, gentlemen of the Radicals, it is not good to insult and that this time you have heard something that is not appropriate to hear, but that you have done so many times worse than that messenger who was just behind this speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3503	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised you didn't warn the predecessor. I don't mind if someone thinks I'm a sheriff. I don't mean to be, I've never done this job, but it's gonna take a good sheriff to arrest all the thieves when you lose power, and there's a lot of them in your ranks. Don't worry about it. As far as this other guy is concerned, about who did what and how he did it. We can be proud of one thing: we were two years old and some minority partner in the government, you were wrong in years. You were wrong about the federal government, too. It doesn't matter. At the time, when you were talking about Kosovo and Metohija, your president was the vice president of the federal government at the time when the houses were burned down. At the time, he had one story and said he was defending Serbia from Albanian terrorism, and today he has a story because he is defending Albanians from the Serbian state's terrorism. He forgot what he was saying then or some told him that story had to change. In this we differ, which we still think was Albanian terrorism, not Serbian terrorism, and you came from Albanian terrorism to Serbian terrorism. It is the differentiation of the specifics between you and us, and we will never agree on that. As for the graves, whom you accuse, whom you accuse of graves. Those people who went to defend their people? We weren't the authorities at that time, so you had your own units going west of Drina and Danube. Are you ashamed of these people now? Unlike you, and that's the difference between you and us, we're proud of our people, because they were the bravest part of our people, the most honorable part of our people, and all their faith. You have to say that someone committed a war crime, say, go after him. For four years, we have been driven by a former regime for all things, for which they have come to mind; and what, nothing. What will you then say? What will you then do, then come out immediately and speak? Listen, you guys are gonna talk later, so now somebody needs to be scared in the O.R. of what you're gonna say. You who have stolen and robbed everything you have arrived in Serbia, everything you have reached. See what you can't reach up to 2% in Belgrade...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3505	Mr. Wolfie, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3506	... Up to 2%, all jump with a pole to jump, you can't reach. You can't reach it because the citizens of Serbia know it and you're free to go out here. You say you're making out because someone tells you you're fascists or something. Probably in yours, and in my family, your fascists killed... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... almost everything in World War II. You're going to talk to me like this now or you're going to talk to fascists like that. You or anyone else, because we're better than you and because we have more votes. It's a good policy, maybe it's the best in the world. However, there is little one who understands, and very few Serbian citizens support it. Don't get out of your mind that we have 82, and you're 22. So much for democracy, so much for the citizens of Serbia, and for yours and our politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3507	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3508	According to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 97, 99 and 100. It's all hurt. It is true, gentlemen, that you've been a minority partner for two years, three, right, but it is true that in those three years, as you say, you destroyed Serbia as if you were 30 years old. We, from New Serbia, weren't in power, and we had no reason and we weren't that kind of people to be thieves. In those three years, gentlemen of the Radicals, you could have improved the economy, you could have introduced robotics into the economy, and unfortunately, you didn't do it, but you're ahead of the world, you've introduced robotics into the Serbian parliament. You're acting like robots here. Someone's programming you, winking at you, and they're showing you, and you're pulling out the card. On the other hand, you're out of the O.R. Someone is programming you, and then Mr. Vukic, who hasn't been here all day, programmed to insult the dignity of this assembly, insult the MPs and, of course, demean the Serbian people. Gentlemen, we have listened here from the Serbian radicals that they are the greatest, strongest, most beautiful and wisest. You're not the greatest, you're not the strongest, you're not the most beautiful, you're not the smartest. You have 82 MPs and we respect that, and we showed it at the very beginning when we formed the Assembly, you are represented in all committees by the same number of your MPs. Gentlemen, you have to understand, you did not get power, you had no authority to form power. The government in Serbia won no one, Serbian citizens voted as they voted. The government in Serbia has received one who has the authority to form the majority. So, gentlemen of the radicals, don't be programmed people, be MPs, not robotics in the Serbian congregation. Do not insult the dignity and these congregations, and all of us MPs, and do not think that only you know how to go out for this pay phone to say something, that only you can give offensive expressions without us being able to repay it to you. The fact that we are better educated than you is that we are better educated than you, and we are not going to use the terms that you use, that is, of course, the matter of our dignity. If you feel that by insulting this Parliament and all MPs, you will win power in Serbia, you are wrong. I think the people in this election will still know how to assess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3509	Dear People's MPs, please establish a quorum, to see if we can continue our work. Since 91 MPs have been found present, we can continue our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3510	I'm advertising Article 97(2). The Rules of Procedure, which says, among other things, if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group or party, the right to report to the Rules of Procedure has the head of the parliamentary group. So, gentlemen of the radicals, since you've been very valuable in your words, I'm reporting for the insults you've given us. You're not only masters of demagogy, you're also real masters of thesis replacement. When I was talking about graves, I was thinking about all those poor people who died because of the bad policy you've been taking, and you've obviously interpreted it differently. You know very well that politics is a matter of possibility. You've chosen the worst of opportunities, probably all of which were bad, and that's why in this country, so many graves. That is, therefore, that replacement thesis. Of course you did it on purpose, and I'm telling you right now. How about, Mr. Wolfie, if you're in a position to have 100,000 people against your family and you're absolutely right. You will, of course, be talking to those people for your family to avoid tragedy. So for one power is the people of the family. That's what I'm talking about. I won't teach you in your years of training. I'll never tell you you're a thief, you're a fascist, and you've said it countless times from here. I won't tell you about Zemun, I won't mention your sports center, I won't really mention it. That was also said, but I'm not going to say anything ugly, because nothing has been proven. That's what I'm saying on purpose, of course, because that's what you said about Belgrade. Speaking of cities, let me remind you that I've been president of the Kragujevac City Assembly for four years and no single affair has ever existed. The result is 27%, how much my coalition or our coalition won in the September 2000 elections, and you lost a single councilman in Zemun. That's what it's all about. As for the consistency of SPO and Vuk Draskovic's policy, there is no dilemma. There's another one of those. We just said that it is necessary for the international community to have the same arches towards Albanians now, as it did to us when it did what it did to the country of Serbia. (President: Time. Let me remind you of something, Mr. Wolfie. I've known you for over ten years. Even so, you were easy 20 kilos back then. We've called you from a mile like that weight, and now you've got 20 kilos more and don't think 20 kilos more brings the sheriff's title. Second, the thing in the people -- who has no head in the back of his head -- I didn't make it up, but I add it -- what happens when that badge stays at home, where's that in your head?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3511	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's interesting that the main argument of our opponents is how many kilos I've had. I don't know how many pounds I had then, not today. Had a little or had a lot, they're mine. You didn't feed me in any way. I don't think you've spent anything on it, I don't think anyone else is and it doesn't matter if people are fat; here, I'm fat, you're skinny, I don't think that makes me any worse. I think it's much more important who's a thief and who's not. I think it's a lot more than that. That I'm fat, so what now? Big deal whether I'm fat or not. It doesn't matter much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3513	Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3514	They don't have to hang up, they can get whatever they want and whatever they want. They can smile all they want. Soon we'll be smiling. As far as the badge is concerned, our badge is a reflection of our campaign, our ideas, our political ideologies. It bothers you because you don't know how or in any other way to offend someone. You say you don't want to talk about some sports center. What are you talking about? What do you say about Zemun? About how many kilometers of asphalt was made – 62 and at the time of the current government zero. At the time of the government you criticise, which the citizens well know, theatre, maternity center, the Institute of Rheumatology – open. At that time, they took the buckets off the roof in Pinky. When he mentioned something about Mr. Dinkic here, I got a memo from a man of your authority. I think one of the people is very close to your party and in a very correct way, and now it's in the directoral place, he said - we apologize to you, Mr. Vukic, this has nothing to do with Pinky, it's someone I don't know what he was making up. So I'm not ashamed of it and I'm asking you what it is and what are you going to say about Zemun? I want to talk about Zemun, because that's what I most boast about, because that's where we get the most votes, and that's why the people vote for the Serbian Radical Party. We beat you there with the 20-1 vote ratio, not 5:1 or 4:1 as it is average in Serbia, but 20-1. So much for how he ruled and how he did and what he did. You're talking about graves. Change the thesis. Thank you for not raising me. I had a father and a mother. Maybe they're responsible for my fat or what to do. That seems like the biggest problem, but I accept. (President: Time. I accept, I'm pretty fat, now I'm going to get a little fat or I'm pretty thin, so I'm going to lose weight, I don't know what you're going to say, when for what period, it doesn't matter. I have to tell you one thing about consistency in politics. I used to, it was 1991, before reading the books of Vuk Draskovic, a great Serbian writer. (President: Time. ) He was brought up in these parts, taught where Serbian graves were in those parts. I learned a lot about Serbia and the Serbian people, so that when he began to deal with politics, I would learn that everything he wrote was not true, that I would find out that we should actually fight for others and that we should condemn Serbia for defending the hearths of the Serbian people and for defending its Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. That's the difference between you and me. (President: I am warning you of an excessive amount of time. I understand and thank you. The difference between us and you is that, Mr. Stevanovic, you can be the authority with everyone. When we are or are not, you know, and you are the most anti-Social Party of Serbia and these coalition partners, you are in power today, you are ministers and ministerial assistants, you are on boards only because that political party supported you, not because you won a number of votes in the election, not because you are smart, beautiful or thin, or fat, I don't know what you already wanted to say, anyway... (President: Five minutes, Mr. Wolf. )......................................................................................................... but because you were supported by the Socialist Party of Serbia. The difference between you and me is that we don't share citizens. Your MP called us fascists and we answered that. It's a good thing you pulled it off, it's a good thing everyone in this assembly is pulling it back, and never saying it again, and it doesn't cause conflict, not in the congregation, not in the streets. We never said that about you, Mr. Stevanović. (President: Please, you've exceeded 2.5 minutes. I'll be done in ten seconds. What we've always told you about your authority, about what you've been doing at the bar, about what you've been doing on the general plan, on the general level, it's going to stay, but also because of what you're saying to Mr. Stevanović here today, don't worry, June 13th you'll see who's going to smile. It will be Serbia's victory, Serbia's Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3515	Since you're the one who caused the replica, you can do it by the Rules of Procedure. You're the one who caused the replica. You can't get the replica. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3516	Re-replace thesis and re-insulting words Article 100. (President: Please don't throw away. [[Tossing from the O.R.: Which member?]] You can't get me out of balance, you can say whatever you want. So the replacement of thesis is directly here visible. You're talking again about how some thieves, who haven't been proven to be thieves, have been talked about, and you haven't, because you haven't proven to be thieves. So, re-replace thesis. Mr. Vukicu, ask the citizens of Kragujevac what the government looked like for four years, completely blocked by your government of national unity, when the town of Kragujevac was declared occupied by that government. At that time, 68km of asphalt in Kragujevac was done only in the country. Ask the Kragujevci what they think of that authority. Since Miss Jovanovic throws it to me, Miss Jovanovic, whenever I talk about someone else, I would look at myself in the mirror or imagine myself being in the mirror, so, let's say, before I tell Mr Ristivojevic, which you said yesterday, that first there should be some scales, I would think of myself. You have tried countless times to become a councilman in your local community where you were born and were never even close to entering the second round.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3517	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that the regime is showing such anxiety and that they are looking forward, unfortunately, and I respected Mr. Stevanović, the primitive incursions and something that I did not expect from anyone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Your story about how Natasha Jovanovic needs to be looked in the mirror is like the one before – whether someone is fat or thin. Poor story, Mr. Stevanovic. Serbia deserves a much better story, deserves Serbia's future story, what the MPs are going to do, and not whether it's fat or thin, or if the lady is looking in the mirror. Don't talk about who got how many votes, because you were in the coalition with the party that contributed more to it, but not to go into those reasons, you got 11 percent, and we without the coalition and the lady you mentioned the mirror got 30 percent of the vote in these parliamentary elections, so compare 11 and 30, Mr. Stevanović. Mr. Stevanović, there's something that you're right about whether something has been proven or not. That's right. As long as there's no judicial conviction, nothing's been proven. There's no doubt about that. Neither what one, the other, the third, or what the police say, or what they say one way or another, is anything until we have a judicial verdict. That's where you're right. But there's one thing: you're talking about something that hasn't been proven to us. What hasn't been proven to us? Who was that talking about? We've been listening for three or four years from the representatives of the former regime all sorts of things. So, what's up with that? You want to continue with that, Mr. Stevanović. You don't know what to say to me, you don't know what to say. We can blame you for what we know as ordinary citizens. I don't know who kept it a secret, took it, didn't do it. I am not one to pursue witch hunting, nor to persecute you, nor to seek you, so give me, and now I will not know what. There are no men in Belgrade, there isn't, and I don't know about Kragujevac, Miss Jovanovic will talk about it, but I know about Belgrade, that whatever someone wanted, that every day we received parties, that people were coming to say -- aman, people, this is a mystery percentage, and this is a mystery percentage. That was from day to day. (President: Time. There was no difference. Did I prove it in court? No, I'm not, but I'm telling you what every citizen knows. You know that too, Mr. Stevanovic, why don't you go over three percent to Belgrade. You know that's why, even though there's no court ruling. It's just that every day on TV, you're going to be saying that there's no good government in Zemun five years ago... (President: I warn you of time overruns. You're free of all this because the people of Zemun know it. It's not by chance our victory in that town is the most convincing, because these people know and can't be fooled by the media. I invite you to a rational, normal conversation and dialogue. There's no need to come in with so much bile, with so much anxiety. We fear no one, neither you nor everyone else, and we will always answer, but we think that the most important thing is to think about Serbia's future, what it is that we can do for our country, what the country needs right now. (President: 4.15 minutes. I'm done. That you will insult the fat and skinny, someone's mirror or reflection in the mirror, Mr. Stevanović, that, unfortunately, speaks much more about you and more about those who applauded you than about any Serbian radical.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3519	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3520	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 97. It is clear from Mr. Vukic's discussion, both current and previous, that it is an offensive connotation for the SPO-NS parliamentary group, for the following reasons: I really think this assembly speaker should serve, I said that a few days ago, just for what's on the agenda. Then I tried the most honest, well-meaningly, as I really do consider my job here, and as I also consider my colleagues, or gentlemen of the SRS, to try to do here what is best, as you have most often pointed out, for the citizens of Serbia. For Serbian citizens, it is best not to waste time, not to spend money in vain and not to waste every day in vain. It seems to me that, from the above, there is nothing, and yet, gentlemen of the SRS have a very serious problem explaining why they are "Serbian", why they are "radical" and why they are "party". As a professor of history, believe me, I'm not convinced of that for a moment. When it comes to this first prefix of "Serbian", my predecessors spoke of it and, with respect for your intelligence and patience of Serbian citizens, I would not talk about it much. It is said that Serbian national interests are protected, what is it and whose share was in the uglyness of the Serbian people, of course, who and what ministers they were, but also who and what share they had in the conduct of local authorities. I'm not so forgetful, probably because I teach history and my past is an obsession and, of course, my duty. A few days ago, in a very prominent daily newspaper stands – 57 bars of solid material on the lawn in Zemun, 17 thousand illegal objects, the business space "Pinky" paid 100,000 dinars for 296 workers, and at that point, there were 34 workers. I'm just passing on what was written a few days ago. It's not that long ago. What was a little earlier, which goes back in time, that's the second part of the term "radical". They are very well aware of the well-intentioned and informed that the People's Radical Party was formed in 1881 and that there was absolutely nothing to do with what is today called the Serbian Radical Party or the reverse order and reverse logic. As for the "party" and what the party is, and what the party is, I think that was also a word and I wouldn't take much time. Of course, I can't understand why you keep (the chairman - time)... finishing... call on you to take 150 or 160 in the next election, or I don't know 250 seats. Well, by doing that, you're actually coming into one logical contradiction with that policy of yours. You know, with 150 or 160 MPs, what someone said here once -- even Grandma Nast can rule. The ability to exercise power is to find a coalition partner and exercise power in the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3521	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3522	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wanted to stop this. I was hoping the nonsense had come to an end. But then we heard my predecessor, who, reporting according to the Rules of Procedure, said a series of insults, such as from the repertoire in 1991 or 1992. Nothing has changed as far as the SRS charges are concerned, and I don't have that god knows what to comment on. I have no God knows what to comment on or want to call the SRS a radical party at one point, because they used to. I'm just going to remind them of one thing and it says a lot more about them, so we shouldn't do that, because it's what some of the former regimes used to do, and then they put a bag on people's heads. So, those who spoke - the Croatian Radical Party, those who accused Vojislav Seselj, because it was an accusation to them at the time, although the To God's great cosmopolitans, civil-oriented, that he was Croatian, or I don't know what, so they were happiest to say - yeah, you have to go to The Hague for the crimes you committed against the Croats, so make a deal, gentlemen. Make a deal and stop lying. There have been a lot of imaginary accusations, senseless and personal insults at the expense of Serbian radicals, especially at the expense of Vojislav Seselj. There's been enough of that story about what it looks like and who it is, especially when a man is unable to defend himself. In particular, do not do this because your president, not in a Catholic or other church, baptized one, first son, the champion of Vojislav Seselj, but in the Serbian Orthodox Church. And with all that talk and talk, it's not the SRS, it's what it is, it's so pathetic that I don't want to answer you and I don't want to tell you what you deserve. I don't want him to tell you what name you got from the people, not from the Serbian radicals. I won't mention it once. Because it's not like serious people, serious politicians. And I won't tell you that. I call you - the Serbian Renewal Movement, as you are called, as is your name for the political party. That's what we have to do with, or who we have nothing to do with -- I don't know who we're connected to, I don't know who we're not with. We are trying and trying to inherit what is best in Serbian political tradition. Whether we make it or not, I don't know. But I know we have much more trust in the citizens of Serbia in the past 14 years than you have. I know today that difference is incomparable. As far as the facts are concerned, Grandma Nast can rule with 150 or 160 MPs; maybe Grandma Nast can, but I haven't seen her get 150 or 160, and Serbian radicals want to get 150 or 160. As for the coalition partner, who can and can't find him, well, so did those who found you and you who found some. Only difficult for Serbia, from both your and their coalition partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3523	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3524	I apologize to you, but I'm referring to article 97. I'm completely misread. I don't know if it's intentional or by accident, or just not understood, but it's a simple thing. My adjudication to prefix Serbian concerns exactly what I explained -- how and how Serbian interests are defended. Nothing else. It's just that I've alluded to some background of your president, I don't know if he's Catholic or Croat, etc. I didn't say that for a second, and I don't know that. Please, I know I only speak based on facts and how I'm experiencing it. I said I speak for myself. Another thing I'm misread -- I'm an MP on the SPO-New Serbia list, but I'm not a member of the SPS, I'm a member of New Serbia. That's also wrong. And as for the next one, which you were talking about, I really don't know how you explain the phenomenon, every honor, you have 82 MPs, and that's a respectable figure, it's undeniable, but how you explain the phenomenon that there are almost no cities in Serbia where you can name your councilors on the fingers of one hand. That's the point. When you replicate, then I just want you to understand me completely, correctly, like I said, and not to twist, and of course, this isn't the repretoire of the 1990s. Believe me, this is (he's holding a newspaper clip in his hand) from ten days ago from Evening News.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3525	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these pranks and this -- as I'm very smart, so I'm going to tell you again, I didn't exactly want to say, nor do I know what kind of family it is. We don't care who you're related to, but we see you're a bad man.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3527	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3528	Because a good man can't do what you do from this pay phone. He can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3529	Please, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3530	Pray to me, and you didn't pray to him because he was talking about someone's kin, and you're begging me because I told him that he was obviously not a good man after what he did with this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3531	As I recall, he didn't tell anyone he was a bad man.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3532	He said something much worse...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3533	You said you're a bad man, and you're not a good man, but you said you're a bad man.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3534	I didn't say he was a bad man, I said I didn't think he was a good man and I think it's obvious to everyone. But if we don't get into what kind of man you are, you're good for your family, and I won't touch that. Anyway, let me tell you something about that Serbian prefix. Who are you to say who is Serbian and who is not Serbian? Who are you? Are you some kind of judge? Are you a representative of the entire people, and you will tell us. Well, you know that. You know better than four times as many citizens of Serbia, who have given their trust to our party, not to your list. So you'll judge it? You say they screwed up. No, they're not. He knows the people well who he votes for. Now you'll see how well he can assess how and who you rule with. How and how you rule. Well, don't be surprised when you've been counting thousands of Serbian radicals since September. Don't be surprised. Oh, I didn't want to answer for Zemun and 2000. It's not true we don't have any councilmen. (Glasses - two. It's not even two, it's five councilmen and we won in extras. It's not a dispute, but we had 24% of the vote. Because of the electoral system, we didn't get more MPs, not because of the number of votes, as you know. And you're just underestimating it. Keep underestimating. We don't mind that. Come out one more time, say, "Wolf, you're a Croat, or you're a Muslim, or I don't know what." Here, well, whatever you want, you can say. We don't have any kind of problem with that. Serbian citizens will be able to assess that. As for these newspapers you've been showing, that's what all the newspapers have been publishing since the start of this campaign. I'm just waiting for what else they're going to announce, what else they're going to think of. What did you say? You don't even know what you're saying. Neither do those who wrote it. What's that I got for the company? What? What, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, What are you talking about, people? What are you talking about? You don't even know what it's about. You don't even know what to say to the municipal government yourself, because she's never done anything for the citizens of Zemun again. Now, that's your big problem. I'd call you again -- instead of insults, you're in power, no matter whose help and support, it doesn't matter for moral reasons either. It is more important that you do something for Serbia's future and it is much more important than you go out here and try to insult the opposition. Insult as much as you please, do whatever you want, and we will try not to answer you with insults. It is not by chance Tomislav Nikolic in the campaign, he does not act in such a way as not to mention any opponent. We answer to you here, but we try not to reciprocate you with the same measure. We are trying to convince you that you are wrong, but to know what we care about, which we think is best and most important, are the interests of Serbian citizens, and the citizens of Serbia will give you and us what we deserve. And as we deserve, I'm afraid you won't enter this building anymore as an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3535	Replication to the presentation of MP Veroljub Stevanovic. Direct mention, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3536	Mrs. Krstic, not Mr. Stevanović forgetful, he's just a little more nervous. I will answer you calmly, Mr. Stevanovic, without such neurotic gestures, fluttering my hands and mentioning something that is not true. That psychosis where all the members of the failed SPO are present is clear to me. I live in Kragujevac, in Šumadia, where you may have almost been able to trick the Shumadins and the Kragujevcans, but I say up until a few years ago, that you are an alternative and some option that is mentally offered to the Kragujevci and all the citizens of Serbia. You've fallen a lot in the election, you haven't been able to pass the election censorship, you haven't been in this assembly in four years. In 1996 you were as someone who was not on his own, but on the list of the then group "Together", passed as a committee on the list and became your coalition partners the president of the Kragujevac City Assembly. Not the mayor, as you liked to call yourself, but you should have been the first among the equals. In four years you haven't acted like this, you've reversed all the democratic processes in the city. I don't have to talk about your malfeasances and abuses, not even members of the SRS, that's what Radosavljevic and Vlatko Rajkovic told you about, and all those who have been with you in power for four years, and again they beat you in 2000. Mr. Stevanovic, come to your senses, the new time came, on 28 December 2003, and before that on 16 November 2002 in Kragujevac, almost all polling stations were won by Serbian radicals, headed by our President, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Your fellow citizen and deputy president of our party certainly won the votes of both Kragujevcan and all Serbian citizens in 2003 in the presidential elections. In a place where you were born, in the Little Bees, the SRS broke you in the right sense of the word. It was 5:1, that's the number of votes you live in, Mr. Stevanović, and where you throw dust at those workers who are suffering and tell them about some adventure projects for the flag. The SRS broke you 5-1. Mr. Stevanovic, in the June 13th elections for Serbian President, Mr. Nikolic will win both in your Little Bees, and in the Old Workers' Colony, and in my Varyst, and in all Serbia, and in Zemun, and in New Belgrade, and in Piroth, and in Vranj, and in Subotica, and so will be in the local elections. And you can, Mr. Stevanovic, look at yourself as much as you want in the mirror, but you mayor of Kragujevci will never be again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3537	You're the one who caused the replica. You can only contact the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3538	I thought this was the Assembly. It seems to be some kind of arena, but that's what I'm going to tell Miss Jovanovic at the end. It's a good thing the people are watching us. You, Wolfie, a few things. You are proud of the authority you have exercised, only that the people are proud and restitute the thesis. I didn't say anything in any way offensive to you or yours. You are countless times, and now Miss Jovanovic, you have used the words "lie" and "hoist". That's what it's all about, therefore, the obvious replacement of thesis, obviously holding a lecture, obviously a pre-election campaign. But I told you, you're up against a very strong group. There are few of us, yes, it's funny, and you deliberately misread my conversion and comparison of your weight. I just said that you've improved, and I didn't say anything ugly. Natasha Jovanovic said he had to think about his words, that's a little figurative, Mr. Wolf. So when he talks about someone else, let him imagine himself. When she says someone wasn't a councilman, let her know she wasn't a councilman either. Ms. Jovanovic, you are countless times from here, and you know how you went to the City Assembly while you were an MP, when I led those sessions, told terrible things to MPs and representatives of the government. And it doesn't matter. It's called "serb behavior" in Serbian. It doesn't say brains, intelligence, education, but it can't do that. I say what it's called and I'm not going to say anything from my head about it, but I'm going to say from someone else's smart head to you, and that smart man, one of the world's greatest emperors, and all the time, is like he knew there was gonna be an SRS and a person like this, once he said, "A woman beautiful and without reason is a golden cranberry in the loss of a pig."
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3539	National MP Alexander Vucic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3540	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I demand the chairmanship of the National Assembly, the present minister, and I ask the representative of the regime, someone responsible, not to repeat what Mr. Stevanovic, someone who is not foolish, to come out for this pay phone to apologize, because such insults to a lady say, that you mention some pigs, losers, nonsense. I am surprised, Mrs Krstic, that you have not said an automatic exclusion for these words, because such words have never been heard in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. To say that to a lady, Mr. Stevanovic, are terrible words that I would say to you and what you deserve. I ask you, Madam Chairman, to immediately send on behalf of the parliamentary majority an apology to Natasa Jovanovic, asking the present minister to do so immediately. If you don't, the entire SRS parliamentary group will leave parliament, and you stay with explaining to Serbia who you called a pig, who you talked to about loss and who you talked about madness. I think Serbian citizens have had the opportunity to see and finally understand who the past is and what Serbia's future is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3541	It sets a break of ten minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please determine if we have a quorum. Here you go. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Anyone else want a word about the amendment to Article 10? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Gajic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milko Stimac. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Vojkan Tomic withdraws the amendment to Article 61. Member of the 67th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to Article 85 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON THE AGENCY FOR EDUCATION REGISTERS (specificities) You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milka Silajev, Vjerica Radeta, Milovanovic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Goran Cvetanović, Dragan Colić, Veroljub Arsic, Branislav Blažić, Ivan Radić, Zoran Antic, Darko Glisic, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojić, Milan Stevović, Ljubomir Kragović, Zlatan Jovanovic and Branislav Rankić. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on the Agency for Business Registers has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milka Silajev. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? Yeah. Here you are, Minister Predrag Bubalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3543	Dear MPs, I really don't think there's any need for a big story after such a long debate. The discussion of the proposed laws lasted very long, much longer than expected. Most of the discussion was not in the function of the story which took place and the subjects of today's debate – the law on registration of business entities and the establishment of an agency. It had a whole other meaning, and there it was, we were witnesses, a lot of awkwardness and myself personally, which I was here for the first time in the assembly, it was embarrassing to be present, but besides, since I caused nothing to do with it all, I can't say anything else. There is no possibility for some large analyses, for the simple reason that most of the remarks that were made, although many amendments were made, were not in the function of increasing and improving the quality of these regulations, but were on the contrary, they represented the retention of the existing solution. It's just not worth wasting a lot of time on. The basic idea which was intended to be achieved by adopting new laws is the exclusion of measurement, and so far in the registration process of economic operators there was a reason why registers were removed from courts and are intended to be conducted in one place in one register. Also, there may have been principled issues related to the selection of the Agency's body and the registrar himself, but as for the conditions that the registrar needs to meet, they will be provided for by the statute, the act on internal organisation and systemisation, will adopt the board of directors, with the previous consent of the government. So everything is completely under the control of the government and the board of directors appointed by the government. In the end, I want to repeat once again that there was one question about lawyers, but we have made that clear, there is simply no need for any concerns, because the Law on Lawyers does not provide for the registration of lawyers in the register of economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3544	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Violations You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs on the bill: Marko Krstin, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Vojislav Milajić, Nemanja Sarović, Milan Stevović, Milovanovic, Petar Jojić, Gordana Gajic, Natasa Jovanovic, Bozidar Koprivica, Dragan Colić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Sreto Perić and Momir Markovic. National MPs Vojislav Milajić, Nemanja Sarovic, Milan Stevovic, Milovan Radovanovic, Petar Jojic, Gordana Gajic, Natasa Jovanovic, Bozidar Koprivica, Dragan Colić and Dragoljub Stamenkovic pulled the amendments they submitted on 10 May 2004 and MP Marko Krstin's amendment, which he submitted on 5 May 2004. The amendments to be submitted until the opening of the original search will be sent to you during the session. You've received reports from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. SRS – hour and 38 minutes and 24 seconds; DSS – hour and three minutes and 36 seconds; DS – 44 minutes and 24 seconds; G17 plus – 37 minutes and 12 seconds; SPO-NS – 26 minutes and 24 seconds; SPS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group for five minutes, as referred to in Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3545	Dear MPs and MPs, this law has been put on the agenda for several reasons. I'm not talking about those technical arrangements, since we no longer have federal law, and we had to transfer the jurisdiction provided for by federal law to a republican level. In that sense, we technically had to prepare the legal text of the Republic law. A few things were important here. What causes the need for the urgent adoption of this law is, I say, first of all, the transfer of that competence from federal laws to republics, and it is very important matter, such as customs. It is a matter of great value, a large number of subjects that existed and dangers even to become obsolete, which would be a great loss for this country. The second thing that led us to urgently ask for an amendment to this law is that the Constitutional Court assessed as unconstitutional certain provisions regarding the mandate procedure, so we had to comply with those provisions according to the Constitutional Court's orders. What's very important here is that this law hasn't been changed for almost eight years, and because of inflation, the penalties provided for by that law have been reduced to symbolic. In fact, local self-government has imposed much more fines on its rules, so for the most severe violations provided for by this law, less penalties than for the most banal things such as parking, if you miss an hour of 800 dinars, and here the maximum penalty for the most severe violations has been provided for 1,000 dinars. For these reasons, we had to put this law in a procedure of urgency and the only dilemma that remained, I say immediately, is the issue of whether to abolish the sentences of the prison or the judges for violations to rank in the rank of a criminal court, and this is because there is indeed an obligation under the international convention to do so, given that the Convention on Human Rights provides clearly that the sentence of prison can only be pronounced by the court. However, in this situation, we felt that it was not necessary to do so until one of these variants was resolved, or to end the prison sentence or to establish a criminal court, and for that we have enough time, since we put the so-called provision on it. There is still no danger that we will suffer some harmful consequences. When done in detail and decided whether or not we're going to have a mistrial, and I believe we should do so, a team before the department of the administrative court could exist for the offenses, so that it would be the right solution, permanently. I'm saying there's no danger for us right now, given that we've put our reserves on that particular member of the Convention on Human Rights. In addition, a few more newspapers such as the so-called newspaper were introduced. parole. We agreed certain things with an existing transfer to a republican level, and given that there is judicial protection in that area, so we introduced a second-degree procedure within that ministry, given that there is also a judicial protection in this situation and that there is no danger for the citizens. I'm going to point out here in particular that because of these two things, we had to go to an emergency procedure, because it was already annulled by the Constitutional Court and we had to regulate it. I won't keep you longer. There are a few amendments, so I'm going to say something more detailed about them, so with this, I think it's enough to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3546	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Bojan Pajtic, a Democratic Party MP -- Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3547	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for the third time in the course of this session, I warn that we are not in agreement and we cannot support the government's new manners to practically bring all the laws under emergency procedure. The emergency procedure is a procedure that reduces the rights of MPs under the Rules of Procedure, reduces the possibility for MPs to prepare in an adequate way, both for the submission of amendments, i.e. to improve the text of the law and for discussions in principle in this Parliament. The emergency procedure is very decadent for the Rules of Procedure only in cases where human life or health is at risk, if the country's safety is at stake or if the work of organs or organisations is at stake. Therefore, this type of act should be adopted in order to identify federal legislation, i.e. the provisions of the Constitutional Charter, from those rules which put external trade, foreign exchange and other affairs in the jurisdiction of the Republic, but were not in any way an emergency procedure and a matter which could not, therefore, take place on a regular basis, at the next session to come to the agenda. We're simply not time-limited in that sense. It's not just about this law. This was the case with the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of Accises, and practically with all the laws found on the agenda of this session of the Assembly. What is even more worrying is that an emergency procedure as some monster follows laws that dramatically increase taxes and impose on the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This was the case with the Excise Act, where the excise duty on diesel was practically increased dramatically, and three weeks ago and the excise on gasoline, which is a drastic blow not only to the standard of individual citizens, so, natural persons, but also to the legal persons and the entire economy, because in the structure of all products there are also excise duties as a major imposition. But that was also the case with a law that, in a similar way as this law, defines criminal penalties when violating the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration and dimensions them in a similar way and in similar amounts to a million dinars for legal persons, 500,000 for natural persons and the like. We warned that the Republic of Serbia's budget was not projected correctly. We have warned that the Republic government is about to propose sets of laws that will increase excise duties and penalties dramatically, to fill these gaps in the budget. And now the citizens of Serbia, and the Serbian Parliament and all the MPs individually suffer because of the reckless and unprofessionally defined budget of the Republic of Serbia. Article 6 states that Article 33 is amended and reads: "The law or regulation can prescribe fines in the range of 2 out of 10,000 to 1,000,000 dinars for the legal person, 3 out of 5,000 to 500,000 dinars for the entrepreneur. "The same thing we saw in the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, and it is absolutely not clear what legal person in the Republic of Serbia can handle today, which a legal person can pay for a fine of 1,000,000 dinars, which a natural person can pay a fine of 500,000 dinars. In the case of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which is even worse, the increase in fines followed only because of the untimely application, i.e. the submission of applications from that legal or natural person, which is a completely inappropriate punishment for such circumstances. So, laws that practically fill the Serbian Republic's budget at the expense of Serbian citizens are laws that the Republic government has submitted by an urgent procedure, so that the MPs are deprived of the possibility of correcting this law in amendment and so that they are not able to adequately explain to their voters that what we have days as proposals before the Republika Srpska Assembly is actually a constant imposition on citizens of the Republic of Serbia by an urgent procedure, by a brief procedure, without amendments and without the ability for MPs to prepare and to adequately respond to such laws. When answers, as was the case three weeks ago, to amendments and additions to the Excise Act, so when the National Assembly refuses to increase any imposition, then, as in the correctional exam, as students of the law, they return to the National Assembly and are again required to give them legislation. This law didn't solve the question that needs to be solved. Please, fellow, be correct. A Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group exited. The Democratic Party did not report the speakers. I am extremely constructive and the Democratic Party has not reported, we have not participated in what happened today in the National Assembly. Now this kind of pitching I think everything's just not right. So this law does not solve what needs to be solved, and what needs to be solved is a chronic problem that is decadent. It's certainly not just this government's problem. The problem that practically annually, on average, about 1,500,000 cases are found in courts for violations and the problem is that last year, for example, out of 1,500,000 cases, 800,000 cases were solved, means 100,000 more than the average. In principle, about 700,000 are solved, or the average was 700,000 a year, so half. The reason for that is quite simple. Bagatel penalties, i.e. fines which are exaggerating values, penalties for belting, i.e. non-binding of citizens' belts, overspeed and so on, were also resolved by courts for violations, i.e. judges for violations, equal to the most severe and most valuable offences, and that is something that was a problem that covered courts for violations, which allowed arbitration, therefore, the identification of judges for violations by which they will solve and by which cases they will not. It's all but a prince who provides legal certainty and a valid response and the work of courts for violations. What would be good is the practical deconcentration of this procedure, i.e. the resolution of the procedure in the first degree of the mandate, in the case of penalties of which the value of which is dung, at the level of the Ministry of the Interior, or the municipal organisations of the Ministry of the Interior and the transfer of the second degree to courts for violations. The estimates were that, if you want to solve all 1,500,000 cases at the level of misdemeanor courts, it takes about 500 new judges for violations, 500 scribes, a huge administration, which is not rational. In this regard, we believe that it would be much more rational for this procedure, therefore, for the terms of office, i.e. in the case of penalties of which the value of which is dwindling, this type of jurisdiction is given dominantly, and of course there are nuances, there are special acts for which special proceedings are to be conducted, so that they concentrate in the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. in the municipal organisations of the internal affairs. To move the second degree into the courts for violations and thus disperse the courts for violations, since it is a chronic disease. So probably a lot harder than regular or commercial courts. Customs, foreign trade, foreign exchange operations had to be moved to a republican level under the provisions of the Constitutional Charter and under federal legislation, i.e. Community legislation. That's not controversial, but what's controversial and what we're arguing about is, firstly, the methodology, the procedure that enters into the proposal of this law. So an emergency procedure, something that reduces the rights of MPs, something that shortens and deprives the possibility that all MPs will respond to the bill and certainly, the fact that this law, when it is on the agenda, but when it is in front of the National Assembly, should solve what is cancer. We're dealing with things that are more or less peripheral, things that need to be solved, that could have been solved, maybe even by alterations and additions, through transitional and final provisions, and we're not dealing essentially. This is a waste of time, burdening taxpayers, increasing penalties, and re-entering what is budgeting, not solving problems, and thus not solving the efficiency and rationality of the courts for violations, in the way that Serbian citizens deserve it. I would once again like to express regret that the only representative of the opposition, practically, in this National Assembly, has not been heard in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-18-0.u3548	Since no one in writing has applied for a word, I'm asking if anyone else wants to exercise their right to Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. You sent a written path not to accept the amendments that have been sent to you? (Zoran Stojkovic: Yes. ) National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after article 2. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The proposer does not accept the amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's Milovan Radovanovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Gajic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was submitted by the People's Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, does the proposing representative – Zoran Stojkovic, minister of justice want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since we have completed the debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at 10.00 p.m. on 21 May 2004, as the day for voting on the 11th session agendas of the 1st regular session in 2004.
