ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6371	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 153 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 84 MPs are present in the hall and there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Velimir Stanojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Brance Stojanović, Anita Beretic and Svetislav Krstic. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a JUDGE DECISION You have received a proposal for a decision, which has been submitted by the High Council of Justice. You received a notice from the High Council of Justice that Dragan Jovanovic, the proposed candidate for the municipal court judge in Krusevec, the National Assembly of 30 June 2004, chose as public prosecutor at the Municipality's public prosecutor's office in Krusevec and that Mr. Ilija Zindovic, the proposed candidate for the Court of Commerce in the Kingdom, withdrew his candidacy. You've received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Management of Opinions were appointed by the MPs: Bosko Ristić, Petar Jojic, Vjerica Radeta and Išpanović Istvan. I remind you, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the representative – Janko Lazarevic, chairman of the High Council of Justice, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an honor and pleasure to be here today in front of you as chairman of the High Council and acting as acting president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. You've received our proposal, and I'm just going to introduce you to a few statistical facts. According to the systematisation of all courts in the Republic of Serbia, it has been systematised by 2,431 judges to be deployed. According to the High Council and the Justice Department's record, 209 judges were unfulfilled, so we at the High Council of Justice previously established the criteria, because you know that after this set of amendments to the law, this new High Council of Justice has been elected, and in our work we have concluded, and since there was no rule, criteria and criteria for selecting judges, we have first established and respecting this criterion, from a session held on 26 June 2004, we have submitted this proposal to you. You can see from this that we did not go to full systemization, because we think, firstly, that this systematization has not been sufficiently checked, that it should be determined exactly how many courts are missing and how much it takes to be a judge, but we have come from the necessity of the orderly and up-to-date functioning of individual courts, and we have decided to propose this number of candidates in these courts. We collected all that data and brought it out, and we explained it on the Committee. And then, if there's any need, I'll answer the questions, if there's any need for individual candidates. Thank you, and so much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6373	Does the Justice and Administration Committee's rapporteur – Jovan Palalic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the MPs, who have singled out opinions, Bosko Ristic, Petar Jojic, Verica Radeta and Išpanović Istvan want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of the search, the application for a word, in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the Democratic Party and the Serbian Radical Party. I give the word to the messenger of the people, Miodrag Zidić, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6374	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable and Honorable Mr Minister, DS MPs have objections to the established proposal of the High Council of Justice for the election of Supreme Court Judges, Trade Court, District and Municipal Courts. Before I make a concrete statement about what our objections and what proposals apply to, I want to say that I think that the situation in the judiciary, ever since Minister Stojkovic came to the post, has not improved at all, and I will not say that it has worsened, the situation in the judiciary is as it has been for the past 15 years, very bad. I'm afraid we won't achieve anything more in the next period and we won't make the judiciary any better than it is now. I think the adoption of a new constitution, I hope it happens by the end of the year, will help resolve and improve the situation in the judiciary. Once the judge's office, on the list of most valued professions or functions, was convincing in the first place, and today, unfortunately, that's not the case. When you look at the list of most esteemed professions, you will see that the judicial function is located at the bottom or at the bottom. Whether or not we will succeed in the next period to improve it, I hope we will, but honestly I'm a skeptic when it comes to the judiciary, because a million reasons it says it won't be like that. I know that there are judges in Serbian courts today who participated in election thefts, and nothing happened to them today, and today, we have suggestions here to make some of them progress, so that they go from county to Supreme or municipal to go to county court. All of us are full of the mouths of the independence of the judiciary, and we keep saying that - the independent judiciary, but I'm afraid it's just declarative, and we really don't have an independent judiciary, and what can be seen from the proposals that have been made. I'll take just one example or two. One concerns the Municipality court in Leskovec. The Municipality court in Leskovac has established proposals for candidates who unfortunately do not have a day of experience in the judiciary. Despite the recommendations of the Municipality court in Leskovac to elect judges who have a lot of experience, this has not been done. I would like to hear the criteria of the High Council of Justice when he decided to propose a choice of people for the Municipality Court in Leskovac, who do not have days in the judiciary, and you have very experienced judges, which colleagues say are very good and very good. We also have an example of the municipal court in Capac, where the president of the court is not consulted at all when candidates for the most judicial functions are appointed. I will now specifically challenge some names, so I will say that the MPs of the Democratic Party will certainly not vote and are against the election of the Muggle Miodrag for the Supreme Court of Serbia, who is a lawyer in the Sabac Bar, and, according to our knowledge, man has never worked in the area of the Shappac Bar, i.e. the District Court in Sapac. We also dispute Nikolic Milomir, currently the judge of the Uzic District Court, who is scheduled to be elected to the Supreme Court of Serbia, and the man is a participant in the 2000 election theft. We are arguing for the Supreme Court of Serbia and Okic Nevenka, judge of the District Court in Belgrade. According to our information, her husband is acting as president of the District Court in Belgrade. For the District Court in Jagodina we dispute Simic Radoslav, judge of the Municipal Court in Paracina. The Kragujevac District Court – we are opposed to the election of Lekovic Dragan, judge of the Kragujevac Municipal Court, who participated in 1996 in the shut down of the journal "Lightness", and this was a mounted political process. As for the District Court in Šapec, we also dispute two names: Lazarevic Ivan, currently the judge of the Municipality Court in Šapec, his sister is the District Court judge in Šapec, it would really not be good for his own brother and sister to be judges of a district court, specifically in Šapec. We also challenge Pajic Oliver, Judge of the Municipal Court in Ljubovija, to be elected District Court in Šapec. As for the Municipal Court in Sapac, we dispute both proposals of the High Council of Justice, and Janjetovic Aleksandra, who is now a senior judicial associate of the Municipal Court in Sapac, and Ralic Leposav, also a senior judicial associate, but the District Court in Sapac, for the simple reason that the President of the Municipal Court in Sapac is not consulted when setting out these proposals. As far as the Municipality court in Leskovec is concerned, that's where I said what I had to say. Let me just say that the proposals: Predrag Dimitrijevic, who is now a supervisor at "Zravlja" Leskovac, the Action Society, Nevena Mitić, the Social Labour Secretary in Leskovac and Suzana Mitrovica, senior judicial associate of the Municipality's Court in Leskovac, may be able to agree on it, she has some experience in the work of the judiciary. But for these two first proposals, we really can't agree, because besides them, they came forward, as candidates, judges who have years of trial experience and for which the College of the Municipal Court in Leskovec gave an extremely favourable opinion. For these reasons, we will in no way vote for these proposals. Finally, for the Trade Court in Belgrade, we believe that Nikolic Mladen, currently judge of the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade, could not successfully perform the post and that proposal will be challenged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6375	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. For each I have the right to speak for a certain time, so I ask you in one address to make both of these remarks to the Rules of Procedure without you counting on me separately. The first breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I am reporting for, refers to Rule 79. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which follows from Article 79, paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: "The National Assembly is meeting in an extraordinary session at the request of at least a third of the total number of MPs or at the request of the Government, with an advanced agenda". On 10 August 2004, the president of the National Assembly convened a 10th extraordinary session for 18 August 2004, with the agenda set out in the request, including 84 MPs. The draft agenda, which is set out on the request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, may establish that the number of MPs requested by the extraordinary sitting is 83, not 84, to the extent that it represents a third of the Members of Parliament, i.e. to meet the condition provided for by the Constitution. Number 16 in the list of MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia lacks the signature of MP Goran Davidovic. The question arises as to why the president of the National Assembly called the 10th extraordinary session? So, this is one injury that is an important influence on whether this session can take place at all or whether the President of the Assembly was rude, not only violated by the Rules of Procedure, but also by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The second infringement relates to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 163(1). I will quote Article 163: "At an extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly shall act on the pre-defined agenda submitted by the applicant for the holding of an emergency session", which follows from Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: "The National Assembly is meeting in an extraordinary session at the request of at least a third of the total number of MPs or at the request of the Government, with an advanced agenda". In accordance with Article 162. The Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly, set a time when the Assembly will meet and send us a request, however, 83 MPs, who set the agenda in their application. At the meeting, the callers informed us that they were giving up the touch. 1), 2) and 5b. Since at an extraordinary session, the Assembly is working on an advanced agenda, changes to the agenda, shortening or expanding the agenda are not allowed. Only changes in the order of the proposed agenda points are allowed, which regulates Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure. On the basis of this, it is absolutely clear that if there is not one item on the agenda, there is no agenda in general, so the Assembly cannot continue the extraordinary session. I pray for this violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, both of which, the National Assembly declares. She can decide, thanks to the parliamentary majority, and that this advertising of the Rules of Procedure is wrong, and that there is a proposal to convene this extraordinary session, but we all know very well that this session has been called against both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and that it runs against the Rules of Procedure and against the Constitution, and for that someone has to bear conventions, and not just political ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6377	I immediately inform you that there has been a technical failure and that on August 12th, the Secretary of the Assembly, with an apology, has sent a full list and that there are the 84 MPs, and you can see that, it was only a replacement of the lists, that is the technical error that was subsequently corrected. As for the second injury, that's where the proposer pulled the first two points. We do not believe that this is an injured Rules of Procedure, nor is it a change of agenda, as you say. If you remain on your claim, in the voting day, we will declare whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been injured. If you're staying on it, please, you have your word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6378	I immediately said, dear colleagues, that I would like the National Assembly to plead on this matter, especially with regard to these other injuries. When it comes to the first breach of the Rules of Procedure, I expected you to say so. I've had that correction since August 12th, but I'm asking, how did the tenth president of the National Assembly call a session? It wouldn't be the same session. On the 10th, an emergency session was called for, 83 signatures were signed on the 10th, the same day the National Assembly president scheduled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, within seven days, a meeting of the National Assembly, although there are no conditions for that, so it violates the Constitution. We don't care what happened later. Did the president of the National Assembly break the constitution or not? On the basis of the fact that you sent this second convocation on the 12th, you admitted that it was. There's no better argument. I'm glad there's this correction that further proves what I'm saying about this speaker. Therefore, the president of the National Assembly is not able to do his job or deliberately violate the constitution, for which he must bear appropriate conventions, which are not only political, but also in front of the competent state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6379	Another explanation. At the time of the appointment of the Assembly there were both lists. One full, submitted by the Democratic Party, with full names; one where that name is missing. There were conditions for an appointment, but by technical error there was a delivery of that other list. However, I have already told you, if you remain on your claim, in the voting day, the Assembly will declare whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been injured, and the same applies to another injury. The People's Messenger has the word of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6380	Dear colleagues, it's nice to have a little chat today, since we don't have a neatly called National Assembly session, but I'll take the opportunity to talk about what's like put on the agenda, since there's no sitting, there's no agenda, but what's there? The judiciary in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, has never been completely independent and completely independent. The Supreme Dependence of the Judicial Authority from the executive authority, i.e. the influence of the executive authority on the judicial authority, was reached in the period from 2001 to the day of today, i.e. since its influence on the judiciary was misused by the DS. The Serbian government, Vojislav Kostunica and the minister of justice, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic, promised for this speaker and the public, in the media, that the situation in the judiciary would significantly improve, that depolitisation would take place in the judiciary, that the institutions of the system would be strengthened, primarily by the judicial ones, and I will not say that they had no sincere intention when they said so, but the fact that the work still has nothing. How could it still be when in Belgrade courts judges like Danko Lausevic, Zorica Jovanovic, Zeljko Scepanovic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic, Goran Kljajevic, Snezana Nastic, all of these are judges who, instead of on behalf of the people, have been on behalf of the DS for four years. This Snezana Nastic is the judge of the Fourth Municipal Court, she was judged for three years by the disturbance of the property, and we all know there is a necessary emergency procedure. The Snezana Nastic ended one lawsuit a month and a half ago, a lawsuit between the municipality of Zemun and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. This Snezana Nastic has given up implementing evidence that she has accepted in time, unknown to what reason she has excluded from the procedure of the registered owner on immovableity and there are only two reasons why she could handle Snježana Nastic to work so illegally, to abuse the judicial function: this lady is either blackmailed or bought. As far as the matter is concerned, it will be found out in a criminal procedure, which will certainly be launched against this Nastic. The other judges I mentioned here are no better, so I just pointed them out and mentioned them. Not only in Belgrade courts, everywhere in Serbia, unfortunately, in this last four-year period, there is a boom of nepotism, impunity, impunity, it all started Batic's cleanup of judges in 2001 and today, but fear between honorable and professional judges, who still have over their heads someone who is threatening their party power and who still cannot and still cannot resist in courts, and it is obvious that the institutions of the system still have no intention of seriously dealing with this problem. The High Council of Justice, when it came to the law that regulated it, we argued here that it was an unconstitutional category, we also claim today that it was an unconstitutional category, meanwhile the High Council of Justice turned into a private enterprise, completely privatised the situation in the judiciary. They are the ones who assess and evaluate who should be the judge, in which the court should fill a vacant place, in which it should not, completely without any criteria, simply, allow everything to be left to them at will. I don't think, and we don't think in the SRS, that all judges or that most judges in Serbia are bad. On the contrary, we are convinced and we know that most judges in Serbia are honest and honest people, that they are professionally doing their job, but unfortunately, as I said, they cannot come to terms, they cannot do what they know to do, and the judges are law-abiding, and the judges know that the law is the same for everything and that they are applying it, but those judges are sitting in their cabinets or courtrooms, they can't wait for the end of the working day to end and go home, happy that no one told them that it was their last day in court and to threaten them with influence, exclusively political influence, and still political influence by DS – Boris Tadic. So the question arises – why is this how the problems in the judiciary are solved? What you're trying to do, Mr. Minister, to solve ad hoc problems, this is to put out petty fires, and the fire is going on. It is unacceptable to fill the judges' seats in this way, because we think this business should have been approached very seriously. It is necessary to establish criteria to know how many judges in Serbia are really needed, extremely seriously, to know how many judges are needed. But not to be anyone's will, but clearly established criteria, according to European standards. At every step we talk about integration with Europe, so here's an example where we could do something that would fit European standards, not that we have in some cities, and at all in Serbia, much more judges than countries that are five to six times greater than Serbia. We, too, are convinced in the Serbian Radical Party that the poor situation in the judiciary does not come from just not having enough judges, as presented here, and then we need to fill out some judicial functions in an emergency procedure at the non-existent session. The problem is other species and it must be resolved systematically, at the level of the state, the ministry, the government. There are a lot of problems in the judiciary, and those not related to the judges, are related to the position of judges, the position of employees. That's the problem that the government of the Republic of Serbia has to solve predominantly. The criteria on the basis of which judges are proposed and elected are also unclear, and for example we have a decision taken by the High Council of Justice on the criteria and criteria for proposing candidates for the selection of judges and presidents, where Article 1 says: the assessment of the professionality of the work of the registered candidates is based on the quality achieved, the up-to-dateness of the work in the three-year period preceding the submission of applications for the selection of the judge or president, and in paragraph 2, that the additional criterion for the assessment of the expertise takes into account the length of the study and to achieve success in the studies for candidates who are first elected, acquired academic knowledge and published scientific papers. All of us MPs received a proposal for a decision on the selection of judges and we only have basic biographical data, when someone was born, which year, which year of college, which year passed the judicial exam. Of what is provided for in Article 1(2). Decisions on criteria and criteria for proposing candidates for the election of judges and the president of the court have no sign. Furthermore, Article 6 of the same decision states: the criteria for assessing the quality of work of candidates from the order of judges for election in several judicial cases are the number of objects metrically solved from the basic matter, the percentage of the decisions lifted, confirmed and amended in relation to the number of measurement decisions considered by regular and extraordinary legal remedies, so I ask everyone if any of these data is known to any of the proposed judges? I'm sure he doesn't know - we didn't get that. Article 14 of the same decision states: under the dignity to perform a judicial post, the reputation that the candidate enjoys in the environment from which he originates, the tolerance shown in professional discussions, the willingness to respect other people's opinions and arguments in the collective decision-making process is considered. Such a general provision, believe me, means nothing. Whether someone enjoys the reputation in my eyes, or in the eyes of one of you, it is completely individual and is no criterion, at least regulated in this way as it stands in the decision, even as it is written, there is no report of any concrete proposal related to this member of the decision. We know well what is done in Serbia's courts, we know what the influence of the minority is. These bad judges are numbered in the minority in relation to those honorable and honest judges, but unfortunately most and the president of the courts fall into these bad judges, and here's how many months have passed since the formation of the new government nothing has been done, and it was necessary to do so too, especially since we know that all the presidents in Serbia were elected after 5 October 2000, that those who were presidents, without any valid explanation, had no criteria removed, just because they were not representatives of the Democratic Party. In the meantime, just like the presidents of the courts have been appointed, they also treat the citizens in the place where they are being tried, and also to fellow judges who are indeed professionals. Such judges are not allowed to report to any competition because they are threatened that if they report to the competition they will be resolved, and then they sit in a corner and remain silent, they must not react. The government's members certainly know that in Serbia's Supreme Court, but no one is doing anything concrete to resolve the problem. Also, drastic things are being resolved where there is a neat "coordination" between the municipal and the county court, so if a judge is on the teeth of his superior elder, then all his convictions that arrive in the district court's appeal in that area are lifted, so that the judge has a worse result. And the one that needs to be forced, all his judgments are confirmed, to have a good result. What does that mean? Em, it is an incorrect relationship with these judges that is at stake, is even worse and the fact that in these decisions people from that court, the people who are involved in this process, the parties in the process, and through these citizens, there are bickering between the president of the courts and certain judges in certain cities in Serbia. So, there are a lot of problems, we all know about these problems, we talk about them, and no one is doing anything in particular, where I think of the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court of Serbia, and I'm not going to talk about the High Council of Justice, because I repeat, in the Serbian Radical Party, we claim that this is an unconstitutional category, and in this whole story they shouldn't even be important, although unfortunately they are the most important, because these proposals are also the ones that come from them. I will specifically say a few things about the proposals we received in this decision, of course where we have objections in the Serbian Radical Party. Namely, we have a complaint and I challenged the Committee's session of the proposal for Stanisavljević Ljubinka, which was proposed by the municipal court judge in Boljevac. It is a woman who is the secretary of the Faculty of Engineering in Bor, who is completely incapable of performing this function, and we from the Serbian Radical Party point out that by applying a member of the 14th watch that is not worthy of performing a judicial post. We have the District Court area in Jagodina. Now you will hear how the High Council of Justice works in cooperation with certain judges and certain judge presidents. He proposed to the High Council of Justice that Simic Radoslav, judges and president of the Municipal Court in Paracin, and Velisavljevic Jasminka, Judge of the Municipal Court in Paracin, are elected to the Jasmink District Court for judges in Jagodina. For unknown reasons, the High Council of Justice estimated that Mrs Velisavljevic Jasminka should not be elected as judge of the District Court in Jagodina, but estimated that it should be Vojinović Mirjana, judge of the Municipality of Jagodina. What's going on now? What I was reading at the beginning of my discussion, which refers to this three-year period of evaluation of candidates, and the criteria for assessing the quality of work of candidates from the order of judges for election to several judicial cases are: the number of metrically solved subjects from the basic matter, the percentage of the abolished, confirmed, modified decisions. In 2001, Vojnovic Mirjana had 20.83% of decisions abolished; in 2002 it had 27.03% of the decisions abolished, and in 2003 it increased to 34.38%. So the three-year period that was observed says that this lady from year to year had an increase in percentages of the judgments abolished; nor is the criterion, as set out, respected. It's about self-will. Whose will is it? The President of the Jagodina District Court, Tomic, and the President of the District Court in Kragujevac, are members of the High Council of Justice, so they both cared very much about Vojnovic Mirjana being judge of the Jagodina District Court because her husband is a member of the Democratic Party, so some of the debts had to pay him like this. They delivered it to us to vote for it, past the District Court College of Jagodina's will. For the Municipality court in Leskovac we have a proposal to elect Dimitrijevic Predrag, Mitić Nevena and Mitrovica Suzana. Dimitrijevic Predrag and Mitic Nevena are proposals I challenged at a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration. The reason for the dispute is that both express party membership in the public and, worse still, in the work. They're both tied to the Democratic Party. They both use their jobs in the interest of the Democratic Party. For this Dimitrijevic Predrag, it is said that the supervisor in Zdralj is Leskovac, and in Zdralj, Leskovac says that everyone who is subject to the job is a psychopath, and this Dimitrijevic Predrag, whom the High Council of Justice proposes to us as a judge, is not a psychopath. Imagine that! Mitic Nevena is the secretary of the Social Labour Centre in Leskovac. It does not meet the conditions set out in Article 14 which speaks of dignity for the performance of the judicial post. It's about someone who's a bad man and who, although the secretary of the Social Labour Centre, and her husband is also an activist of the Democratic Party, has affected social workers by threatening to get fired, so they had to do what she told them to do. Of course, everyone in Leskovac knows that. Drecun Zoran, Jamusakov Zora and Tomic - Jokic Svetlana were proposed for the District Court in Novi Sad. I challenged the proposal for Jamusakov Zora, as did my other colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party. Jamusakov Zora is tied to the Democratic Party and to the functioning of the Democratic Party on the territory of Novi Sad, i.e. courts on the territory of Novi Sad. In addition, the Justice and Administration Committee has received several complaints about the work of this lady, I think it was even a criminal complaint. From the Justice Committee to the High Council of Justice and the Supreme Court, as well as the Ministry of Justice, we sent a request on June 17th to review all the objections we received at the work of Mrs Jamusakov Zora. Instead of the fact that they are really reviewing it and the Committee is proposing to Yamushakov Zora the Judge of the District Court in Novi Sad. Krstic Mirjana and Vrsajkov Snježana were proposed for the Municipality court in Somboro. As well as my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party, I have challenged the proposal for Vrsakov Snezana, because it is unworthy to perform this function, because he is a bad man and because in public and in work he over-expresses his party's belonging to the Democratic Party. There's something very interesting about Smederjevska Palanca. The proposal for Judge Djordjevic Dejan in Smederjevska Palanca was not disputed because we had no reason. There's something else. For a long time, there have been two vacant seats for judges in the Smederjevska Palanca. The President of the Court persistently, through the High Council of Justice, pushes to fill only one seat because he keeps it to himself because he knows that he will not be President of the Court for a long time, because he is aware that he does not meet the basic requirements for the performance of that function. We didn't even have any objections to the district of Uzic County Court about the proposed names. There is something that is not only present in Užica, but also in other places in other courts. They even compete much better candidates than these. For example, Mrs Milka Rosic, who was the deputy public prosecutor and who was "cleaned" by Vladan Batic in that "judicate saber" in 2001, competed for Kosjeric. The lady persistently competed and, of course, no one remembers to return her to work, although she is currently out of work, and no objections were made to her work at the time she served as deputy public prosecutor in Koseric. Now we come to a very interesting area, and this is the area of the County Court in Šapec. When last time, which was a month and a half or two ago, we spoke and when we elected public prosecutors and their deputies here, then the representative of the High Council of Justice - the prosecutor, at the session of the Justice and Administration Committee, said that the situation in the judiciary in the territory of the Sabac municipality was disastrous, because he says: there is some Petrovic burning and burning, miraculously real, privatised the court, there is no court, there is no court, there everything is done as some Petrovic does. This is what a representative of the High Council of Justice said. That's when I said, but that's what I'm saying right now, this Petrovic is the president of the Sabac Assembly, the vice president of the Democratic Party, and the MP is in this House. Now this gentleman, through the High Council of Justice, is sending us proposals for the County Court in Šapec and for the Municipal Court in Šapec. His proposals include Arlov Vesna, Dražić Radenka and Janjetović Aleksandra. None of them fulfils this condition in Article 14. Decisions. That is why, as well as my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party, I have challenged these proposals. Given the way this caller has been called, in fact we are working past the Rules of Procedure, and given the fact that the difficult situation in Serbia's justice is in every respect, starting from material to human beings, I suggest that we do not vote on the proposal for this decision, that the Minister, the High Council of Justice, as well as the Supreme Court, are once again reviewing, not offering us any individual solutions, but offering us a long, comprehensive solution. So we finally know: how many judges in Serbia, how many judges in Serbia should have, who do not meet the conditions, that few judges with criminal charges are combed, there are against Goran Kljajevic, to do a little bit of criminal reporting against Danko Lausevic, who has been standing with all these institutions for about 2.5 years, to deal with little objections to the work of these judges, which I mentioned at the beginning of my today's discussion -- and Željko Scepanovic, and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, and Zorica Jovanovic, and Snezana Nastic. Those regime judges who really, as all their colleagues know and what the Belgrade judiciary is talking about, have been doing on the orders of the Democratic Party. For example, this Zeljko Scepanovic, in one criminal case, quickly ended the case, gave up the hearing of 11 witnesses, ruled, and before that there was information that he was told to finish this case, you are going to the District Court, sure. Remember that, there will be a proposal from the High Council of Justice for the District Court for this gentleman. So, we from the Serbian Radical Party, I repeat and stress, will not vote for these judges for the reasons I was talking about. I also recommend to you, dear colleagues, that you do not vote because in this way we do not solve problems in the judiciary, and a state that does not care about justice will never be a legal state. The judiciary is one of the basic pillars of every legally regulated state. I hope we all strive for such a state. But Serbia has endured much, will endure for a few months after the next parliamentary elections, we will establish an independent judiciary for us from the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6381	Thank you. Here you go. Replica - National MP Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6382	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, from time to time I hear, and from different sides, that my name is placed in different frames. When it comes to justice in Capco, I am the president of the Municipality of Capac, but I would very much like to hear, from the MPs who spoke here for a moment, so I loved, wanted and asked for an explanation from anyone on the Committee on Justice and Administration, too, on this subject. So, about how the president of the Municipality of Capco did it, how you said "lights and fires," or how all the syntagms were used. What is most important is the fact that the local administration in Šapec, and now for four years, is not on anyone's side of justice, not in direct contact, nor, as it seemed during some previous authorities, telephoned or I don't know how. I'd like anyone to testify that anyone from the Sabbath office has asked for something to be done or not done when it comes to civil or criminal matters. All the objections I had as the president of the municipality at the state of justice in Capco were made publicly by all means of information, local and central. That's not the subject of political outwitting in Capco. A large number of people in the city, where I am president of the municipality, think crime is a major problem, a significant problem, however you receive it, it is not the usual situation in Serbia. So, on average in Serbia, people don't think crime is a big problem; they think in Sapco. Along with my associates, I've been making objections to the work of both the police and the judiciary, in the most legitimate, or rather, the only legitimate possible way, in an open and public discussion of all this. So, I'd like anyone to explain to me what "lights" means, which means "burn," which means "influence" on the judiciary, because I'd very much like to know what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6383	Thank you. Here you go. Excuse me, on what basis is the replica? About hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6384	This discussion reminded me a lot of the discussion from before, perhaps two years ago, of the coalition partner Mr. Petrovic and Vladan Batic, when he was told that he had influenced some judges in Belgrade, so he called publicly all the judges he had influenced, who he called on the phone, and told them to do it one way or another, let the judges come out and let them say that it affected them. It's just amazing. Then I also told Vladan Batic, whether he expects the Fourth Municipal Court Judge Ljiljana Mihajlovic, she is famous for the case "Magistrate", whose rulings the Supreme Court annulled, to say, "Yes, Vladan Batic called me to come to his cabinet and that the verdict works in his cabinet." Of course, Mr. Petrovic, we don't expect any of the judges to say, "Yes, Mr. Petrovic called me and I listened to him. "You were talking while I was talking about this pay phone, so only when you heard your name, then you turned yourself in to hear it further. At the beginning, I said that a representative of the High Council of Justice told the Justice and Administration Committee that some Petrovic in Sapac "lights and fires" that the most disastrous situation in the judiciary in Sapac is because some Petrovic calls on judges, a private court, and that they are doing what Petrovic says. Those were heard by your colleagues, Bosko Ristic, and I don't know who else was, but I know for a fact that Bosko was at the board's session. Here, and Zoran Krasic heard, heard others who were present and I absolutely stand behind what I said, stands the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group behind all that I said. Whether the Serbian Radical Party MPs are right or you are right when you say we are wrong, we are patient for another month, the citizens of Sapca will tell us who is right, whether we are from the Serbian Radical Party or you from the Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6385	Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6386	I don't know, Mrs. Radeta, which is an insult to your honor and reputation, so you used article 100. Rules of Procedure. I may not be completely focused, so I hear what you're saying. Even when you're completely focused, you don't understand what I'm saying. What I said, I called you, who interpreting the testimony of a certain member of the High Council of Justice, as I understand it, that you or a certain member of the Justice Council say what "lights" means, what does "fire" mean to "influence" the judges and the judiciary? So, I don't know what Mr. Batic was doing, not after this pay phone, not outside of it. Mr Batic was not a subject of my presentation, but I invited you, if you have knowledge, not a judge, that someone told you publicly or secretly, or to the chairman of your committee in Sapac, or Cedomir Vasiljevic, who came out of the Serbian Radical Party, and went to Bogoljub Karic, or any of your party's officials, if he said that I or any of my associates influenced the work of the judiciary, to say so. No more than that. There are no questions of your honor and reputation, there are mine, but I forgive you everything you've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6387	On what grounds? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6388	I'm reporting from a member who's been called today's session. I am reporting to tell Mr Petrovic that he has no reason to worry about my honor. I just spoke here and said I was misread. You take care of both your honor and the honor and reputation of your party, both in Šapac and Serbia, and everything you have done with Batic and without Batic. Don't give up on those you've worked with, Mr. Petrovic, and all of this in particular that you're asking me to do, it's going to be the subject of some other procedure. They'll know the Attorney General in Capco, but then when it's not your public prosecutor, what it means is everything I said about this pay phone. (Dusan Petrovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6389	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? By what member? Please don't mention it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6390	Not to mention, Mrs. Radeta mentioned me. I hope I finish this and we won't do it again, and I haven't given up anyone. Otherwise, I told representatives of one of the important parties in this parliament before the presidential elections that they would see what hit them in the elections. That's how you radicals will see what will happen to you in the elections in Capca.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6391	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6392	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if this one of yours, conditionally speaking, may be a future or previous coalition partner nervous, has taken out eyes on Mrs. Radet and MPs a certain Petrovic. Mr Petrovic, I am personally convinced that a member of the High Council of Justice, when he said – some Petrovic, was thinking of you. Now, I am convinced of that, and I believe that the citizens of Serbia believe that it is you. I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, according to the same article President Predrag Markovic has scheduled the Assembly. Since this is a non-existent session, I also report to the non-existent member of the Rules of Procedure, apparently, but I have the opportunity and the right to report to both Article 1 and Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, and to tell Mr. Petrovic, instead of cutting his eyes out on the MPs and on Mrs. Radet, that he is better off, since he is convinced that he has some chance, they call you in Šapco: Petrovic - six percent. Is that right? Fight for six percent. With six percent of the votes you can get a group of councilmen, President SO Shabac you certainly won't be. As for the SRS, regardless of the various plantings, various financial, criminal lobbies, to which you are not immune either, and to Šapac, and to Kragujevac, and to Belgrade, and to Novi Sad, and to Nis, and to Piroth, and to Subotica will win the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6393	Please, just before you get the word, that we're really getting the hang of it. On the basis of the demands, I explained, he had two requests with a full list, so with 84 MPs, when he called the Assembly. Let us not really say that it is an illegally called congregation. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6394	And if you were speaking politely, I'd say you're telling the truth. But you're lying. You're lying because it's a manners, your manners in public statements, which you don't normally have, and for you I don't know, but some of your officials, you don't have in private contacts. A lot of you are people who are decent, except when you go out for this pay phone. So you lied about all those nicknames you were talking about. I want to finish, as far as I'm concerned, I'm afraid big eyes, you're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6395	Here you go. You mean a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6396	You are in fear, Mr. Petrovic, so that's why your big eyes are too, and therefore you should cake them to the MPs of the SRS. As far as this expression of yours is concerned, you said, and I quote your words, it is not polite to behave in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You claim to be the president of the Sabac municipality again, you won't be, but because of political culture, because it is likely that citizens will punish you for the policy you have led as president of the Sabac municipality. And you're probably predicating, and from the position you have in your party, to stay in your political life: then a little culture, a little tolerance, a little democratic appearance, no shouting, no eye browning, and no such cry, and especially to members of a gentler sex, or ladies in the Assembly, such as Mrs. Radeta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6397	The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6398	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I believe that the choice of judges in courts is from municipal over county to Supremely important issues and that the citizens of Serbia are anxious to expect that we in Skuština will vote and who we will support to enter the judiciary and get to be the bearer of the highest judicial functions. Why does it matter? It is certain that there is an undivided view between all relevant political factors that the situation in the judiciary is not good. I think it's the wrong fight between political parties over who contributed the most to the poor situation in the judiciary. A bad situation in the judiciary is an inherited matter. It is a dynamic area where problems are very often accumulated, from court to court in a different way, so you have some courts that are more efficient and that protect the rights and freedoms of citizens in Serbia, while other courts are completely inefficient. The cause of such a situation in the judiciary differs. Something bad is the professional and humane structure in the judiciary, and some are the shortages of material resources, something is the wrong policy, which, over a long period of time, is directed towards justice, and something is constitutional and legal, which did not allow the judiciary to really acquire essential independence and independence. It is our political mission, both this Parliament and some future parliament, to improve the situation in the judiciary. I expected, as an MP and a citizen, that every government, including every parliament and every party, would have a little more hearing to repair the situation in the judiciary, not that the judiciary would only remember when prosecutors and judges were elected. It is not judicial reform that changes the personal composition of courts and prosecutors. It seems to me that the largest number of MPs understands the change in the judiciary. I advocate that the change in the judiciary is essential, that it really gets the reform situation and that it comes from within, from the judiciary itself, the judges and prosecutors get the courage, first of all, to point out the problems that the sea and the quietness, to point out to those holders of judicial and public prosecutorial functions that do not do their job well, to show to the highest judicial authorities, who need to gain fundamental independence and to achieve the independence of the judicial authority. It is often said here that a party is trying to influence the judiciary, that individual politicians, that some MPs want to influence the judiciary. I say, I want to personally influence the judiciary to make it better, I want us to create a strategy for reform in the judiciary, to turn this reform strategy into laws, to discuss all three branches of government. That the Committee for the Justice and Administration of the Republic Assembly, the Ministry of Justice and the High Council of Justice, is represented by his representative, particularly the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, sit down and discuss the problems of the judiciary, but not when the session of the Justice Committee and this assembly is on the agenda of the selection of judges and prosecutors, when we have specific names ahead, which we are arguing about. We seem to have taken a positive step at the last session of the Justice Committee, because the newly elected president of that committee has accepted the suggestion to talk on a tripartite basis between all three branches of the judiciary and to talk about the problems of the judiciary freed from the names of the candidates currently in the proposal of the High Council of Justice. I support that, personally. My parliamentary group wants to participate in judicial reform in the Constitution and in the legal manner prescribed. We want to influence justice to be better, we want to influence its efficiency, that Serbian citizens do not wait 20 years from filing a lawsuit to carrying out a verdict, not that those who have received disputes after 10 years of trial are still in the process, as a new lawsuit, to exercise their rights. Personally, as a lawyer, I represent my aunt in front of a court in Nis, who has 20 years of litigation, where she has succeeded in disputes, but cannot succeed because it cannot be carried out. It's a personal example, but I'm talking as much about how much a political factor can affect a dispute. I think we're exaggerating from this pay phone about the political impact on the judiciary in general. There are individual influences on individuals in the judiciary. This is to say the name and last name of which the disputes, which are criminal cases, and to call individuals who are holders of judicial functions, and individuals who influence that judge not to be independent in making decisions. Otherwise, all of us together should be able to make the judiciary better. The Democratic Party, as I myself, as a member of the Committee on Justice, has disputed only a small part of the proposal for a choice of candidates for the highest judicial functions. Those disputes were not political. We didn't tell any candidates – he was a member of the party, those sympathies of the party, because it's an intimate thing for each candidate individually. We were guided by criteria and criteria, underlining – criteria and criteria, which were established by members of the High Council of Justice. We have obtained these criteria and criteria for selecting the holders of judicial functions in writing. By comparing the proposals of the High Council of Justice and applying these criteria and criteria, we have identified a lack in applying the same criteria. When we challenged the election for the Supreme Court Judges, Mr. Brkljač Miodrag was challenged because the decision on criteria states in Article 4 that the High Council of Justice is obliged to obtain the opinion of the chamber from which the candidate is a lawyer for one of the judicial functions. In a concrete case, the lawyer's chamber of Sapca has not been consulted and has not given an opinion on Mr. Brkljac Miodrag's election as Serbian Supreme Court Judge. This is the lack and non-application of the criteria set by the High Council of Justice itself. So, this gentleman is not famous in the Bar Association, he has not worked on its territory and no one has collectively declared his work, but it is an obligation under both the Constitution and the Law on Judges, but also an obligation on how to obtain opinions for candidates who have been established by the High Council of Justice. The analysis of the data and documentation in the case concerning the proposal of this candidate was found in the Justice Committee that the individual opinion on this candidate had given three lawyers from Kosovo and Metohija, which is not a prescribed way of obtaining opinions, and I do not believe that this candidate fulfils the legal requirements for the Serbian Supreme Court election. In particular, there are a large number of candidates coming from the justice system, whose personal list, as judges, says they have all the predisposition to be elected for this highest judicial post. For what? Because many of these judges had high-quality work in the previous period, a very small number of abolished judgments by senior courts and a very small number of declared extraordinary legal remedies to the Supreme Court of Serbia. We have challenged two other candidates for the election for judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia, in one case that is Okic Nevenka, judge of the District Court in Belgrade, whose husband is now the official of the District Court's office in Belgrade. It is too much for a couple of judges to be proposed within a few months in such a way as to advance in the judiciary, when there is also a Law on Judges and in the Law on the High Council of Justice, the inability to move within the judiciary in such a way. And otherwise, there is another conflict and conflict of interest between this couple, because the President of the District Court, in this case a concrete husband should decide on a request for his wife's exemption, as judge in the same district court. I don't think this situation is regular, and it shouldn't be given support precisely for the reasons of nepotism, where a married couple, in such a rash way, advances through the justice system and through courts, and we have a number of candidates who also or before meet the conditions for progress. As for the District Court in Jagodina, in order not to be inconclusive, candidate Simic Radoslav, Judge of the Municipality Court in Paracina, was challenged, not for reasons of unfairness, not for reasons of intricacies and ineffectiveness, I want to underline this because of the professional and general public, but for the reason why the judge of the District Court in Jagodina is elected to do first degree criminal cases and there are a number of candidates who, according to their work résumé, professional work and according to the personal working list, meet the conditions to be elected for this court office. There are three candidates who work criminal matter, who have good results, who transfer the standard over 100% of the cases received, have a small number of complaints or a small number of abolished or modified cases. Therefore, we believe that by respecting the decision on criteria, the High Council of Justice could make a decision, or establish a proposal that would be more comprehensive. As for the District Court in Kragujevac, proposed candidate Lekovic Dragan, the municipal court judge in Kragujevac, participated in a political process where the journal "Light" which represented the free media was shut down, as a possibility of presenting a different political opinion or attitude on certain socio-political issues. We believe that it excludes him as a candidate, because he is unworthy to advance in the service, given his working biography and participation in the mounted political process. The Sabac District Court, we agreed to a dispute highlighted by a representative of the Serbian Radical Party on the Justice Committee, are only different reasons for the dispute. Mrs Radeta has challenged the candidate in Sapac, also arguing that they are candidates attached to the Democratic Party and that the Democratic Party is behind their candidacy. The best denials are that the Democratic Party also contests these candidates, but not for political reasons, but because the president of the court, elected by these candidates, is not consulted. According to the Law on Judges, it is necessary to obtain an opinion from the elders of the bodies in which the judges are elected. So it's a clear law-making reason why there is a lack in the procedure of proposing the election of these candidates. The municipality court of Leskovac - we have challenged candidates together with representatives of the SRS, which best says that the proposed candidates are not members of the DS, but are candidates who are not supported by the colleges of the court where they were and which is a legal obligation. The criteria prescribed by the High Council of Justice and its members are not respected by the High Council of Justice itself. If the criteria had been respected, then proposals would have been accepted or established, those supported by the College of the Court of Justice in which the proposed candidates were elected. So, the DS is very principled, for the law and constitution of the prescribed reasons, contesting part of the proposal for a decision on the choice of judges in the Serbian judiciary. So that we do not only dispute and that our opposition is not politicised, we offer proposals, we offer an initiative. We are offering a proposal that the Committee for the Justice of the Serbian Parliament, in accordance with its laws of law, in accordance with the constitutional position, make an initiative to discuss all three branches of the government, in order to change the situation in the judiciary, in order to make it more effective and to ensure that the protection of citizens' rights is as good as possible, more complete and more quality. We want professional selection to be carried out, to be chosen by the criteria of expertise, according to the criteria of efficiency in study, the quality of study, based on the results of their works, but also on their personal characteristics, that they are brave and able to resist any external pressure in judging in the judicial matters and objects that belong to them. As far as professional selection is concerned, the first step of professional selection is the inability to enter non-quality judicial personnel, to start professional selection in the High Council of Justice itself, when proposing candidates not to propose candidates who will be subject to corruption, influences or who will be unprofessional and incompetent to work, to choose the highest quality, and then, given the inability of judges, to write down criteria by which judges will be questioned. I expect the Supervisory Board, which is now overcrowded with cases due to a large number of complaints about the work of judges, to be as effective in its work as possible and to propose a list of judges who do not satisfy their own quality to be judges. I will be very happy to discuss with you the work of these judges based on objective indicators and to clear the judiciary of those who do not belong there. In this way, we will best prevent political influence in concrete decision-making by subject and prevent judges from working beyond the law and constitution. I believe that the president of the Committee has accepted the initiative, I hold it in my hands and expect that in the coming period we will have one session on the work of the High Council of Justice and that we will receive better quality work from the High Council of Justice. I want to point out another fact that we all agreed on on the Justice Committee, that the High Council does not have enough of the public to work. It seems to me to be one of the few state authorities whose work the public knows nothing about. What is his plan of work, what are the issues that the High Judicial Council is dealing with, what is the pace of working in the High Council of Justice? All this should be notified to the public, and, above all, the committee in charge, in order to be prepared and discussed in good time, should establish the position of this Parliament on certain issues relating to the work of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6399	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS advocates a full and thorough reform of the judiciary. The promoter has come out to propose before the Republic Assembly and before this parliament to elect fifty-something judges. The first thing was to determine - how many judges the Republic of Serbia has today, compare that number of judges with EU countries. The example is England, which has, according to my knowledge, 1.629 judges, and the Republic of Serbia has more than 2,500 judges, as far as I know. It is important to establish the quality of the work of our courts and to do everything to make our judiciary independent. Our judiciary has been thrown into the political arena in recent years. No argument can be given that no one on the side can influence the work of the courts. It is an example of the "Sabbe" action, the role and responsibility of the judiciary in the "Sabbe" action, which arrests about 12,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for which, according to my knowledge, there are no more than 100 and some criminal proceedings, no indictments, no convictions. What is the responsibility of the judicial authorities here? Major damage has been done to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, heavy damage has been done to the Republic of Serbia, as most of these citizens will one day seek compensation, and that compensation will not be small. It can't happen that 35 people are arrested in an oil affair, and there's no charge, there's been twice artificiality and there's been found to be no yellow bank damage to the state. First of all, in the "Sabbe" action, people were arrested, held for up to six months in prison, and there is no criminal trial, suspected of taking in 17m euros, because they illegally took in 28,000,000 liters of oil. It's an example I'm setting for you to understand how serious it is and how responsible it is for the holders of judicial functions. I think there's still a tendency to inflation people in the judiciary. Our judiciary needs to be reorganised so much that the number of courts and the number of judges will be reduced and the activity increased and the work of the Supreme Court strengthened. As far as I'm concerned, I believe that the Supreme Court should strengthen humanely, because it is the highest judicial instance, in which citizens of the Republic of Serbia have hope and trust to protect them from the illegal decisions of individual judges and individual courts. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the coming period of the Committee on Justice, whose member I am, must launch an initiative to carry out a detailed analysis of the work of all judges and all judges and public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. For each judge, it is necessary to determine how many cases there have been, since the date of the cases, when they were first introduced into the court's protocol, which the judge has worked on these cases, which cases in practice are the youngest judges to receive, and the practice is that precisely the most difficult cases and the most complex litigation, which were initiated 10 or 20 years ago, are being given new judges. It's the Supreme Court's case, which had to be resolved. Both the Supreme Court and the Supervisory Board should launch live activity and a sharp fight against such phenomena, and that in the judiciary those who did not deserve this honorable function, a high and significant function in our society, do not remain, because they share justice with our citizens. So in this direction and the Ministry of Justice, which takes certain measures, has to be even more active, it has to be even more on its own side, as much as the law allows, to have a certain role to play in the justice system. In practice, it is not so, and I expect that, in the next period, the Justice Committee will visit certain courts and make sure on the spot what is the situation, how many years have been conducted, how many judges have been suspended, how many have been confirmed and how modified. At the head of the judicial authorities came people whose checks have to be carried out urgently and see if they deserve to be run by a judicial authority, whether or not it is managed successfully, how many complaints about the work of the judicial authorities and so on. This has to come before the Justice Committee, and through the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Justice and the Supervisory Board. As for the election of judges, criteria have been established by the High Council for Justice, with the participation of the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice. However, in practice these criteria are not respected. These criteria must be crystal clear, in practice applicable and verified. When it comes to the Supreme Court, I will come back with a few sentences and say that the Supreme Court must be both humane and numerically, and financially more supported, as the highest instance that must control what the spirits do on the ground, according to municipal and county courts. If that is not the case, know that we will have lawlessness on the ground, that many citizens will be in custody. Even today, if it weren't for the Supreme Court, many would be arrested according to the "Sabbe" method. Fortunately, the Supreme Court has been dealing with detention cases urgently lately. It can't happen that a judge issues a solution to determining detention, locks the case in the closet and goes on vacation and the person is deprived of liberty, detained and no case, and is waiting for the judge to come from the annual vacation and unlock the closet. That's not allowed. Furthermore, when it comes to the fullness of the Supreme Court and the High Court of Commerce, more should be taken into account that judges of district courts, from Serbia, should also be represented evenly and elected to the Supreme Court. Not everything can be left to the Supreme Court and the Higher Trade Court to fill the personnel and most of them from Belgrade. There are now five out of 12, however, four are elected in the Higher Trade Court, and three are from Belgrade. The explanation of the Committee on Justice, whose member I am, is that this is because these people who come from the inside have a housing problem without being able to solve the housing issue. I will set an example of not respecting these criteria: from the District Court in Pančevo, which is 15 km away, you had candidates for the Martinović Nedeljka District Court, Mitrovica Ivana, etc. for the Smederevo District Court, Sremska Mitrovica, so nothing, so I do not think anything is being done in this direction, and mistakes are being made. Such mistakes should not be made and professional people should be chosen evenly. I'm telling you, there are a lot of professional people in the field, good and professional judges. I'll mention something else when it comes to the authorities of the judiciary and the judges. Could it, Ministers of Justice and Mr. President of the Supreme Court, be your judge the one who concluded the debate, and according to Article 337? The law on litigation must be drawn up within eight days. However, it's been a year or two, I'm not going to list it now, but I have information that there are no cases of convictions, so it's not made and it's not delivered to the parties. That's inadmissible. Efficient, celery and so forth must be strengthened and we must have judges who will obey the law. That I'm in a place where you're sitting, not one who violated Article 337. The law on litigation and which violated the Code of Criminal Procedure on Decision Making, did not deliver it to the citizens in time, did not write it for a year, in my opinion, he no longer has a place in the judiciary. What happens if someone gets the verdict that they owe the opposing party to compensate for the damages of a million dinars? There's been a verdict a year or two, and then what's the interest? Whose fault is that? It's the judge's fault. What we're going to do is make sure the public's prosecutors make unfounded demands to launch an investigation. The subject matter and its request are reached by an investigative judge, the investigation found that there is no room for proceedings, a request is rejected, a person is in custody, a great deal of skill is being performed, costs are being incurred by the state and the state apparatus, and there is no criminal offence. What do we do in cases like that? What I'm trying to say is that it's a lot of damage without paying any attention to it. Next, ladies and gentlemen, there must be less tourism in the judiciary. The minister of justice must go public and say how many consultations there were during the year, at which level and where - Vrnjaka Banja, Kopalnik, Zlatibor, Palic, Banja Koviljača and so on. He can't do that. There's no need for that in our society. Costs are huge. I don't mind if Mr. Judge goes to Zlatibor, and the Kopalnik, and Vrnjačka Banja, but let the apartment pay him, not the state. It's huge costs, and I think Mr. Secretary has that information, evidence, that it's big material assets. There must be savings. The budget can't be exhausted. It is better to focus these resources on improving the material position of judicial holders and all other judicial employees. One more thing - when it comes to court fees, I would suggest to the authorities of the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice that judicial fees go primarily to the increase in earnings and personal incomes of judges, prosecutors and all employees, not to go to the government's budget and leather bag, so that the funds are directed wherever they want, so that the minister of justice asks the Minister of Finance to grant him funds from taxis for the functioning of the judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6401	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6402	We're continuing our work. Please, before continuing to work, determine the quorum for work. I ask the Members to insert their cards into the MPs' units. By using the electronic system, I find that 90 MPs are present in the O.R. and we have the quorum needed to work. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. I would like to inform the MPs, because this is my obligation under the Rules of Procedure, that during the afternoon debate, it was pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure by the President. I'm obliged to give an explanation. I ask all Members of the People to do so in his presence when they bring up the breach of the Rules of Procedure by the President. I think it's a minimum of correctness. An objection to Article 79 has been made. Rules of Procedure. Of course, on this same occasion, I'm reporting a breach of article 100. Rules of Procedure - insult to the intelligence of the MPs. So all the MPs received an apology from the professional service. The professional service, when the three sessions were scheduled, for which adequate signatures were given, were: for the first 187, for the second 84 and for the third 84, when photocopying the annexes of the signature, permuted the list of 84 MPs, which is number 2908, since the first June, with the list on June 1st 2909. I guess no one's crazy enough, although it takes 84 to add a list of 187 MPs and make it a missing next list. A week before the beginning of the session, the professional service provided an apology and sent appropriate copies. I think that's a complete explanation. I guess it's a technical misunderstanding. I apologize to everyone, I hope you're satisfied with the explanation. The second remark was in relation to Article 163, there is talk of withdrawing points from the agenda. Article 163 states: "At an extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly is working on a predetermined agenda submitted by the applicant for holding an extraordinary session. The order of consideration of the agenda points cannot be changed without the agreement of the proposing representative, at whose request an extraordinary meeting is scheduled." Of course, the withdrawal of some points, without affecting order, is referred to Article 139 – the applicant can withdraw a point from the agenda. I thank everyone again. Mr. Krassic, I'm sorry to keep you waiting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6403	According to the morning course of the sittings and discussions heard about this item of the agenda, we should return the discussion to what was proposed, which is: consideration of the motion for a decision on the choice of judges. When the judges are elected, it is inevitable to ask whether this choice, or any choice of judges, raises the question of the independence and independence of the court and the independence of the judge's office. Something that makes an unbreakable whole with independence and independence, the judges are certainly issues, in our law defined as "experience and dignity". It is likely that other terms can be used in order to explain that there is no independence and independence if a judicial function is performed by a man who does not know the rules, does not know how to apply them, especially if he knows, so he tends to misapply them to the harm of one of the parties involved in these proceedings. Of course, out of expertise, character and moral, I must say, the character of this individual, whom we have authorized here to share justice, to act justly and justly, in accordance with the laws that we have passed, which this assembly has passed, depends on whether the citizen has the need to report to one instance and to seek the protection of one of his endangered rights. Therefore, all those discussions that arise in the matter of professions, morals, character, work so far, experience, and meet other issues of conditions and circumstances under which a judicial function is performed, deserve attention and the public should hear them. The public should hear why MPs feel that some candidates should not be chosen to be holders of judicial functions, because their work so far, experience, and especially some of their individual tendencies suggest that they cannot share justice properly, that they cannot share justice properly, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the regulations. No matter how hard someone tries to resent the High Council of Justice, especially with regard to the criteria they have developed, and with regard to the expertise and dignity of the elections, there are likely to be other criteria. But the choice of judges is not some mathematical problem, and it cannot be solved by the length of the job, by the average of the university or the coefficients of urgency, or by the number of abolished, altered and otherwise amended decisions of the judge concerned. It can't be because justice isn't even mathematical, which is not even mathematical. If we went to those peripheral cases of minus and plus, we'd see that these peripheral cases, which appear to be exceptions, question the basic rule. It is likely that we, as MPs, cannot have much influence, because that goes beyond our possibilities, but probably the possibilities of the entire judiciary, because they are entering the social structure of our country. What we have to say from this pay phone is about the High Council of Justice. When they changed the Law on Courts and passed new regulations on the regulation of courts and on the High Council of Justice, I'm sure no one had any idea or desire to make a half-private association of the High Council of Justice. He, by law and those other normative acts, is not. According to practice, according to the way it works and according to what's heard, and we can only find out what's going on at the High Council of Justice sessions, there's a lot of ground to believe that certain members of the High Council of Justice are working on the system "tossing their hands at half past six". An example of this is probably the fact that individual members are agreeing, so they say, if my candidate from that court passes, then I'll hire you to pass your candidate in that second court. Last year was an example that one of the members made it possible for his child to be elected judge or prosecutor, which in the end is not very important. What's important is that at that time, the government's representative, the minister of justice, was trying to convince us that he had nothing to do with it and that he heard it for the first time. Therefore, if these criteria are applied, it can be unmistakably concluded that a certain number of candidates do not meet the requirements of professionality and dignity to be elected as judge of the district, municipal or commercial court, or of a higher commercial court. The Serbian Radical Party has disputed the proposals, which are likely to be voted on in particular. What deserves special attention is that for the past three years, since the democratic transformation of our judiciary started, we have received unquality personnel, because someone on the side could come into the justice system, and that his expertise, in accordance with these criteria and this decision, is declared by the father. It's a situation where a legal intern, after a legal trial, of course with a father in a lawyer's office, after a certain time, when he meets the condition of a job internship, is proposed and elected here as a judge of the municipal court. So, the father gave an evaluation of the expertise of the candidate child. It is a similar situation, especially when judicial functions are chosen by persons who come outside the judiciary. I have to say, in the election of district court judges, including the High Court of Commerce and the Supreme Court, the logic has been applied that people who already work in the judiciary are coming to more judicial matters. That's good because we move an experienced man to a more responsible job, where his knowledge and experience should come to light. We had a situation here that someone, just because the president of the municipal court, who may have arranged a municipal court, in terms of the urgency and at all the work of that court, because he is now nervous and no longer able to deal with people, is proposed to be the judge of the county court. I don't think that's the kind of reason it could be. The nervousness itself, right now, shows that the criteria of dignity are not met. You've also put a spirit of tolerance here, a willingness to hear a different opinion, of course, when they're collegiately working, when they're in a larger decision on a complaint. Most of these criminal things in the county court are, in practice, things by appeal, where there are bigger ones where there are few of these search procedures. We objected here and pointed to shortcomings. It'll probably be the subject of a special vote. What I would particularly like to point out, because this pay phone is making excuses that someone is not influencing the choice of judges, I must say that for the past three years in any court that you have come to ask why this candidate, who is more indisputable than a senior judicial associate, has not been elected as a judge of the municipal court, and a lawyer's child, or some public prosecutor's associate, has been elected, you could hear the answer: so he bowed to that and that party. When you look at biographies, when you see work experience, when you look at these percentages and coefficients, some people will never be judges because they haven't bowed to anyone. Of course, when it comes to bowing, it is thought, above all, of those who are in power, regardless of what stages and which parties have created power. The attempt was to avoid it through the High Council of Justice, but it was obvious that it was a failed attempt, because someone from one party had moved to another, which was created by cleavage of the party, and immediately chose the position to be proposed, and now his first parent party comes out here and challenges his choice. Of course, it is easy to conclude that it is something that is an internal party matter. The natural flow of things wanted them to split into two parties. So the only characteristic and only evidence of expertise is that it was properly defined as belonging to a party. It's not just a problem with judges, it's also a problem with educational workers, because obviously, whoever wanted to be the director, the expertise was able to prove only the similarity and membership card of the relevant political party in power. This is especially because two and a half years ago this was the main reason to pass a new Law on Judges, a new Law on Court Order, to allegedly break the party's dependence on the judge, the president of the courts, from parties in power. As you can see, in these three years, it hasn't broken, it's just changed form. And what one said at the beginning of this session, identifying himself with local self-government, if someone with a name and a last name affects the court's staff policy, that doesn't mean, because he happens to be some kind of official in local self-government, that makes it local self-government. This identification of an individual with the authorities of local self-government is completely inappropriate, but it's a fact. I think we need to respect the reason that in certain courts, regardless of the systematization, courts come into a situation that they cannot form, or they can hardly form bigger ones that would consider complaints in criminal proceedings. That's one thing we must take care of. I don't think this part of the agenda should be a reason to open a bigger discussion about the situation in our judiciary, because it's complex, it's not just a legal issue, it's a sociological problem. From this pay phone, messages sent to citizens and holders of judicial functions should be heard more frequently, that the laws have no alternative and that the correct application of the law must be the most present in court, because if it is not there, then the question is asked, and why would anyone sue? The judges got exclusive law. Few can decide who's right, who's wrong, make and sign decisions that have binding power. Probably as religious people, we recognize who has the exclusive right, but a similar right to a lower degree is given to judges. That is why both the High Council of Justice and the Presidents of the Court, and all those who can in any way influence the work of the court, must have this in mind, because not only would it not be good, but it would be harmful to have an institution that does not provide effective protection. As soon as there are no institutions that protect vulnerable citizens' rights, alternatives are imminent. The alternative to the court is much more dangerous, more destructive and painful, and we are in a time of boom, and be sure, even greater bloom, organised crime, which will only change its forms, and be sure that it will have its representatives in financial circles, in the media, in the prosecution, in the police, and especially in the court, because only if there is a tentacle there, it is protected and can be organised crime in the fullest sense of that word. I call on all MPs to pay attention to these two criteria: expertise and dignity. The dignity can also be checked by entering the court, so from security, through the office, to the executive department, ask what kind of expert associate this is, ask what kind of judge this is? You will get incredible information and then you will understand why the Serbian Radical Party is against the election of these 10 people to judges in the courts for which the High Council of Justice has proposed them. I'd just like to advise the Chief Justice and Prime Minister to pay a little attention to this phenomenon that took place by forming the High Council of Justice. Believe me, he's become a semi-private institution of some do-ers, who performs judicial functions. They make arrangements before every session, and then no wonder we get these suggestions. And I'm not a representative of the opinion that if the district court didn't propose it, he shouldn't be elected. No, I don't. The High Council of Justice should have that independence. But if you have, if you have, the court's position and everyone else, who wonders about the election, in some way advisoryly, put it in this form, then insist that those opinions be obtained. Inhale the soul in that opinion, that you may know the strength of that opinion. This is how we get into a situation where on one occasion we see that the county court was right, but that two judges, who are members of the High Council of Justice, have pushed their will through the High Council of Justice and we have received such proposals. We immediately challenged it, not because of the procedure, to understand each other, but because of the fact that something strange is happening. Of course, there were also those opinions where they say, about this and that candidate, but also about other candidates. It's a broad opinion that gives absolute freedom and doesn't commit anyone to anything. I think the more people, when the first choice is made for judges, should come from the judiciary. The judge's office is a trade. It's all crafts. Absolutely, every human activity is crafty. By that we share in good and bad masters. Probably a good master judge nothing from court, from court structure, volunteer, intern, judicial associate, etc. Those who come from a lot of times should be given a chance not to deny the rights of citizens, but special attention should be paid, because evidence of expertise is probably obtained from incompetent persons, and whether it is a parent, when it comes to a lawyer, whether it is a relative, if there was a lawyer in a private company, etc. The problem is complex. We want to contribute, and I think we make a big contribution by pointing out which people we don't have to choose as judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6404	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6405	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. President, in my absence, you insulted me and said I was insulting the intelligence of the MPs and your intelligence. I have no intention, but I also do not allow you to insult my intelligence and my fellow MPs behind what I said about this speaker. You resented me for hurting the Rules of Procedure that referred to you in your absence, and you also commented in my absence what I said. So we're equal here, I guess. I couldn't look at the Bob when you'd be chairing the session. The session is running today, and it's probably gonna end today, so I couldn't leave it for tomorrow, because tomorrow we won't be sitting as long as I'm in progress. I want to go back to that breach of the Rules of Procedure and your answer that I offended someone's intelligence, because there's only been some kind of printing error or technical failure of the service. It's not nice, Mr. President, to put it all on Serbian Parliament officials, because it's the least of their faults. And if they're at least guilty, I'll take them for protection, of course, so I'll prove it to you now. I ask you nicely, when we make a proposal, and I mean the MPs of the SRS, you have in your drawer some list of MPs and some signatures of the MPs of the SRS, or we deliver it to the office. So we deliver it to the office. You know very well that's how you get it through the service. So the DSS MPs also sent you proposals and requests to convene an emergency session. No apologies. You didn't see that you didn't have 84 signatures, you scheduled a session, and two days later someone told you that or you realized it yourself. You have no doubt set this session against the constitution, and for which, of course, you are responsible. You are not solely responsible for us here, because the Assembly will plead, of course, whether there have been violations of the Rules of Procedure or not. There is someone else in this country who will determine whether the President of the Assembly is in violation of the Constitution. I'm sure it won't be hard for us to prove it. I don't expect any answers from you. For the sake of the public, I bring this up here and for the rest of my fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and I demand, once again, that the National Assembly be made aware of all this which, as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I have tried to explain behind this speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6406	Thank you. So, once again, I ask that the Rules of Procedure be respected, and I seek to respect it, and I will do so in the future. Every time, right. Every quote of the Rules of Procedure and the law is the same for everyone. Of course the MPs, everyone who signed the various proposals, once again, and that's an intelligence remark, so I didn't know it was you, I'm sorry, I really didn't have a part in the previous paper, so I had to deliver the signatures, and that's why the president's scheduled the sessions. Of course, that is why I asked the ministry, not to force any service, but rather to send its own correction for its error and to send it in due time. Of course, it's possible to move this session, as next, and it goes to the endless, which is absurd. Since three sessions were scheduled at the same time, there were double lists and it is very clear that the group of all 53 signatures of the DSS seconds before, you see in the order of seduction in the office, that it is present and present in the group of 187 MPs. Why would someone be so unintelligent to use that list and put it there and put a list where he needs 53 where he's missing? Of course no one would do that and of course when multiplying lists are separated, they're connected with a stapler, they're separated and they're given to multiplication, and you get these lists. That's why, too, there's a clearly in the header written when it's submitted, when it's being seduced in the office. The originals are present in the office and can be checked. Since an error was made during the multiplication, and five days before the session, the service had sent all MPs to see, and it is clear to all MPs, so I suppose no one could have this kind of remark so far. In case anyone has any objections, of course, check the office first. And if I had any objections, I'd check the office and that's my explanation. If you are not satisfied with this explanation, I ask the Assembly to plead in the voting day. I can't give the information in my jurisdiction. In my jurisdiction, I've scheduled a session, because I've had enough signatures, and that's obvious. I also had enough signatures for the first session, which is also obvious, over 90 extras, and I had for the third session that I also scheduled 84 MPs. It's mine to take care of. Since I had this insight, I've scheduled the sessions, and I apologize, I can't really answer for what the service has already apologized to the MPs and I thank them for that. Here you go, Gordana Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6407	Mr. President, I really cannot allow the impression that I am telling the truth, because this draft agenda here next to the seal stands the signatures of 84 MPs, it says 84 MPs, and there are 83 MPs here. I don't know what you read when you schedule sessions, but you'd have to do it. You or someone else. Please, this memo you sent us with the correct, supposedly, signatures, 84, where there's a shelter press here, which is general with the MPs, who, please. Just you, Mr. President, everything that comes here comes through you to the MPs. This act is not being seduced anywhere. These signatures weren't taken anywhere. I can't put in an amendment, or anything as a National MP, by bringing you into your office, but I have to go to the office of the Assembly to hand it over and get the water stamp, and get that act in the delivery book. I really don't know what this paper is. He's nothing to me. So I don't care if you accept whether I'm right or wrong. I want the truth to be known here, and I'm telling you, we're not going to stop and stop just because the Assembly decides whether you've broken the Rules of Procedure or not, because you can always form a congregation majority to decide anything. There is someone else in this country who hopefully will question this and make a valid decision whether you have violated the Constitution or not, and whether you have misused your function or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6408	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, since you have clearly stated from this statement that I did not violate the Constitution, because you say – the office is being seduced by the sealing accuracy of the data, you have just read what I have read, seduced and printed, the accuracy of the data they write. Obviously, that doesn't fit. I asked what this was, so I got the same answer as you, because I'm an MP like you. That technical correction was sent. Of course, I acted exactly on the seal that guarantees that an 84-seat request was received, and I don't know what the dispute is. I would like to inform you that there are no more reports on the lists of MPs. You want to follow the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6409	If we wanted to make "max to the end" we'd find something that's identical in the session last week. I accidentally found the envelope, I didn't throw it away, there's no 187 signatures, as it says in the summary, there's 186, and there's one missing from the radicals. No one was making a problem about it being a tragic mistake because one signature means – more or less.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6410	Please, we told you where there was a technical error, it's not a dispute. Thank you. Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak? No, I don't. Thank you. Before I give the final word, I am obliged to read the letter received by the Assembly, sent to the Secretary General. During his discussion, the MP, Mr. Bosko Ristic, said about ten minutes ago that the County Court in Sapac did not give its opinion on the election of judges for the District Court in Sapac. In addition to the reactions, we submit a letter to the District Court in Šapec, the number and the one referred to the High Council, which shows that the County Court in Sapac has proposed to the High Council of Justice that the following judges be elected to the District Court, and the names of judges are listed. But that memo is with the minister, and it was my duty to inform the public on that basis. There was another correction by Mr. Novakovic. Before I conclude a unique search of the proposal, does the motionary's representative want a final word? The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6411	As a minister and a member of the High Council, I would like to make some explanations regarding certain allegations from today's discussion. First of all, I would like to thank all the MPs for today's discussion. Indeed, she was far more specific, more precise and clear than this one regarding the election of deputy prosecutors. It is a special pleasure to me that there have been far fewer policies and more professional discussions. After Mr Krasic's discussion, I won't have to explain a part of it, because I will agree immediately with him, that the judiciary is one complex thing and that there are indeed so many problems and things that are important to this society and that we have to solve. I will answer only some of the allegations that are clearly incorrect, and I think this assembly, before deciding, should meet them. The High Council of Justice is a body that is definitely deciding on proposals and these changes, the possibility of the executive authority being able to influence candidate proposals, which I think is a step forward. After all, that is also the Council of Europe, whose members we have become, assessed. We can eventually argue with Mr. Krasic's allegations about the composition. He may not be the best, but I think he'll make it right eventually and get to the proper High Council composition. Here it is also said that it is an unconstitutional category. I have to say, that's not true, because the Constitutional Court has been discussing this issue and assessing it as constitutional. The Constitutional Court assessed it as an unconstitutional category of so-called A council for the administration of the judiciary. I will not state the reasons why he found it constitutional, to choose a larger number from the courts and therefore that it is possible for the courts themselves to decide on all their relevant issues. The second thing that's said here, which I can't agree with, and not members of the High Council, is that the situation in the judiciary is bad and it's going to stay that way. The situation in the judiciary is bad, in the courts it is bad, but it is caused by the previous functioning of the authorities on that condition. It's been heard here a lot of times in the discussion that they've been brought along by some strange criteria of people without expertise, without experience, etc. It's the composition the courts have today. But I think there's a chance that we can make it right and we're doing everything we can to do it, first of all, we're going to systemize the entire area normally, and I think that this country, after a long time, is going to get in this sphere of so-called. the legislative regulation of that area of state matter. There's going to be that other problem that's being talked about here, which is the composition of the court. To tell you the truth, I'm a little surprised by some discussions, because you have such a claim – that candidates from the court should be elected; okay, that might sound like a valid starting point, in the fact that it's about people who are professionals, they should be good craftsmen, etc. But what about that previous finding that the situation was ruined? How to change that condition, if from the same environment and from such people only from these environments you choose people, so you can hardly change them. That's why we thought it would take a certain number of people to get to the side. At the same time, you hear others need to come on the side, because the situation in the judiciary is like this. So, two completely conflicting opinions. We took care of all these things when we decided. I have to tell you, this is the first time that the judiciary has passed the written criteria by which they will make their choice, just to avoid any subjectivity in proposing candidates. It may not be the best criteria, but it's the first time we have to stick to. Also, there are certain things that the judges must possess. I've heard, for example, as with Mr. Ristic, a large number of traits the judge should have, but I haven't heard anywhere, most important to me, which is that he has to be an honest man. From the first day I came, I said that the holders of judicial functions must be honest, working, professional and that the issue of their political commitment does not matter. We've heard a lot of things here, but I haven't heard this thing. This is what I'm saying, here's why. There are some facts here that are not true. One of these is now read. People should not be elected because the municipal court in Capco did not give an opinion. It's not true at all, here, we own it, he gave an opinion. Also, it has been said that a man should not be chosen because the Shabac Bar Association did not give an opinion. Take the law and our Council's rule, it's been said that they'll demand the opinion of the bar. It's a matter of chamber whether he delivers an opinion or not. Thirty chambers delivered, and the others didn't. They didn't find it appropriate to deliver an opinion. So it's a good will chamber to deliver. We respected ours. Here it is deliberately said, for the simple reason that the Assembly should know. I'm talking about a key factor, and that's honesty. Professionalism is also a significant element. But even when he's not fully represented, it's not a problem. People who have no experience, if they're honest and working, will eventually gain proper expertise. The problem is if it's unfair, there's no correction. We, first of all, based on that criterion, then the next one. Here it is said - no one knows in the bar, so the Bar Association gave no opinion, so there is no knowledge of man. I'll tell you, I think the Grill is called a man who's already done the job of the Supreme Court Judge, because he was one of the best judges of the Supreme Court in Pristina, he's considered one of the best theorists, one of the best experts. After he had to flee from Kosovo, he formally applied to Valjevo, not to Šapco, and he essentially does not want to work as a lawyer except to represent our poor Kosovo day and day and defend them. So we've been checking it out. We got an opinion. We were even lucky that one of the current Supreme Court judges was a man who tried with him in Pristina, so we obtained that opinion. So it's not true what's been brought out. It's a similar case with Judge Okic. What I said, I can express a special pleasure here, because I personally don't know those people, except that I came to trial. It's a special pleasure to have had the opportunity to see the judges by my standards, what the judge should look like. Let me also point out that before leaving Croatia, Judge Okic, the husband to whom he was transferred, was the judge of the district court at the time, so after his escape, he came to the municipal court and progressed in a regular procedure. It's about honest, honest and professional people. No real valid argument is highlighted here. The apostle Ristic tried to offer one, so he said it would not be right for a husband who is V.d. to decide on a possible request for an exemption from his wife. President. This is resolved in the process, but to make it easier: if a wife is elected to another court, that objection does not stand. On the contrary, if you had not been chosen, we could have debated the matter. I would pray for one thing that is important to me, after five monitorings the Council of Europe has given the last, you are all familiar with it, so it has been found that progress has been made in this area, at least when it comes to Serbia as a state. There are remarks that no constitution has been adopted, so you can't get the whole thing, but it's been found that progress has been made and a serious objection has been made, and it's related to a number of people who are now appearing with similar arguments, to challenge candidacys. Point 26 of the last monitoring is said to be such a guess - we will not choose here unless you choose two of us in Belgrade and the two of us in Novi Sad, that the legislator has violated the de facto constitution and independence and independence of the prosecution. For these reasons, I hope that all of you, and I have the impression that we will all stick to it, take care of all these arguments and make that right choice. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6412	Thank you. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. Having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision, on the contested proposals under Article 175(4). Rules of Procedure, and then on all other undeniable proposals in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – THE CHOICE AND THE NAME OF THE PRESIDENT AND MEMBERS OF THE ORGANE AND THE BODY OF THE STRENGTH LAWS For this item of the agenda, you have received: - a proposal for a decision on the selection of the president and members of the Securities Committee, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and - a list of candidates for the selection of members of the Republic of the conflict of interest, which was submitted by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. You have received an amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Securities Commission. I remind you that according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group is as follows: SRS – one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, DSS – one hour, DS – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, SPO-New Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, SPS – 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs and three NDS MPs, five minutes each, based on Article 89. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consent to Article 156. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search, noting that the National Assembly will specifically decide on a proposal for a decision on the selection of the President and members of the Securities Commission, and in particular on each candidate from the proposed list of candidates for members of the Republic Committee for Dispute Resolution of Conflict of Interest. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6413	Dear colleagues, I really don't want to keep the session going and that you think I'm misusing the pay phone, but I have to notice that this session is completely unprepared, that we're doing it chaoticly and completely contrary to our rules of procedure. The only session that was prepared, which was scheduled as a third, although it was to be scheduled as the first, in order to receive the acts, is that session concerning the Resolution that no one should remain from the war damage claim, but unfortunately, the president gave himself the right to be the third session instead of being the first in this part of the session. Reporting in accordance with Article 96. Rules of Procedure, because that's what I'm entitled to, and I'm advertising a breach of Article 135. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the final position, which states that unless the committees and the government deliver reports, or opinions, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without them or set a new deadline within which they are obliged to do so. You know very well that the Finance Committee did not meet to consider this item of the agenda, it was not a lack of quorum. Simply, the MPs didn't want to sit down and talk about it, obviously aware that it was just another instrument in the hands of the G17 plus, who keeps all the finances in this country under his own paw. As they saw in the proposal for the president of the Committee of Papers of Mr. Stimac, they probably gave up on even talking about it. You know very well that the Finance Committee, like all other committees, paints the strength of all political parties in this House. We don't have any reports from the board, so since we don't have any reports, this sea assembly at this point, before we start discussing this agenda point, to make a statement, as the Rules of Procedure says, to decide that the bill is not a law but a decision, but it is, however, considering it without them. If we decide not to discuss this without a report from the board, we have nothing to discuss. So let's get serious once and work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask for this first, but if the Assembly decides to discuss this, I ask you, what is this new act that we have received, what is this amendment, and who is it that is asking for the amendment to be discussed by emergency procedure? It's not in our rules of procedure. The Serbian government is telling us something that is not in line with our rules of procedure. In addition, the Government is asking us for an emergency procedure in this first act, not to explain an emergency procedure. Should the President of the Assembly have returned this motion to the government and asked to make it in accordance with our rules of procedure? Please, and there are some rules in the local community, you know how to do things, and don't make imbeciles out of us. We have been in parliament for many years, we are able to read the rules of conduct of this Rules of Procedure, and if the President of the Assembly is unable to lead this assembly the way it should be run, in accordance with the constitution, the law and the rules of procedure, let him say it nicely. There are 249 other MPs here who would do it better than him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6414	Thank you. I'm obliged to give an explanation. This is not a local community, this is a Serbian Parliament and, please, let's not call each other again. A moment ago, President, when it is an extraordinary session, it only schedules maintenance time rather than counting signatures, but at the request of the MPs it does so. So, let's not mix grandmothers and frogs. Article 159 clearly states – if the committees in charge do not submit reports within the specified time limit, the draft law may be reviewed in the National Assembly without a report from the Committee. Also, you have received this and the explanation is in the act that has arrived, and it is said: the reasons for making an emergency decision, in accordance with the provisions of Article 253(2). The law, the selection of new members should be made within 10 days... And so on, that's the explanation that was given when the material was divided. I ask the messengers to store the materials and read them. There is a word by the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Pop Lazic, since she is not satisfied with the explanation of this will be declared by the Assembly. Now Mrs. Pop-Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6415	I want to stick to it because I don't want you to insult my intelligence right now. I have made it clear that I want you to put to the vote, in accordance with Rule 135 of this Rules of Procedure, whether MPs accept that they are discussing this item of the agenda regardless of the fact that we do not have a report from the board. I'm saying again, and I don't know what you've been up to, there's no explanation for an emergency procedure. I'm contesting an emergency procedure. Mr. President, what you've just read is in the emergency room, and what I said about article 135 refers to the course of the session in an emergency session and the provisions of the members that apply to what kind of acts can come into the process here. Please, if you don't put this to a vote right now, I'm asking the Assembly to declare whether you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure now. You can't do whatever you want. You have no discretionary right to decide what is to be put to the vote and what is not. We don't decide everything in voting day. I don't know how to draw this for you to understand what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6416	Mrs Pop-Lazic is right, I read article 159 concerning emergency proceedings, and you are right, and it says: "If the committees do not submit a report within the specified time limit, the draft law can be searched in the National Assembly and without a report from the board." This refers to an emergency procedure, so let me say once again that we are not mumbling but reading in the National Assembly -- it is the reason for making the decision by emergency procedure, which was referred to by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 16 July. That's why I asked the MPs to keep the materials, and that says, "In accordance with the provisions of Article 253(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law, the election of new members, should take place within 10 months of the date of entry into force of the law. Since that deadline has expired, it is necessary to, in accordance with Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the decision to elect a new president and members, by emergency procedure, so that the Securities Commission can act in accordance with the law." Since it is an explicit request for an emergency procedure, members of the Rules of Procedure relating to an emergency procedure shall apply. I don't see what's unclear about it. I thank and ask if the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word. No, I don't. ) Once again, he has the word of Parliamentarian Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6417	Please, Mr. President, the ninth chapter under discussion by the National Assembly's extraordinary session and the rules of work of this House during an extraordinary session in four members speaks of how we should work in an extraordinary session. In the last article, he said, "The provisions of this Rules of Procedure for a regular sitting shall apply at an extraordinary meeting, if the provisions of this chapter are not otherwise specified." Please, it is not different, and you are obliged to apply Article 135, the final position, which requires the obligation to put to the vote whether MPs want to discuss this item of the agenda without a position and without the opinion of the Finance Committee. It's not about insignificant things, don't make fun of all the things we do today in parliament, what I'm trying to prove to you at the pay phone, because the adverse consequences are enormous.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6418	Thanks again. Please pay attention, I'm obliged to give an explanation. I suppose there is a confusion in the language, which I will read of course, and Mrs Pop-Lazic has listed a member by whom I am acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, who says: "The provisions (and now this is an extraordinary sitting) of this Rules of Procedure are applied in an extraordinary sitting (which is what you pay attention to, therefore, not the procedure but the sitting), if the provisions of this Rules of Procedure are not otherwise defined. "The provisions of the Rules of Procedure on a regular session shall treat an emergency procedure, and, accordingly, under Rule 159 on an urgent procedure, and on the basis of Rule 165, which says that even during the extraordinary session, provisions on regular sitting have been applied, of course, to the situation of applying Article 2 of Article 159 which says, if the Committee does not arrive, the Assembly shall act without those opinions. I don't know how else to do it except stick to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. He's looking again for Mrs. Pop-Lazic's word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6419	Mr. President, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party will allow you to discuss in our absence the remaining agenda point and to finish the session, completely unprepared, completely contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We no longer want to participate in this non-existent session, and I ask the Assembly to declare in the voting day whether the President of the National Assembly has violated the Rules of Procedure, by not putting the Assembly to the vote on my request whether the Assembly wants to continue its work without the report of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6420	Thank you. We're continuing our work. (Serb Radical Party emissaries leave the hall at 16.37 pm. I ask if representatives of parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party. The first has the word of MP Jovan Todorovic, and let the People's MP Veroljub Arsic prepare for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6421	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, if this amendment had not come to the government, probably no one would have talked about the motion for a decision to elect members of the Securities Commission. When I saw this proposal, or amendment adopted today, on August 19th, by the Government, and signed by Mr Labus, I was forced to come out on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group and say this: I am fragrant and surprised, however you will, that Professor Labus allowed himself, as a respected professor of the university, to sign this proposal. We obviously also have a procedural problem, and now I'm talking fundamentally about how to come up with the composition of the Securities Commission. If we exempt Mr. Štimec, who was not disputed in the original proposal as the future president of this commission, then the composition of this commission actually imposes on me a dilemma and a question: is it not that in the state of Serbia, which has drawn up so many experts in the area of banking, in the field of values, we have no experienced people, specialists and experts in this area? It's just amazing to me that we, the man who spent five years in some law firm, who just passed a judicial exam and who has absolutely no experience in the field of securities of value, are appointed to the commission, or to propose it. So, to propose to a man whose characteristics are – educated, young and politically active – in the composition of the Securities Commission. This insults the dignity of this home. Is this now due to some political compromises, agreements, etc., I don't know. But in the data that we got, and that someone had laid down B, C, and even A category, since 1989, has this been a contest for a man of honor, for one who would wear a motorcycle mail, which is driven by a category A license, or was it a choice of a man who was supposed to create a policy in the field of securities of value? Value charters are an extremely important area for the economic, primarily the financial system of every country, including ours. There are also shares, and bonds and records of any kind. If we were to ask one of these candidates now to draw us a note, as one of the basic forms of paper of value, I'm sure he couldn't do it. What is the recommendation that someone worked in the import-export house and sold raw materials for the production of detergents and worked in the Securities Commission? So these are the reasons why I went out for this pay phone, because I'm sure that in my Password, I would find four people who are so much more likely to do this job. Is it possible that we forgot that once the president of the Securities Commission was one of the biggest experts in the area, and that was Professor Dabic, like many others? We're kind of making some kind of compromises that don't lead to anything. What does it mean to be a member of the city government until the Together Coalition comes out of that city government and with it all the Democrats? What's this about? I think that, for the sake of dignity of this home, we should have this agenda point proposed that we withdraw, and urgently, not to embarrass ourselves. I don't mind any of these people, I don't even know any of them personally. But I can't understand that this kind of important state business is what we want to believe in people who are laymen in that area. Young, educated and politically active, it can also be an actor. It could also be a dramatist, for example, if Jovanovic could be on this securities commission. Please get serious and we do serious state affairs in a serious way. I can never vote for a proposal like this. The Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will not declare this because it does not deserve the attention of this home. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6422	I thank Jovan Todorovic. According to the list of speakers, the word should now be given by Veroljub Arsic, but as I notice it is not in the hall, nor Zoran Krasic, nor Momir Markovic. Is anyone answering for a word? For the word, it appears, on behalf of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6423	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have received an amendment to the proposal for a decision to elect a president and a member of the Securities Commission. I feel obliged to repeat once again the position we unequivocally made three days ago. Our position remained the same that it was not principled to be a finance minister from the same political party, and governor of the National Bank and president of the Securities Commission. So, without any personal relationship, with respect to Mr. Schimtz's expertise, we do not trade our political views. That attitude of ours remained the same. That attitude was the same the day before yesterday, that's how it was today. In the proposal for an amendment to the Government, it is proposed that Mr Bajec be a member of the Commission. Mr. Bajec is a member of the Democratic Party. Very clearly, because of the public, I would like to point out that the Democratic Party will not support the Commission's proposed composition, because it is absolutely conflicting with our principled position. Therefore, the President of the Commission, the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the National Bank cannot be from the same party, because it is absolutely in principle unsustainable that within one party all powers relating to financial flows in one country, regardless of what the party is called, independent of what party it is. It's not about any political bickering, it's about a principled attitude that the Democratic Party cannot give up on. We will not trade our views. This is not the proposal we're going to make, and we can't support it. We were very clear, explicit in our views. Financial flows in one state cannot be in the hands of a political party. The Democratic Party, regardless of whether the government proposes four members, of the five members of the Democratic Party, that everyone, except the president of the Democratic Party, is unacceptable to us, because we cannot and will not trade with our political views. We're against a proposal like this. Such an attitude is not personally motivated. Such an attitude is not a political attitude. Such an attitude is the only healthy, only normal and only possible attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6424	Thank you, Bojan Pitiæ. I'm sorry to be in a situation right now that I have to say one sentence, and there's no one to replace me at the chair table. A trade, attempted by the government, between the two sessions, to form a Securities Commission by being members of the Democratic Party, without agreement with the parliamentary majority, shows that it cannot be proposed, put on the agenda and discuss it in the republic's parliament. The Socialist Party of Serbia, and I confirm that, will not vote for this commission. I apologize for misusing my place, but I haven't been able to come to the pay phone, I've already said why. Anyone else answer for a word? The word has the head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, Mr. Goran Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6425	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this time I won't blame the chairman for breaking the Rules of Procedure. Still, I want to make a point. I'm worried about something else much more, which is that we have almost the same argument by the Democratic Party as by the Serbian Radical Party, as by some fog people in this country through some media, who control this country. No one has the ambition to control anything in this country, but to take responsibility for some things being arranged and that this country finally gets the institutions that function and finally be a normal country that goes in the right direction. I would not say that, just as a political stance from the Democratic Party, they raised the issue of the Securities Commission. I'm afraid that there are also some interests behind the political stance that the value paper market is not working and that it stays as it is, that is, to be chaotic as it is today. I think it's a lot more of an interest behind a political stance than a classical political stance put forward by a political party. I don't want to speculate any more about this. I agree that the Serbian government should co-ordinate and better prepare the proposal than it has prepared, I expect it to do in the coming days. I believe that the MPs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will then be able to speak out loud and clear about what they think. In any case, Mr. Schimtz's expertise is unquestionable. As if expertise is the least important thing for a place in the Securities Commission. Is it really important that we put a political position above the expertise, above what the President of the Securities Commission should provide through the work of the Commission and what it should provide through work that will finally regulate the securities market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6426	Thank you. The replica was reported by the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club, Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6427	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. That, which cares about stability in this country, whether the Democratic Party cares about stability in this country, has shown by voting for most of the laws proposed by this government. We voted in favour of those laws that we thought contributed to stability in this country. If stability in this country brings only an MP from a single parliamentary group headed by the Securities Commission, if there is no qualified economist in this country to be at the head of the Securities Commission, then I accept that we are against such stability. If stability is to come from one political party to the finance minister, to come from one political party to the governor of the National Bank, if it is stability to come from that same political party and the president of the Securities Commission is of value, if it is stability for a group of party colleagues to control all the financial flows in this country, we are against such stability. We have a completely different name for that kind of stability. Such a metaphor and such comparison of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group and the Serbian Radical Party are very offensive. I very much chose words when I spoke of our principled position, that it was impossible and that we would never agree that one political party controlled all the financial flows in this country. Whether this coincided with the position of any political party or any media at the moment, we absolutely don't care. Did the government propose some members of the Democratic Party at the Securities Committee, we absolutely do not care. If you think the fight against monopoly on financial flows in this country is a struggle for instability in this country, then we are the only one for instability in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6428	Thank you, Bojan Pitiæ. Do any of the MPs present themselves in the Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Milko Stimac called for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6429	Thank you. What makes me particularly happy is that my name here as a name no one questions. I thank all my colleagues. I heard that from a colleague from the Serbian Radical Party. Personally, I consider it one big cartoon in my CV here in the Assembly. This is about another thing. It's not about whether one party has given people key positions. You'll let me take a step back, to how the G17 plus formed as an NGO. In fact, first as a group of 17 economists, then as an NGO G17 plus and then as a political party. It was created just as a set of people from different professions who wanted to make political decisions, because they saw that those who make political decisions don't know what they're doing or do it in a carad way, with the obligation to respect all colleagues in all political parties and politics as a trade, but that's our history. I can't now, without reacting to the remark that G17 plus controls or monopolies all financial flows or capital flows in Serbia. That's just not true. Capital flows in Serbia control people from the shadows. I said something nobody knew, right? That's what this is about. We have been fighting this since October 2000, against it as a group of 17 economists and after G17 plus we have been fighting since the winter of 1996-1997. I know most of you are fighting it. There's nothing controversial about it, but don't honor us to monopolize the financial flows, because that's not true. Let's turn around. What truly proven affair is behind Radovan Jelasic? What difference does it make what a member of G17 plus? Look what he's done as a man, as an expert, here as governor. What truly proven affair is behind Labus or Mladjan Dinkic? There, they're members of G17 plus. Is that a sin? I'm also a member of G17 plus and I'm not running away from it. That, too, I find a nice line in my CV. If that's an obstacle to doing a job, I'll back off, that's not the problem. I agree that there are a number of other experts to be found in the Securities Committee or in the Commission’s advice on securities of value to be formed. It's not that controversial either. There is also Professor Bosko Zivkovic, there are younger staffs. It's ungrateful to list. I can leave someone out. There's Šoškić, etc. It is important at this point to establish an institution of the Securities Commission. At this point it's not an institution, it's a provision. It's made by five people. Also, I have no doubt of their good will and their expertise at all. But they don't have institutional capacity, because they're set up by the government's decision. Meanwhile, a new law has entered into force, the Securities Market Act, which requires the Securities Commission to appoint the Assembly. And only from such a decision can the commission draw up its institutional capacity and do what needs to be done, regulate Serbia's capital market. That's what must be the first and the initial step.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6430	Mr. Squishy, you've been over a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6431	I'm sorry. So, once again, we need to handle it and, first of all, that. Let's not talk about what party is monopolying. G17 plus doesn't monopolies anything but reform and fire for reform, which is why we pay the price in ratings, but my God. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6432	Thank you. Replica - Bojan Pajtic, misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6433	For colleagues who are new to this session, in the misreading of the previous speaker, the Rules of Procedure regulates the right to replication and the Vice President has completely legitimately given me that right. So we supported Mr. Schimtz in his previous meeting for the position he was in. We also supported Mr. Dinkic, and Mr. Djelic for the position they were in, but we never accepted anyone taking over the entire financial vertical in this country. That's unprincipled, that's insane. If you claim to have, and indeed there are many economic experts in this country, then it is more natural for Professor Zivkovic or someone else to lead the commission, not just to be the MP of one political party, so only he can and only that is stability if he heads the commission. So our remark is completely principled. Our remarks were like that the last time the government submitted an identical proposal. We didn't want to be there for the vote, I'm undermining it. I don't know why my discussion is causing so much anxiety. I really don't know if that position means any interest, which is why so much anger from the parliamentary group I'm talking about. We, as a principled opposition party, supported Mr Markovic as the president of the National Assembly, who was from G17 plus, although there was no coalition agreement or any other agreement, we were fully consistent, believing that Mr Markovic was a good solution for this place, and also a member of the G17 Plus Vice President voted for Mr Markovic. This time, very simply, such a principle that someone is controlling the entire financial sphere in this country is simply not good for the country's economy, is not good for the country's economic life, is not good for this country's political life, without any euphoria. It is precisely that the arguments you have used are in favour of the fact that if there are good experts, and I note that the opposition to the National Bank of Serbia has been, that it cannot be a politician at its head, but should be an expert at its head, it is also with the Securities Commission. And so far he has not been president of the Committee of Papers of the Value of Politicians, but has been a professional person. It's a very bad principle and it's a very bad way to go. First in the election of the governor of the National Bank and now with the president of the Securities Commission. Which is why such tenacity, which is why for the second time a proposal that did not have enough majority in this House, is why insisting on something that does not have minimal consent, at least the relative majority of MPs in this House. Which is why such violence against the MPs of this House. You're right, the G17 plus doesn't control the financial flows of this country, it doesn't control them completely, it doesn't control them at least until the Assembly makes this decision that is now in front of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6434	I thank Mr. Pitiæ. For the sake of the public, of course, I just have to make a correct correction. The assembly has never spoken of this proposal, please, so that we don't have the wrong impression, the lapus, I understand, the proposal has been withdrawn, the assembly has never declared itself to this proposal. Here, excuse me, please, Mr. Pitiæ's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6435	Mr. President, it's just an explanation, since we didn't get along well. There were no majority of MPs and most of the parliamentary groups were not behind the proposal, and now it does not stand. So it didn't come out. It's off the agenda. Even now, it probably won't come out, because I don't see how a decision like this could be voted on.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-19-0.u6436	I thank you for your joint finding that this has not been stated by the Assembly. Is there anyone else registered? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to hear the question? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the election and appointment of the president and members of the bodies and bodies established by law in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I hereby appoint Tuesday 24 August 2004, at 9.45 p.m. as a voting day. Thank you. I'm finishing today's work. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 185 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that more than 130 MPs are present in the hall and that, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has completed reviewing all points of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE RADIO-DIFUSION LAW After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Radio-Difusion in principle. For 144 against 31, they did not vote three, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that Parliamentarian Ljiljana Nestorović, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, withdrew the amendment to Article 1 which lodged on 18 August 2004, at 10.05 hours, and that at 13,10 a.m. on the same day, she submitted a new amendment to Article 1. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Lazarevic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proposer adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 81, abstention 21, was not voted 18, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proposer adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 79, there was no 18 vote, a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 150, five, a total of 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, with corrections, was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proposer adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 82, a abstentioned one, was not voted 22, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zarko Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 132 abstentions, 22 did not vote 5, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proposer adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 86, with 52 abstentions, six out of 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proposer adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 83, 22, a total of 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio-Difusion in general. For 144, against 35, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Radio Diffusion Act. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a JUDGE DECISION After the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. Since the MPs and the Committee on Justice and Administration have challenged a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice, or suggest that these candidates be not elected, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 175(4), The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal, and then on any other undeniable proposals in general, by public vote. Accordingly, we move on to a decision on contested proposals. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Miodrag Brkljac, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Miodrag Djidic and Bosko Ristic, as judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. For 20, against 128, a abstentioned one, was not voted 35, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Miodrag Brkljak as judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Nevenka Okic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Miodrag Djidic and Bosko Ristic, to judge Serbia's Supreme Court. For 136, against four, two abstentions, 39 did not vote, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Nevenka Okic as Serbia's Supreme Court Judge. I am putting forward a proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Milomir Nikolic as Serbian Supreme Court Judge, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Miodrag Djidic. For 136, against eight, two abstentions, 35 did not vote, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Milomir Nikolic as judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ljubinka Stanisavljevic for the judge of the Municipal Court in Bolovac, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Verica Radet. For 146, against 35, a abstentioned one, was not voted by two, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ljubinka Stanisavljevic as judge of the Municipal Court in Boljevac. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Radoslav Simic for the judge of the District Court in Jagodina, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration and People's MPs Miodrag Djidic and Bosko Ristic. For 19, against 123, two abstentions, were not voted 40, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Radoslav Simic as judge of the District Court in Jagodina. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Mirjana Vojnovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Verica Radet, as judge of the District Court in Jagodina. For 121 against 31, he did not vote 31, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mirjana Vojinovic as judge of the District Court in Jagodina. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Lekovic for the District Court judge in Kragujevac, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Miodrag Djidic and Bosko Ristic. For 122, against 26, 35, a total of 183 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has elected Dragan Lekovic as the District Court judge in Kragujevac. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Predrag Dimitrijevic, whose candidacy was challenged by the MPs Miodrag Djidic and Vjerica Rade, as the judge of the Municipal Court in Leskovic. For three, against 156, two abstentions, were not voted 22, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Predrag Dimitrijevic as Judge of the Municipal Court in Leskovec. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Nevena Mitic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration and People's MPs Miodrag Djidic and Vjerica Radet, as the judge of the Municipality's Court of Justice. For 19 versus 160, three abstentions were not voted by two, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Neven Mitic as the municipal court judge in Leskovac. I am putting on the vote of the High Council of Justice to elect Zora Jamusakov for the judge of the District Court in Novi Sad, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration, MP of the People's Parliament of the Republic of Rade. 61, against 96, with seven abstentions, did not vote 18, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not choose Zora Jamushakov as judge of the District Court in Novi Sad. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Mirjana Krstic, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Verica Radet, for the Judge of the Municipal Court in Somboro. For 140, against 34, a abstentioned one, was not voted nine, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mirjana Krstic as Judge of the Municipality Court in Sombor. I am putting to the vote the High Council of Justice's proposal to elect Snezhan Vrsajkov, whose candidacy has been challenged by the People's MP, Verica Radet, to judge the Somboro Municipal Court. For 141, against 35, a abstentioned one, was not voted by eight, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Snow Whiteman Vrsakov as judge of the Somboro Municipal Court. I put to the vote the High Council of Justice's proposal to elect Vesna Arlov, whose candidacy was challenged by the People's MP, Verica Radet, as the judge of the District Court in Šapco. For 120, against 33, the two abstentions, were not voted 29, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Vesna Arlov as judge of the District Court in Capco. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Radenko Dražic for the judge of the District Court in Sapac, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Verica Radet. For 128, against 34, they did not vote 22, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Radenka Dražic as judge of the District Court in Sapac. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ivan Lazarevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Miodrag Djidic, as judge of the District Court in Sapac. Against 126, three abstentions, no 55 votes, of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Ivan Lazarevic as judge of the District Court in Šapec. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Oliver Pajic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Miodrag Djidic, as judge of the District Court in Sapac. For 135, against three, with two abstentions, did not vote 43, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Oliver Pajic as the District Court judge in Sapac. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Aleksandra Janjetovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the MPs Miodrag Djidic and Vjerica Radet, as the judge of the Municipal Court in Sapac. For 18, against 141, two abstentions, not 22, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Aleksandra Janjetovic as the municipal court judge in Sapac. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Leposava Ralic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Miodrag Djidic, as the judge of the Municipal Court in Sapac. For two, against 118, with four abstentions, 57 of the 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not choose Leposava Ralic as the judge of the Municipal Court in Šapec. I am putting forward a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Mladen Nikolic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Miodrag Djidic, as judge of the Trade Court in Belgrade. For 105, against 25, with three abstentions, there were no 48 votes, out of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mladen Nikolic as judge of the Trade Court in Belgrade. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the motion for a decision, i.e. other undeniable proposals, in general. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, without a proposal for the election of Dragan Jovanovic as judge of the Municipal Court in Krusevec and Mr Ilija Zindovic as judge of the Trade Court in the Kingdom and without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. For 146, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 34, out of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to elect judges, without a proposal to elect Dragan Jovanovic to judge the Municipal Court in Krusevec and Mr Ilija Zindovic for the Court of Commerce in the Kingdom and without the disputed proposals the National Assembly has previously declared. Let me congratulate the elected judges on your behalf and wish me success in my work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - THE CHOICE AND THE NAME OF THE PRESIDENT AND THE MEMBER STATES OF THE ORGAN AND THE BODY OF THE STRENGTH LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on proposals for the election and appointment of presidents and members of the bodies established by law, we move to a decision. First, we will vote on a proposal for a decision to elect a president and a member of the Securities Committee. We approach the vote on the amendment to the draft decision. At point I of the motion for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Committee on Charters of the Value of Amendments was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 100, against 32, a abstentioned one, did not vote five, of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Since we have completed our decision on the amendment, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Securities Commission as a whole. For 91, against 32, with 10 abstentions, two of 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to elect a president and a member of the Securities Commission. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the elected president and members of the Securities Commission. We move to a decision on candidates for the election of members of the Republic Committee to resolve conflicts of interest, from a list submitted by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 19(2). The Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Public Functions, the National Assembly elects five members of the Republic Committee, from a list containing 10 candidates. I remind you that the following candidates are proposed: Academy member Vasilija Krestic, correspondent SANU member Borislav Jovanovic, post member SANU Bogdan Đuričić, correspondent member SANU Vojislav Stanovčić, correspondent member SANU Nikola Janković, correspondent member SANU Vidojko Jović, Dragan Radojčić, director of the Ethnographic Institute SANU, Dragan Uskoković, director of the Institute of Technical Sciences SANU, Professor Ljubinko Radenković, director of the Balkan Institute SANU and Ivan Draganić, scientist from the field of physical chemistry in retirement. We will vote on each candidate on the list individually, and candidates who received most of the votes of the MPs present and at the same time the largest number of votes have been elected. We're approaching the vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect an academic of Vasilija Krestic as member of the Republic Committee on Conflict of Interest. For 88, against 57, 34 of the 179 MPs did not vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect a member of the Republic Committee on Conflict of Interests to be a post member of SANU Borislav Jovanovic. For 87, against 13, 25 abstentions, 54 of the 179 MPs did not vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect a member of the Republic Committee for Dispute Resolution of Interests by letter member SANU Bogdan Đuričić. For 9, against one, with an abstention of 78, 90 of the 178 MPs did not vote. I would like to put the motion to elect a member of the Republic Committee for Dispute Resolution of Interests by letter member SANU Vojislav Stanovic. For 121 against four, the abstentioned three did not vote 52, a total of 180 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect a member of the Republic Committee on Conflict of Interests to be a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts Nikola Jankovic. For 98, with 28 abstentions, 53 of the 179 MPs did not vote. I am voting on a proposal to elect a member of the Republic Committee on Conflict of Interests to be a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, Vidojko Jovic. For the 18 abstentions of 31, 129 of the 178 MPs did not vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dragan Radojčić, director of the Ethnographic Institute of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts as a member of the Republic Committee on Conflict of Interests. 55, a total of 179 MPs did not vote for 124. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dragan Uskoković, director of the Institute of Technical Sciences of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts as a member of the Republic Committee on Conflict of Interests. For 43, with six abstentions, 128 of the 177 MPs did not vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Ljubinko Radenkovic, director of the Balkan Institute of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts as a member of the Republic Committee on Conflict of Interest. For 122, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 55, out of 178 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ivan Draganic, a scientist in the field of physical chemistry retired as a member of the Republic Committee on Conflict of Interest. For 46, a abstentioned one, did not vote 133, out of 180 MPs. As a result of the vote, I find that candidates who received most of the votes of the members of the Republic's Committee on Conflict of Interest have been elected and, at the same time, the largest number of votes: a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts Vojislav Stanovčić, a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts Nikola Jankovic, Dragana Radojčić, director of the Ethnographic Institute of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts and Professor Ljubinko Radenkovic, director of the Balkan Institute of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts. Let me congratulate you and your chosen members of the Republic Committee on the conflict of interest on the election in your name. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, at a session on 19 August 2004, at 12.40 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 79. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 45, against 98, a abstentioned one, did not vote 36, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, at a session on 19 August 2004, at 12.40 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 163(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 46, no 34 voted against 103, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, at a session on 19 August 2004, at 16:25 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 135. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 41, against 97, 44, a total of 182 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, at a session on 19 August 2004, said at 16.35 p.m., that the president of the National Assembly injured the Rules of Procedure by not having immediately put her request to vote for the National Assembly to decide whether she wanted to continue the work and without the report of the Finance Committee. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 43, against 101, a abstentioned one, was not voted 38, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. (The session is closed in 15.30 minutes. ( ) 11. THE SESSION OF THE 24th August 2004 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 3:30 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
